<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would like to thank Senator ROBB. He is truly one of the most honorable individuals I have ever met in my life. I thank him. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President I want to voice my strong objection to the process by which this legislation is being passed by the Senate. The Omnibus Appropriations conference report--containing numerous other pieces of unrelated legislation--is being passed by the Senate tonight under a consent agreement that was entered suddenly by the Majority Leader without the normal notification process. We should have had a recorded vote. Since I first came to the Senate 9 years ago I have felt that it does the Senate no credit to pass such significant budgetary legislation--literally hundreds of billions of dollars--without a recorded vote. We cannot be held accountable as Senators to our constituents when such bills are passed in this manner. I want to make it clear; I oppose this legislation and I would like the RECORD to show that I would have voted no had there been a recorded vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it is my understanding that we are now in debate on the bankruptcy bill; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I yield myself, from Senator LEAHY's time, 30 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am sorry, I have my own time. 
   Mr. President, 
   The proponents of this bill argue that people file because they want to get out of their obligations, because they're untrustworthy, because they're dishonest, because there is no stigma in filing for bankruptcy. 
   But any look at the data tells you otherwise. We know that in the vast majority of cases it is a drastic step taken by families in desperate financial circumstances and overburdened by debt. The main income earner may have lost his or her job. There may be sudden illness or a terrible accident requiring medical care. 
   Specifically we know that nearly half of all debtors report that high medical costs forced them into bankruptcy--this is an especially serious problem for the elderly. But when you think about it, a medical crisis can be a double financial whammy for any family. First there are the high costs associated with treatment of serious health problem. Costs that may not be fully covered by insurance, and certainly the over 30 million Americans without health insurance are especially vulnerable. But a serious accident or illness may disable--at least for a time--the primary wage earner in the household. Even if it isn't the person who draws the income, a parent may have to take significant time to care for a sick or disabled child. Or a son or daughter may need to care for an elderly parent. This means a loss in income. It means more debt and the inability to pay that debt. 
   Are people overwhelmed with medical debt or sidelined by illness deadbeats? This bill assumes they are. For example, it would force them into credit counseling before they could file--as if a serious illness or disability is something that can be counseled away.  
   Women single filers are now the largest group in bankruptcy, and are one third of all filers. They are also the fastest growing. Since 1981, the number of women filing alone increased by more than 700 percent. A woman single parent has a 500 percent greater likelihood of filing for bankruptcy than the population generally. Single women with children often earn far less than single men aside for the difficulties and costs of raising children alone. Divorce is also a major factor in bankruptcy. Income drops, women, again, are especially hard hit. They may not have worked prior to the divorce, and now have custody of the children. 
   Are single women with children deadbeats? This bill assumes they are. The new nondischargeability of credit card debt will hit hard those women who use the cards to tide them over after a divorce until their income stabilizes. And the ``safe harbor'' in the conference report which proponents argue will shield low and moderate income debtors from the means test will not benefit many single mothers who need help the most because it is based on the combined income of the debtor and the debtor's spouse, even if they are separated, the spouse is not filing for bankruptcy, and the spouse is providing no support for the debtor and her children. In other words, a single mother who is being deprived of needed support from a well-off spouse is further harmed by this bill, which will deem the full income of that spouse available to pay debts for determination of whether the safe harbor and means test applies. 
   Mr. President, you will hear my colleagues talk about high economic growth and low unemployment and wonder how so many people could be in circumstances that would require them to file for bankruptcy. Well, the rosy statistics mask what has been modest real wage growth at the same time the debt burden on many families has skyrocketed. And it also masks what has been real pain in certain industries and certain communities as the economies restructure. Even temporary job loss may be enough to overwhelm a family that carries significant loans and often the reality is that a new job may be at a lower wage level--making a previously manageable debt burden unworkable. 
   So what does this bill do to keep people who undergo these wrenching experiences out of bankruptcy? Nothing. Zero. Tough luck. Instead, this conference report just makes the fresh start of bankruptcy harder to achieve. But this doesn't change anyone's circumstances, this doesn't change the fact that these folks no longer earn enough to sustain their debt. Mr. President, there is not one thing in this so called bankruptcy reform bill that would promote economic security in working families. 
   When you push the rhetoric aside, one thing becomes clear: The bankruptcy system is a critical safety net for working families in this country. It is a difficult demoralizing process, but for nearly all who decide to file, it means the difference between a financial disaster being temporary or permanent. The repercussions of tearing that safety net asunder will be tremendous, but the authors of the bill remain deaf to the chorus of protest and indignation that is beginning to swell as ordinary Americans and members of Congress begin to understand that bankrupt 
   Americans are much like themselves--are exactly like themselves--and that they are only one layoff, one medical bill, one predatory loan away from joining the ranks. 
   For the debtor and his family the benefit of bankruptcy--despite the embarrassment, despite the humiliation of acknowledging financial failure--is obvious, to get out from crushing debt, to be able to once again attempt to live within one's means, to concentrate one's income on clear priorities such as food, housing and transportation. But it is also the fundamental principles of a just society to ensure that financial mistakes or unexpected circumstances do not mean banishment forever from productive society. 
   The ``fresh start'' that is under attack here in the Senate today is nothing less than a critical safety net that protects America's working families. As Sullivan Warren and Westbrook put it in ``The Fragile Middle Class'':  
   Bankruptcy is a handhold for middle class debtors on the way down. These families have suffered economic dislocation, but the ones that file for bankruptcy have not given up. They have not uprooted their families and drifted from town to town in search of work. They have not gone to the underground economy, working for cash and saying off the books. Instead, these are middle class people fighting to stay where they are, trying to find a way to cope with their declining economic fortunes. Most have come to realize that their incomes will never be the same as they once were. As their comments show, they realize they can live on $30,000 or $20,000 or even $10,000. But they cannot do that and meet the obligations that they ran up while they were making much more. When put to a choice between paying credit card debt and mortgage debt, between dealing with a dunning notice from Sears and putting groceries on the table, they will go to the bankruptcy courts, declare themselves failures, and save their future income for their mortgage and their groceries.  
   I say to my colleagues, there may be many different standards that different members have for bringing legislation to the floor of the United States Senate. We come from different backgrounds, we come from different states, we have different philosophies about the role of government in society. We have differing priorities. But for God's sake, there should be one principle that all of us can get behind and that is that we should do no harm here in our work in America's working families. 
   That's what is at stake here. This is a debate about priorities. This is a debate about what side you're on. This is a debate about who you stand with. Will you stand with the big banks and the credit card companies or will you stand with working families, with seniors, with single women with children, with African Americans and hispanics. 
   But I would say to my colleagues on the floor of the United States Senate today that this is not a debate about winners and losers. Because we all lose if we erode the middle class in this country. We all lose if we take away some of the critical underpinnings that shore up our working families. Sure, in the short run big banks and credit card companies may pad their profits, but in the long run our families will be less secure, our entrepreneurs will become more risk adverse and less entrepreneurial. 
   How so? Well this how a Georgia Congressman described the issue in 1841:  
   Many of those who become a victim to the reverses are among the most high-spirited and liberal-minded men of the country--men who build up your cities, sustain your benevolent institutions, open up new avenues to trade, and pour into channels before unfilled the tide of capital.  
   This is still true today. 
   This isn't a debate about reducing the high number of bankruptcies. No way will this legislation do that. Indeed, by rewarding the reckless lending that got us here in the first place we will see more consumers overburdened with debt. 
   No, this is a debate about punishing failure. Whether self inflicted or uncontrolled and unexpected. This is a debate about punishing failure. And if there is one that this country has learned, punishing failure doesn't work. You need to correct mistakes, prevent abuse. But you also need to lift people up when they've stumbled, not beat them down. 
   Of course, what the Congress is poised to do here with this bill is even worse within the context of this Congress. This is a Congress that has failed to address skyrocketing drug costs for seniors, this is a Congress that has failed to enact a Patients' Bill of Rights much less give all Americans access to affordable health care. This is a Congress that does not invest in education, that does not invest in affordable child care. This a Congress that has yet to raise the minimum wage. 
   But instead, we declare war on America's working families with this bill. 
   What is clear is that this bill will be a death of a thousand cuts for all debtors regardless of whether the means test applies. There are numerous provisions in the bankruptcy reform bill designed to raise the 
   cost of bankruptcy, to delay its protection, to reduce the opportunity for a fresh start. But rather than falling the heaviest on the supposed rash of wealthy abusers of the code, they will fall hardest on low and middle income families who desperately need the safety net of bankruptcy. 
   I want to take some time to talk about the effect this bill will have on low and middle class debtors. Remember, nearly all debtors who file for bankruptcy are not wealthy scofflaws,  but rather people in desperate economic circumstances who file as a last resort to try and rebuild their finances, and, in many cases, end harassment by their creditors. And in particular I want to remind my colleagues of the May 15, 2000 issue of Time magazine whose cover story on this so-called bankruptcy reform legislation was entitled ``Soaked by Congress.'' 
   The article, written by reporters Don Bartlett and Jim Steele, is a detailed look at the true picture of who files for bankruptcy in America. You will find it far different from the skewed version being used to justify this legislation. The article carefully documents how low and middle income families--increasingly households headed by single women--will be denied the opportunity of a ``fresh start'' if this punitive legislation is enacted. As Brady Williamson, the Chairman of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, notes in the article, the bankruptcy bill would condemn many working families to ``what essentially is a life term in debtor's prison.'' 
   Now proponents of this legislation have tried to refute the Time magazine article. Indeed during these final days of debate you will hear the bill's supporters claim that low and moderate income debtors will be unaffected by this legislation. But colleagues, if you listen carefully to their statements you will hear that they only claim that such debtors will not be affected by the bill's means tests. Not only is that claim demonstrably false--the means test and the safe harbor have been written in a way that will capture many working families who are filing for Chapter 7 relief in good faith--but it ignores the vast majority of this legislation which will impose needless hurdles and punitive costs on all families who file for bankruptcy regardless of their income. Nor does the safe harbor apply to any of these provisions! 
   You might ask why the Congress has chosen to come down so hard on ordinary working folk down on their luck. How is it that this bill is so skewed against their interests and in favor of big banks and credit card companies? Maybe that's because these families don't have million-dollar lobbyists representing them before Congress. They don't give hundreds of thousands of dollars in soft money to the Democratic and Republican parties. They don't spend their days hanging outside the Senate chamber waiting to bend a Member's ear. Unfortunately it looks like the industry got to us first. 
   They may have lost a job, they may be struggling with a divorce, maybe there are unexpected medical bills. But you know what? They are busy trying to turn their lives around. And I think it is shameful that at the same time this story is unfolding for a million families across America, Congress is poised to make it harder for them to turn it around. Who do we represent? 
   I want to take a few minutes to explain exactly what the effects of this bill will be on real life debtors--the folks profiled in the Time article. I hope the authors of the bill will come to the floor to debate on these points. There could be the opportunity for some real progress on an issue that has yet to be addressed by the bill's supporters. Specifically, I challenge them to come to the floor and explain to their colleagues how making bankruptcy relief harder and much more costly to achieve will benefit working families. 
   Charles and Lisa Trapp were forced into bankruptcy by medical problems. Their daughter's medical treatment left them with medical debts well over $100,000, as well as a number of credit card debts. Because of her daughter's degenerative condition, Ms. Trapp had to leave her job as a letter carrier about two months before the bankruptcy case was filed to manage her daughter's care. Before she left her job, the family's annual income was about $83,000, or about $6900 per month, so under the bill, close to that amount, about $6200, the average monthly income for the previous six months, would be deemed to be their current monthly income, even though their gross monthly income at the time of filing was only $4800. Based on this fictitious deemed income, the Trapps would have been presumed to be abusing the Bankruptcy Code, since their allowed expenses under the IRS guidelines and secured debt payments amounted to $5339. The difference of about $850 per month would have been deemed available to pay unsecured debts and was over the $167 per month triggering a presumption of abuse. The Trapps would have had to submit detailed documentation to rebut this presumption, trying to show that their income should be adjusted downward because of special circumstances and that there was no reasonable alternative to Ms. Trapp leaving her job. 
   Because their ``current monthly income,'' although fictitious, was over the median income, the family would have been subject to motions for ``abuse'' filed by creditors, who might argue that Ms. Trapp should not have left her job, and that the Trapps should have tried to pay their debts in chapter 13. They also would not have been protected by the safe harbor. The Trapps would have had to pay their attorney to defend 
   such motions and if they could not have afforded the thousand dollars or more that this would have cost, their case would have been dismissed and they would have received no bankruptcy relief. If they prevailed on the motion, it is very unlikely they could recover attorney's fees from a creditor who brought the motion, since recovery of fees is permitted only if the creditor's motion was frivolous and could not arguably be supported by any reasonable interpretation of the law (a much weaker standard than the original Senate bill.) Because the means test is so vague and ambiguous, and creditor could argue that it was simply making a good faith attempt to apply the means test, which after all created a presumption of abuse. 
   Of course, young Annelise Trapp's medical problems continue and are only getting worse. Under current law, if the Trapps again amass medical and other debts they can't pay, they could seek refuge in chapter 13 where they would be required to pay all that they could afford. Under the new bill, the Trapps could not file a chapter 13 case for five years. Even then, their payments would be determined by the IRS expense standards and they would have to stay in their plan for 5 years, rather than the 3 years required by current law. The time for filing a new chapter 7 would also be increased by the bill, from 6 years to 8 years. 
   Not only does the majority leader want to ram through bankruptcy legislation on the State Department authorization conference report, which he has literally hijacked for that purpose, there is no question that this is a significantly worse legislation than what passed the Senate. In fact, there is no pretending that this is a bill designed to curb real abuse of the bankruptcy code. 
   Does this bill take on wealthy debtors who file frivolous claims and shield their assets in multi million dollar mansions? No, it guts the cap on the homestead exemption adopted by the Senate. I ask my colleagues who support this bill: how can you claim that this bill is designed to crack down on wealthy scoff laws without closing the massive homestead loophole that exists in five states, and in a bill that falls so harshly on the backs of low and moderate income individuals? 
   I wonder how my colleagues who vote for this conference report will explain this back home. How will they explain that they supported letting wealthy debtors shield their assets from creditors at the same time that voted to end the practice under current law of stopping eviction proceedings against tenants who are behind on rent who file for bankruptcy. With one hand we gut tenants rights, with the other we shield wealthy homeowners. 
   Nor does this bill contain another amendment offered by Senator SCHUMER and adopted by the Senate that would prevent violators of the Fair Access to Clinic entrances Act--which protects women's health clinics--from using the bankruptcy system to walk away from their punishment. Again, I thought the sponsors of the measure wanted to crack down on people who game the system. What could be a bigger misuse of the system then to use the bankruptcy code to get out of damages imposed because you committed an act of violence against a women's health clinic? 
   And yet the secret conferees on his bill simply walked away. They walked away from the real opportunity to prohibit an abuse that all sides recognize exist, but they also walked away from an opportunity to protect women from  harassment. They walked away from the opportunity to protect women from violence. 
   So why shouldn't people be cynical about this process? Ever since bankruptcy reform was passed by the Senate this bill has gotten less balanced, less fair, and more punitive--but only for low and moderate income debtors. So again, I would say to my colleagues, this bill is a question of our priorities. Will we stand with wealthy dead beats or will we take a stand to protect women seeking reproductive health services from harassment? 
   But unfortunately, these were not the only areas where the shadow conferees beat a retreat from balance and fairness. 
   You know, a lot of folks must be watching the progress of this bankruptcy bill over the course of this year with awe and envy. Can my colleagues name one other bill that the leadership has worked so hard and with such determination to move by any and all means necessary? Certainly not an increase in the minimum wage. Certainly not a meaningful prescription drug benefit for seniors, certainly not the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. On many issues, on most issues, this has been a do nothing Congress. But on so-called bankruptcy reform, the Senate and House leadership can't seem to do enough! 
   One can only wonder what we could have accomplished for working families if the leadership had the same determination on other issues. Unfortunately those other issues did have the financial services industry behind it. And you have to give them credit--no pun intended--over the past couple of years they have played the Congress like a violin. And what do you know, here we are trying to ram through this bankruptcy bill in the 11th hour as the 106th Congress draws to a close. 
   In reading the consumer credit industry's propaganda one would think the story of bankruptcy in America is one of large numbers of irresponsible, high income borrowers and their conniving attorney using the law to take advantage of naive and overly trusting lenders. 
   As it turns out, that picture of debtors is almost completely inaccurate. The number of bankruptcies has fallen steadily over the past months, charge offs (defaults on credit cards) are down and delinquencies have fallen to the lowest levels since 1995, and now all sides agree that nearly all debtors resort to bankruptcy not to game the system but rather as a desperate measure of economic survival. 
   It also turns out that the innocence of lenders in the admittedly still high numbers of bankruptcies has also been--to be charitable--overstated. 
   As high cost debt, credit cards, retail charge cards, and financing plans for consumer goods have skyrocketed in recent years, so have the number of bankruptcy filings. As the consumer credit industry has begun to aggressively court the poor and the vulnerable, bankruptcies have risen. Credit card companies brazenly dangle literally billions of card offers to high debt families every year. They encourage card holders to make low payments toward their card balances, guaranteeing that a few hundred dollars in clothing or food will take years to pay off. The lengths that companies go to keep their customers in debt is ridiculous. 
   In the interest of full disclosure--something that the industry itself isn't very good at--I would like my colleagues to be aware of what the consumer credit industry is practicing even as it preaches the sermon of responsible borrowing. After all, debt involves a borrower and a lender; poor choices or irresponsible behavior by either party can make the transaction go sour. 
   So how responsible has the industry been? I suppose that it depends on how you look at it. On the one hand, consumer lending is terrifically profitable, with high cost credit card lending the most profitable of all (except perhaps for even higher costs credit like payday loans). So I guess by the standard of responsibility to the bottom line they have done a good job. 
   On the other hand, if you define responsibility as promoting fiscal health among families, educating on judicious use of credit, ensuring that borrowers do not go beyond their means, then it is hard to imagine how the financial services industry could be bigger deadbeats. 
   According the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, the amount of revolving credit outstanding--i.e. the amount of open ended credit (like credit cards) being extended--increased seven times during 1980 and 1995. And between 1993 and 1997, during the sharpest increases in the bankruptcy filings, the amount of credit card debt doubled. Doesn't sound like lenders were too concerned about the high number of bankruptcies--at least it didn't stop them from pushing high cost credit like candy. 
   Indeed, what do credit card companies do in response to ``danger signals'' from a customer that they may be in over their head. According to ``The Fragile Middle Class'' an in depth study of who files for bankruptcy and why, the company's reaction isn't what you would think. 
   In other words, those folks who may have come into your office this year or last year talking about how they needed protection from customers who walked away from debts, who thought Congress 
   should mandate credit counseling--to promote responsible money management--as a requirement for seeking bankruptcy protection, who argued that reform of the bankruptcy code is needed because of decline in the stigma of bankruptcy have been pouring gasoline on the flames the whole time. Of course, in the end, if this bill passes, it's working families who get burned. 
   But guess what? It gets even worse, because the consumer finance industry isn't just reckless in its lending habits, big name lenders all too often break or skirt the law in both marketing and collection. 
   For example: 
   In June of this year the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency reached a settlement with Providian Financial Corporation in which Providian agreed to pay at least $300 million to its customers to compensate them for using deceptive marketing tactics. Among these were baiting customers with ``no annual fees'' but then charging an annual fee unless the customer accepted the $156 credit protection program (coverage which was itself deceptively marketed). The company also misrepresented the savings their customers would get from transferring account balances from another card. 
   In 1999, Sears, Roebuck & Co. paid $498 million in settlement damages and $60 million in fines for illegally coercing reaffirmations--agreements with borrowers to repay debt--from its cardholders. But apparently this is just the cost of doing business: Bankruptcy judges in California, Vermont, and New York have claimed that Sears is still up to its old strong arm tactics, but is now using legal loopholes to avoid disclosure. Now colleagues, Sears is a creditor in one third of all personal bankruptcies. And by the way, this legislation contains provisions that would have protected Sears from paying back any monies that customers were tricked into paying under these plans. 
   This July, North American Capital Corp., a subsidiary of GE, agreed to pay a $250,000 fine to settle charges brought by the Federal Trade Commission that the company had violated the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act by lying to and harassing customers during collections. 
   In October 1998, the Department of Justice brought an antitrust suit against VISA and Mastercard, the two largest credit card associations, charging them with illegal collusion that reduced competition and made credit cards more expensive for borrowers. 
   These are just a few examples, I could go on and on. At a minimum, these illegal and unscrupulous practices rob honest creditors who play by the rules of repayment. And the cost to debtors and other creditors alike are tremendous. 
   But other practices are not illegal, merely unsavory. 
   Let me repeat myself in case my colleagues somehow missed the blatant hypocrisy of what's going on here: The big banks and credit card companies are pushing to rig the system so that you cannot file for bankruptcy unless you perform credit counseling at the same time that they are jeopardizing the health the credit counseling industry and making it significantly more costly for debtors.  
   That is pretty brazen, but as my colleagues will hear over and over in this debate, this isn't just an industry that wants to have it both ways, it wants to have it several different ways. 
   Of course, these are mild abuses compared to predatory lending. Schemes such as payday loans, car title pawns, and home equity loan 
   scams harm tens of thousands of more Americans on top of those shaken down by the mainstream creditors. Such operators often target those on the economic fringe like the working poor and the recently bankrupt. They even claim to be performing a public service: providing loans to the uncreditworthy. It just also happens to be obscenely profitable to overwhelm vulnerable borrowers with debt at usurious rates of interest. Hey, who said good deeds don't get rewarded? 
   Reading this conference report makes it clear who has the clout in Washington. There is not one provision in this bill that holds the consumer credit industry truly responsible for their lending habits. My colleagues talk about the message they want to send to deadbeat debtors, that bankruptcy will no longer be a ``free ride'' to a clean slate. Well what message does this bill send to the banks, and the credit card companies? The message is clear: make risky loans, discourage savings, promote excess, and Congress will bail you out by letting you be more coercive in your collections, by putting barriers in between your customers and bankruptcy relief, and by ensuring that the debtor will emerge from bankruptcy with his vassalage to you intact. This is in stark contrast to the numerous punitive provisions of the bill aimed at borrowers. 
   The record is clear: lenders routinely discourage healthy borrowing practices, encourage excessive indebtedness and impose barriers to paying of debt all in the name of padding their profits. It would be a bitter irony if Congress were to reward big banks, credit card companies, retailers and other lenders for their bad behavior, but that exactly what passage of bankruptcy reform legislation would do. 
   I would characterize the debate like this and make it very simple for my colleagues. This is fundamentally a referendum on Congress' priorities and you simply need to ask yourself: whose side am I on? Am I on the side of the working families who need a financial fresh start because they are overburdened with debt? Am I for preserving this critical safety net for the middle class? Will I stand with the civil rights community, and religious community, and the women's community, and consumer groups and the labor unions who fight for ordinary Americans and who oppose this bill? 
   Or will you stand with the credit card companies, and the big banks, and the auto lenders who desperately want this bill to pad their profits? I hope the choice will be clear to colleagues. 
   Let me say a few words about the process on this legislation, which is terrible. The House and Senate Republicans have taken a secretly negotiated bankruptcy bill and stuffed it into the State Department authorization bill in which not one provision of the original bill remains. Of course, State Department authorization is the last of many targets. The majority leader has talked about doing this on an appropriations bill, on a crop insurance bill, on the electronic signatures bill, on the Violence Against Women Act. So disparate are we to serve the big banks and credit card companies that no bill has been safe from this controversial baggage. 
   We are again making a mockery of scope of conference. We are abdicating our right to amend legislation. We are abdicating our right to debate legislation. And for what? Expediency. Convenience. 
   However, I am not sure that we have ever been so brazen in the past. Yes we have combined unrelated, extraneous measures into conference reports. Usually because the majority wishes to pass one bill using the popularity of another. Putting it into a conference report makes it privileged. Putting into a conference report makes it unamenable. So they piggy back legislation. Fine. But this may be the first time in the Senate's history where the majority has hollowed out a piece of legislation in conference--left nothing behind but the bill number--and inserted a completely unrelated measure. 
   I challenge my colleagues to walk into any high school civics class room in America and explain this process. Explain this new way that a bill becomes law. What the majority has essentially done is started down the road toward a virtual tricameral legislature--House, Senate, and conference committee. But at least the House and the Senate have the power under the constitution to amend legislation passed by the other house--measures adopted by the all-powerful conference committee are not amendable. 
   Is bankruptcy reform so important that we should weaken the integrity of the Senate itself? It is not. I question whether any legislation is that important, but to make such a blatant mockery of the legislative process on a bill that is going to be vetoed anyway? That is effectively dead? Just to make a political point? What have we come to? 
   This is a game to the majority. The game is how to move legislation through the Senate with as little interference as possible from actual Senators. 
   I remind my colleagues of what Senator KENNEDY said 4 years ago when the Senate voted to gut rule XXVIII, the Senate rule limiting the scope of conference which we are violating with this conference report. Speaking very prophetically he said:  
   The rule that a conference committee cannot include extraneous matter is central to the way that the Senate conducts its business. When we send a bill to conference we do so knowing that the conference committee's work is likely to become law. Conference reports are privileged. Motions to proceed to them cannot be debated, and such reports cannot be amended. So conference committees are already very powerful. But if conference committees are permitted to add completely extraneous matters in conference, that is, if the point of order against such conduct becomes a dead letter, conferees will acquire unprecedented power. They will acquire the power to legislate in a privileged, unreviewable fashion on virtually any subject. They will be able to completely bypass the deliberative process of the Senate. Mr. President, this is a highly dangerous situation. It will make all of us less willing to send bills to conference and leave all of us vulnerable to passage of controversial, extraneous legislation any time a bill goes to conference. I hope the Senate will not go down this road. Today the narrow issue is the status of one corporation under the labor laws. But tomorrow the issue might be civil rights, States' rights, health care, education, or anything else. It might be a matter much more sweeping than the labor law issue that is before us today.  
   He was absolutely right. We are headed down that slippery slope he described. For the last three years we have handled appropriations in this manner. We have combined bills, the text is written by a small group of Senators and Congressmen and these bills have been presented to the Senate as an up or down proposition. And now we're doing it with so-called bankruptcy reform. 
   Conference reports are privileged. It is very difficult for a minority in the Senate to stop a conference report as they can with other legislation. That is why these conference reports are being used in this way, and that is why the rules are supposed to restrict their scope. 
   Last year, Senator DASCHLE attempted to reinstate rule 28 on the Senate floor. He was voted down, and he spoke specifically about how we have corrupted the legislative process in the Senate:  
   I wish this had been a one time event. Unfortunately, it happens over and over and over. It is a complete emasculation of the process that the Founding Fathers had set up. It has nothing to do with the legislative process. If you were to write a book on how a bill becomes a law, you would need several volumes. In fact, if the consequences were not so profound, some could say that you would need a comic book because it is hilarious to look at the lengths we have gone to thwart and undermine and, in an extraordinary way, destroy a process that has worked so well for 220 years.  
   So where does it stop? As long as the majority want to avoid debate, as long as the majority wants to avoid amendments and as long as Senators will go along to get along we will find ourselves forced to cast up or down votes on legislation--a rubber stamp yes or no--with no ability to actually legislate. 
   Each Senator who today votes for this conference report should know they may find themselves in the majority today, they may be OK with letting this bill go because they are not offended by what it contains, but be forewarned, the day will come when you  will be on the other side of this tactic. Today it is bankruptcy reform, but someday you will be the one protesting the inclusion of a provision that you believe is outrageous. 
   Regardless of the merits of bankruptcy reform, this is a terrible process. I would urge my colleagues to vote no to send a message to the leadership. Send a message that you want your rights as Senators back. 
   Finally, I end on this note. I think many in this body believe that a society is judged by its treatment of its most vulnerable members. By that standard, this is an exceptionally rough bill in what has been a very rough Congress. All the consumer groups oppose this bill, 31 organizations devoted to women and children's issues oppose this legislation. 
   There is no doubt in my mind that this is a bad bill. It punishes the vulnerable and rewards the big banks and credit card companies for their own poor practices. And this legislation has only gotten worse in the sham conference. 
   Earlier, I used the word ``injustice'' to describe this bill--and that is exactly right. It will be a bitter irony if creditors are able to use a crisis--largely of their own making--to convince Congress to decrease borrower's access to bankruptcy relief. I hope my colleagues reject this scheme and reject this bill. 
   Mr. President, I will not repeat what I said yesterday at the beginning of this debate. I will respond to some comments that were made on the floor dealing with chapter 12. 
   Some of my colleagues have talked about chapter 12 farmers' bankruptcy relief, and they have made the argument that opposition to this bankruptcy bill has really held up chapter 12, which is very important for protection of family farmers. I point out to colleagues that it is precisely the opposite case. 
   A year ago when it first became clear that this bankruptcy bill, for very good reasons, was not going to move forward, under the able leadership of Senators and Representatives--Senators such as Senator GRASSLEY--legislation was introduced and passed which extended chapter 12 bankruptcy protection for farmers. Within about 20 days, it was signed by the White House and passed. No problem. 
   This past summer, in June, the House passed an extension, but for some reason the majority leader took no action over here. Then in October, the House passed a 1-year extension for chapter 12 for family farmers. Again, the majority leader took no action over here. 
   This can pass within 24 hours. What we have here is a bit of a game going on where chapter 12 becomes held hostage to a bankruptcy bill with many harsh features which will be vetoed by the President and, in my view, either the veto will be sustained or we will not be here and it will be pocket vetoed and it will not become law and should not become law. 
   But let me be clear. Chapter 12, the bankruptcy relief for family farmers, can be passed separately within a day or two. It is not a problem. So no one from any ag State should believe that somehow you have to vote for a harsh piece of legislation, that targets the most vulnerable citizens, that is completely one sided, that calls for no accountability from credit card companies or larger banks, in order to get bankruptcy relief for family farmers. It is just simply not true. 
   The proponents of this bill have argued--they have been pretty explicit about this--that often the people who are filing for chapter 7 do so because they want to get out of their obligations, because they are untrustworthy, because they are dishonest, and because they sort of feel no stigma in filing for bankruptcy. 
   I would, one more time, like to point out on the floor of the Senate that about 50 percent of the people who file for chapter 7 do so because of major medical bills that have put them under. Quite often, it becomes a double whammy: Either you not only are faced with a major medical bill that puts your family under--we have not done anything to help our families afford health care--or, which is the double whammy, you cannot work because you are the one who is ill, in which case you lose your income, or it can be a loved one who is faced with a serious illness or disabling injury and you are the one who takes care of them, in which case, again, you can lose your job and your income. 
   So I do not really think we ought to be viewing families who file chapter 7 because of major medical bills as dishonest or untrustworthy. 
   Now the largest single group of those citizens who file for bankruptcy are women. They are one-third of all the filers. They are the fastest growing group. Since 1981, the number of women filing alone increased by more than 700 percent. 
   It is not so surprising that single parents--women with children--are among the largest or disproportionate number of people who file for bankruptcy. Because, in addition to medical costs, divorce is a major factor in bankruptcy--income drops--women again are especially hard hit. Many of them have not worked prior to divorce, and now they have custody of the children and find themselves in very difficult financial circumstances. 
   Are single women with children deadbeats? All too much of this bill assumes they are. The new nondischargeability of credit card debt will hit hard those women who use the cards to tide them over after divorce until their income stabilizes. The safe harbor in the conference report, which proponents argue will shield low- and moderate-income debtors from the means test, will not benefit many single mothers who need the help the most because it is based upon the combined income of the debtor and the debtor's spouse, even if they are separated. The spouse is not filing for bankruptcy, and the spouse is providing no support for the debtor or children, but that spouse's income is considered. 
   This piece of legislation does not provide a whole lot of help to many hard-pressed single parents, most of whom are women. 
   I have heard some of my colleagues out here on the floor talking about economic growth, low unemployment, saying: Given this economic performance, how can you have people filing for bankruptcy? Surely, it must be, again, that these are 
   people who feel no stigma. 
   You know what. This rosy picture masks the fact that there is real pain in certain industries, and there are certain communities and certain families under siege. 
   This is a news release from the LTV Corporation, Hoyt Lakes, MN, which had previously announced on May 24, 2000, its intention to close the local mining operation. They were going to close at the end of the summer. Now they have said, in this release, that they are going to cease permanently on February 24, 2001. This is some holiday gift from this company to--I don't know--1,300 or 1,400 miners. These miners and their families wonder what is going to happen to them. These are the kinds of families who all too often find themselves in these difficult economic circumstances, even with this booming economy, and quite often have to file for chapter 7. 
   Are we going to make the argument that these families are without a sense of responsibility? Are we going to make the argument that these families are loafers and they feel no stigma? 
   What does this piece of legislation do to help keep people from having to undergo these wrenching experiences that force them into bankruptcy? Nothing. Zero. Tough luck. The only thing this piece of legislation does is make it harder for people to file bankruptcy, to file chapter 7, to rebuild their lives. 
   We do not do anything to help on health care costs. We do not do anything in terms of dealing with the unfair dumping of steel with a fair trade policy. We do not do anything in terms of passing an Elementary and Secondary Education Act. We do not do anything on affordable housing. We do not raise the minimum wage. We do not do anything to make these families more economically secure. But instead, what we do is we make it difficult for people to rebuild their lives. 
   This is sham reform. When you push the rhetoric aside, one thing becomes clear: The bankruptcy system is a critical safety net for many middle-class, working-class, low-income families. It is a difficult, demoralizing process, but it is a critical safety net for families. And we are tearing up that safety net. 
   I say to my colleagues, there may be many different standards that different Members have when they bring legislation to the floor of the Senate. We  come from different backgrounds. We come from different States. We have different philosophies about the role of Government in society. We have different priorities. But, for God's sake, there should be one principle that all of us can get behind, and that is that we should do no harm to the most vulnerable people and most vulnerable families in this country. 
   I believe strongly--and I have argued yesterday and today--that that is exactly what we are doing. That is what is at stake here. This is a debate about priorities. This is a debate about what side you are on. This is a debate about with whom you stand. Will you stand with the big banks and credit card companies or will you stand with hard-pressed families, with seniors, with single women with children, with African Americans, with Hispanics, with people of color, with consumers? 
   What the Congress is poised to do here with this bill is worse within the context of this Congress because this is a Congress that has failed to address skyrocketing drug costs for seniors; this is a Congress that has failed to pass a Patients' Bill of Rights; this is a Congress that has failed to make sure that Americans have access to affordable health care; this is a Congress that has failed to invest in education; this is a Congress that has failed to invest in affordable child care; this is a Congress that has failed to raise the minimum wage. But instead, with this bill we declare war on working families. 
   What is clear is that this piece of legislation will be a death of a thousand cuts for all debtors regardless of whether the means test applies. 
   There are numerous provisions in the bankruptcy reform bill designed to raise the cost of bankruptcy, to delay its protection, to reduce the opportunity for a fresh start. But rather than falling heaviest on the supposed rash of wealthy abusers of the Code, they will fall hardest on low- and middle-income families who desperately need this safety net of bankruptcy. 
   I commend to my colleagues, but I will not take a lot of time on it, the May 15, 2000, issue of Time magazine whose cover story on so-called bankruptcy reform legislation was entitled ``Soaked by Congress.'' I hope they will read it. 
   I will quote from Brady Williamson, Chairman of the National Bankruptcy Commission. Please remember, 116 law professors in this country who teach bankruptcy law, who do their scholarship in this area, have said this bill is harsh and one-sided, without balance, and should not pass. 
   Brady Williamson, Chairman of the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, notes in the article from Time magazine: The bankruptcy bill would condemn many working families to ``what essentially is a life term in debtors' prison. 
   I will talk a little bit about this piece of legislation in relation to what the Senate passed before. Not only does the majority leader want to ram through bankruptcy legislation on the State Department authorization conference report, which he has literally hijacked for this purpose, there is no question that this is a significantly worse piece of legislation--I heard colleagues yesterday say ``better''--than passed by the Senate. Does this piece of legislation take on wealthy debtors who file frivolous claims and shield their assets in multimillion-dollar mansions? No. It guts the cap on the homestead exemption which was adopted by the Senate. It was taken out in conference. 
   I ask my colleagues who support this bill, how can you claim that this bill is designed to crack down on wealthy scoff laws without closing the massive homestead loophole that exists in five States? And in a bill that falls so harshly on the backs of low- and moderate-income individuals, you have a huge exemption for people who can go buy million-dollar plus mansions. How do you explain that back home? How will you explain that you supported letting wealthy debtors shield their assets from creditors at the same time you voted to end the practice under current law of stopping eviction proceedings against tenants who were behind on rent and who filed for bankruptcy? Poor tenants are evicted. Wealthy people can shield their assets and go buy multimillion-dollar homes. On the one hand, we gut tenants' rights, while on the other hand we shield wealthy homeowners. That is what this piece of legislation is about. 
   Nor does this bill contain another amendment offered by Senator SCHUMER and adopted by the Senate that would prevent violators of the Fair Access to Clinic Entrances Act, which protects women's health clinics, from using the bankruptcy system to walk away from their punishment. 
   Some folks are watching the progress of this bill and they are watching the way this bill has developed over the last year with a considerable amount of awe and envy. Can my colleagues name one other bill on which the leadership has worked so hard and with such determination to move by any and all means necessary? Certainly not an increase in the minimum wage; that is not a priority. Certainly not a meaningful prescription drug benefit for seniors; that is not a priority. Certainly not reauthorization of the Elementary Secondary Education Act. On many issues, on most issues, there has been nothing done in this do-nothing Congress. But on the so-called bankruptcy reform, the Senate and House leadership can't seem to get enough. One can only wonder what we could have accomplished for working families if the leadership had the same determination on these 
   other issues. Unfortunately, those other issues did not have the financial services industry behind them. 
   You have to give them credit, no pun intended. Over the past couple of years, the financial services industry has played this Congress like a violin. And what do you know, we are trying to ram through this bankruptcy bill in the 11th hour as the 106th Congress comes to a close. 
   In reading the consumer credit industry's propaganda, you would think the story of bankruptcy in America is one of large numbers of irresponsible, high-income borrowers and their conniving attorneys using the law to take advantage of naive and overly trusting lenders. As it turns out, that picture of the debtors is almost completely inaccurate. The number of bankruptcies has fallen steadily over the past several months. It turns out that the people about whom we are talking are vulnerable citizens. The major reason is major medical costs. I have made that argument. 
   As high-cost debt, credit cards, retail charge cards and financing plans for consumer goods have skyrocketed in recent years, so have the number of bankruptcy filings. As the consumer credit industry has begun to aggressively court the poor and the vulnerable, bankruptcies have risen. Credit card companies brazenly dangle literally billions of credit card offers to high-debt families every year. There is no accountability for them. They encourage credit card holders to make low payments toward the card balances, guaranteeing that a few $100 in clothing or food will take years to pay off. The lengths these companies go to keep their consumers in debt is ridiculous. 
   So in the interest of full disclosure, something that the industry itself is not very good at, I would like my colleagues to be aware of what the credit card industry is practicing even as it preaches the sermon of responsible borrowing. After all, debt involves a borrower and a lender. Poor choice, irresponsible behavior by either party can make the transaction go sour. So how responsible has the industry been? It depends upon how you look at it. 
   On the one hand, consumer lending is terrifically profitable, with high-cost credit card lending the most profitable of all, except for perhaps even higher cost credit such as payday loans. So I guess by the standard of responsibility to the bottom line, this industry is doing great. 
   On the other hand, if you define responsibility as promoting fiscal health among families, educating on judicious use of credit, ensuring that borrowers do not go beyond their means, then it is hard to imagine how the financial services industry could be bigger deadbeats. 
   From studies from the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, some of the settlements that have been reached with Providian Financial Corporation, Sears & Roebuck, American Capital Corporation, a subsidiary of GE, the Department of Justice brought an antitrust suit against Visa and Mastercard. We have example after example after example of abuses by this industry but  not one word in this piece of legislation that calls for any accountability. 
   In case my colleagues miss the blatant hypocrisy of what is going on here, the big banks and credit card companies are pushing to rig the system so you cannot file for bankruptcy unless you perform credit counseling, at the same time that they are jeopardizing the health of the credit counseling industry by pumping credit cards, by themselves abusing the system, and hardly making it easier for people, only making it more difficult. 
   To make it simple for my colleagues, this debate is fundamentally a referendum on Congress's priorities. You simply need to ask yourself again: Whose side am I on? 
   Are you on the side of working families who need a financially fresh start because they are overburdened with debt? Fifty percent of bankruptcies are because of major medical bills. Are you for preserving this critical safety net for the middle class? Will you stand with the civil rights community and the religious community and the women's community and consumer groups and labor unions who fight for ordinary Americans who oppose this bill or will you stand with the credit card companies and the big banks and the auto lenders who desperately want this bill to pad their profits? 
   I hope there is a clear choice for Senators. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My understanding is that the bill passed with the Schumer provision in it, and it also dealt with the homestead exemption. That is a different bill from the one we are considering right now. Am I not correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First of all, let me say I like my colleague from Iowa so much that I will let his comment about the Clinton recession pass and not respond to that. 
   I also want to make it clear that my use of the word ``hypocrisy'' of course was not aimed at any Senator and certainly not the Senator from Iowa, who I actually really love working with even though we don't agree on all policies. 
   I have to say one more time that there is a lot of hypocrisy in a piece of legislation that on the one hand goes after this percentage and on the other hand in conference committee knocks out an amendment, so that now we have millionaires in a position to be able to shield their money and go buy multimillion-dollar homes in other States. 
   If that is not hypocrisy, I don't know what is. If that doesn't tell you about how lopsided a piece of legislation this is, I don't know what does. 
   I also think it is more than just a little hypocritical to have a piece of legislation that in the main targets the most vulnerable citizens--I have made that point over and over again--with study after study saying that the highest percentage would be 12 percent, probably 3 percent of the people at most ``gaming'' this. 
   People who file for chapter 7 do so because they are in difficult circumstances. Major medical illness puts them under, a divorce, loss of job. 
   But at the same time that we are now going to make it virtually impossible for many families who find themselves in difficult economic circumstances to rebuild their lives, we don't have one word to say by way of demanding some accountability for these credit card companies that push this debt on to people, that send these cards to our kids, that do all the solicitation, that charge exorbitant interest rates, that are reckless in their lending policies. Not a word. Not a word. 
   Could it be these are the people with more clout in the Congress? I fear that is part of the problem. 
   I say to my colleague from Iowa and other Senators, it is simply not the case that most of the people who file for bankruptcy are gaming the system. Let me give a case study which goes to why this bill is so profoundly wrong. LTV is going to shut down. Miners up on the Iron Range are going to be without a job. 
   I know the way this bill works. It is an honest disagreement, but it is a wrong disagreement. If one of these families 2 months from now has a major illness--now they are going to have trouble paying their mortgage--do you know what this bill does? This bill doesn't figure their income in February, after they have been laid off. This bill figures their average income over the prior 6 months, during all the times they were gainfully employed. 
   That is not going to work for these miners, that is not going to work for these hard-pressed working families, and you had better believe I am going to be out here on the Senate floor raising Cain in behalf of these Minnesotans. 
   Finally, let me one more time, before my colleague from Vermont takes the floor, remind all Senators, but especially Democrats: This is the majority leader, I believe, who has made a mockery of the legislative process. We have taken a State Department embassy bill and gutted it. There is not a word left; there is only a number. Instead, you had a bankruptcy bill put in, completely unrelated--never mind rule XXVIII--without the deliberation, without the debate, without the ability offer an amendment. This is not the way we legislate. This is the Senate at its very worst. 
   There may be a different majority 2 years from now. We can do the same thing to the minority. Frankly, it should not be done by anyone. I certainly hope Democrats will vote against this. The minority leader yesterday said he is going to vote against this bill because, he said, it does not meet the standard of fairness. And it does not--not on substance and not on process, not on the basic standard of what the Senate should be about. I hope Senators will vote against this piece of legislation. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My colleague is correct. That is right. Though there is not a word about that. There is nothing left except for the bill number. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Vermont that argument has not been made. So far, that argument has not been made. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, responding to my friend from Iowa, the President has called Senators and for good reason: This is a piece of legislation that has very little balance. 
   I gave the example again of LTV workers in the iron range of Minnesota which is going to shut down in February. One month later, there could be  an illness in a family, a medical bill, the worker no longer has a job and cannot pay the mortgage. 
   Under this piece of legislation, what would be the income that is calculated? Would it be the income of this family with the head of the household unemployed? No. Under this bill, in order to see whether this family could file under chapter 7, you would look over the past 6 months and average out the income all the months he or she was working. But they do not have a job. 
   Most of the people file for chapter 7 because of a major medical bill. It is 50 percent. Only about 3 percent game this system. 
   Now we have a piece of legislation that does not ask the credit card companies to be accountable, does not do anything about their egregious practices, targets the most vulnerable people, and has very little balance. This piece of legislation should be defeated. That is why the President is opposed to it. That is why labor, civil rights, women, children, consumer organizations, all oppose this piece of legislation. I say to my colleagues, it is too harsh. It is without balance. I know there is a powerful economic constituency behind it, but I hope you will vote against it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Illinois. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I submit for the RECORD the names of those Americans who exactly 1 year ago were killed by gunfire. 
   It has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today: 
   December 6, 1999: Shyheem Abraham, 17, Philadelphia, PA; Godofredo Carmenate, 70, Miami-Dade County, FL; Mike D'Alessandro, 32, Philadelphia, PA; John Davis, 18, Gary, IN; Norman Dotson, 33, Detroit, MI; Bernie Graham, 29, Fort Worth, TX; Latnaia Jefferies, 27, Gary, IN; James Jones III, 24, Baltimore, MD; Lorraine Lawhorn, 45, Knoxville, TN; Tavares Lavor McNeil, 22, Baltimore, MD; Emmett Outlaw, 76, Memphis, TN; Chester Roscoe, 28, Rochester, NY; Tavrise Tate, 20, Chicago, IL; and Antonio Thompson, 21, Charlotte, NC. 
   One of the victims of gun violence I mentioned, 45-year-old Lorraine Lawhorn of Knoxville, was shot and killed by one of her coworkers who recently had been fired. The gunman shot Lorraine in the back of the head. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
   Mr. President, am I correct that we have 5 minutes left in morning business, and then we will be going to the bankruptcy bill? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will speak on the bankruptcy bill in a moment. But in the time I have in morning business, I will speak on another matter. I do not have any statistics with me, but maybe that is better; I can talk about it in more personal or human terms. 
   In 1997, we passed the Balanced Budget Act with much acclaim. To be very bipartisan about this, President Clinton was very much for it. I think many Democrats and Republicans voted for it. But what has happened is--with the benefit of some time for observation and, hopefully, reflection--the cuts in Medicare have been draconian and have had a very harsh effect on health care, the quality of health care in our States, for Minnesota, Rhode Island, and all across the country. 
   It does not do any good to look back and affix blame. The point is, last year we said we were going to fix this problem. I think Senators--Democrats and Republicans alike--have heard from people back in their States. 
   In my State of Minnesota, here is the effect of this. First of all, in our rural communities, in what we call greater Minnesota outside the metro area, in the absence of getting some decent Medicare reimbursement, where you have a disproportionate number of elderly people living who are dependent on health care, the cost of providing that health care runs ahead of the reimbursement. The hospitals are losing money. 
   Here is the problem. This is not the case of greedy hospitals or greedy doctors. As a matter of fact, they have a very low profit margin. In fact, many hospitals have gone under over the last several years. When the hospital is no longer there, that is the beginning of the death of a community because people do not raise their children in communities unless there are good schools and good hospitals and good health care. 
   So we are in a real crisis, which should be spelled in capital letters, in the State of Minnesota, where many of our rural health care providers will go under unless we fix this problem, which is a problem we created. The same thing can be said for nursing homes, where there is inadequate reimbursement. The same thing can be said for home health care providers. The same thing can be said for medical education, which is financed, believe it or not, in part out of Medicare. The cuts in the reimbursement have led to a very serious situation in all of our States--certainly in Minnesota. 
   Then there are those hospitals--Hennepin County Medical Center is a perfect example; it is a very good public hospital; there are not a lot of them left--that, in fact, provide medical care to a disproportionate number of poor people in America. These hospitals are really having a difficult time making it. They are not going to continue to be financially solvent because we have so cut the reimbursement that they do not have the financial stability. 
   We never should have done this, but we did. 
   Then last year, we passed a piece of legislation. I feel kind of guilty about this. I didn't think it 100-percent fixed the problem, but I thought it did more than it did. So I went back to meet with people. We all go back to our States. We should. We meet with people in communities. We want to do well for people. 
   I said: Listen, I think this is going to really help. To the best of my ability, I talked about what this package was. But as it turns out, it, at best, I think, dealt with about 10 percent of the cuts, somewhere in that neighborhood. 
   We should not leave here--I want to go home, believe me. I want to go home. I would love to be back home. I would love not to be here right now, although I am always happy to be in the Senate. It is an honor. But you know what I am saying. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I have 2 more minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If we just put everything off and have a continuing resolution until next year and we do not fix this problem, it will be irresponsible. 
   There is one proposal--that tends to be the Republican proposal, as I understand it--that gives a lot more of the money over the next 5 years to managed care plans without any requirement that they be accountable and that they serve senior citizens and serve people who live in rural communities, which they do not do now. 
   Too many managed care plans have cut loose people they are supposed to be helping, and that is not the answer. 
   We have a package--I believe it is a Democratic package; it can be Democratic, Republican, anybody's package for all I care; I just want to get it done--which is $40 billion over the next 5 years, which does put the emphasis on getting the resources back to our rural health care providers and home health care providers and nursing homes and public hospitals and medical education, all of which is essential to whether or not we are going to be able to provide people with humane, dignified, and quality health care. 
   This is an important family issue. This is an important people issue. This is an important Minnesota issue. This is an important national security issue. We ought to get the job done before we leave. 
   Mr. President, it is my understanding that we now have concluded with morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have up to an hour. I don't know that I will take all that time. I might take about a half an hour now. If other Senators come down to the floor, then I certainly would yield the floor and reserve the balance of my time for tomorrow. 
   We are at the final days of the 106th Congress, I hope. Maybe we are not. Maybe we are going to be here until Hanukkah or Christmas. I think we are in the final days. 
   It is bitterly ironic to me that once again we are dealing with this bankruptcy ``reform'' bill. Chapter 7 bankruptcy is a major safety net program so that if you find yourself in horrible financial circumstances, crisis financial circumstances, you can file chapter 7 and rebuild your life. About 50 percent of the people who do that do it because of a medical bill that puts them under or they lose their job or have such a tight budget. 
   We don't have that kind of tight budget. We make a very high salary. But a lot of people don't. So if every month you have to scratch and claw to make ends meet, and your car breaks down or, Lord, your child has some kind of an infection and you get antibiotics that can cost $80-$90, you can find yourself in a tough situation. It is major medical bills that are the principal reason. 
   At the end of the 106th Congress, a do-nothing Congress, are we doing anything during this lame duck session to deal with economic security for families? No. Are we considering any kind of health care legislation that would make health care coverage more affordable for people? No. Are we passing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which focuses on that issue about which I heard so much in the Presidential campaign; namely, education, making sure that there is good, high-quality education for every child? No. Have we raised the minimum wage yet? No. Have we done anything to deal with catastrophic medical expenses, if you should be aged, older, and wind up in a nursing home, or you need somebody to help you stay at home so you don't have to be in a nursing home? No. 
   What do we have before us instead? We have something before us in this lame duck session--the majority leader came out yesterday and called for another cloture vote--that is 100 percent representative of the 106th Congress; that is to say, it will do nothing. It is will do nothing because it is going to come to nothing. And it is going to come to nothing because the President is going to veto it. In all likelihood, we won't be here anyway. It will end up being a pocket veto. If we are here, I am convinced we would get the 34 votes to sustain the veto. But that is now how we are spending our time. 
   This is a do-nothing effort for, unfortunately, a worse than do-nothing bill because it will do harm to people which will amount to nothing in a do-nothing Congress. There is a symmetry to this. 
   I observed one thing from the beginning about this bill. It is hemorrhaging support. There was a time when there was a stampede for ``bankruptcy reform,'' but now what has happened is, at least on our side, the majority of Democrats are opposed to this bill. Every single civil rights organization, labor organization, women's organization, children's organization, and consumer organization opposes it. I didn't say the credit card companies oppose it or the big financial institutions. 
   I think we will get a solid vote on Thursday, and it will pass. But we will be close to the number of votes that we need to sustain a Presidential veto. I thank President Clinton for being so strong on this. In any case, in all likelihood we will be gone. I don't even know what this exercise is about. 
   We can do better in the 107th Congress. We can have a piece of legislation that is balanced. We can have bankruptcy reform. We can make sure the scope of this legislation deals directly with those people who abuse this system, a very small percentage, and we can also call upon the credit card companies to be accountable. Instead we have this out here, which is going to go nowhere. 
   I rise to talk a little bit about how awful this piece of legislation is. Supporters have cited the high number of bankruptcy filings in recent years as the reason to move forward on what they call ``reform.'' But there has been a dramatic drop in the last 2 years in the number of bankruptcies. That is about the period of time we have held up this piece of legislation. In the months since the Senate passed bankruptcy reform, any pretense that this legislation is needed has evaporated. The number of bankruptcies has fallen steadily over the past year. Charge-offs and credit card debt are down significantly, and delinquencies have fallen to the lowest level since 1995. 
   The proponents and opponents agree that nearly all the debtors who resort to bankruptcy do not game the system but do it out of desperate financial circumstances, and that only a tiny minority of chapter 7 filers, as few as 3 percent, could afford repayment. 
   Where is the crisis? We are trying to address yesterday's headline. But as I have already stated, there really should not be any wonder. The credit card industry wants this legislation. They want to be able to protect the risky investments they have made. They want to be able to pump their credit cards out to our children--everybody has had that experience--and they want the Senate to do their bidding. 
   Bankruptcy ``reform'' has been nothing more than a filler on the Senate calendar. It is a place holder while we wait for some appropriations bill, some agreement. That is what this proceeding is about. 
   Guess what. That is where all the attention is focused. The calendar may say that bankruptcy is on the agenda, but I can tell you--and my colleagues know this is true--it is not bankruptcy ``reform'' that is on the minds of our colleagues. Instead, we are all obsessing over negotiations in maybe a smoke-filled room--or maybe it is not smoke filled--with very few of us who are party to it. That is why right now there is little attention given to this legislation. That is another awful thing. We don't get our work done, we don't get these bills out here, and it winds up with a few people negotiating and the rest of us waiting around like potted plants. None of us worked hard to get here for this kind of process. I will tell you something else. None of us worked hard to get here for a process where the majority leader can take a piece of legislation--the State Department embassy bill--and completely gut it, where the only thing left is the number, and put a bankruptcy bill in it and bring it over here under the conference committee rules. That makes a mockery of the legislative process--a mockery. 
   I will tell you something else. I will try to say it with a twinkle in my eye because it never does any good to get bitter. But even from my own caucuses I sometimes don't understand the votes of some Democrats on this, because we have discussions in our caucus, and the one thing we feel strongly about--and I hope Republicans feel just as strongly about this--is that we have to change our modus operandi. We cannot continue to do things outside the scope of conference and put everything into conference committee. We have to have bills out here, we have to have amendments, and we have to have debate. We have to have a vital institution again where Senators can become good Senators--not wait around for a year and a half where you can hardly do anything. We have had that discussion in our caucus, and then some Democrats come out and vote for this turkey. I don't understand why. It is such an affront to what should be the legislative process and the way this institution works. 
   I wish to begin by laying out my reasons for opposing this measure, and I hope today we will have a thorough discussion. I know a number of Senators are going to be speaking in opposition. I am sure some colleagues and friends, such as Senator GRASSLEY, will be out here to speak for it, or Senator BIDEN. 
   Reasons for opposing the conference report: The legislation, No. 1, rests on faulty premises. The bill addresses a crisis that doesn't exist. Increased filings are being used as an excuse to  harshly restrict bankruptcy protection, but the filings have abruptly fallen in the last 2 years. Additionally, the bill is based on the myth that the stigma of bankruptcy has declined. There is not a shred of evidence for that. In fact, that is part of the reason that 116 law professors who teach bankruptcy law in the country have said this bill is a mistake, and they point out that it is hardly the case that people just abuse it and feel no stigma. 
   No. 2, abusive filers are not the majority; they are a tiny minority. Let's write a good bill that goes after them. But let's not have some sweeping bill that turns the clock back and basically removes a major safety net not just for low-income families but 
   middle-income families. Bill proponents cite the need to curb ``abusive'' filings as the reason to harshly restrict bankruptcy protection. But the American Bankruptcy Institute found that only 3 percent of chapter 7 filers could have paid back more of their debt. Even the bill's supporters acknowledge that the highest percentage you could get would be 10 to 13 percent. 
   No. 3, the conference report falls heaviest on the most vulnerable. The harsh restrictions in this bill will make bankruptcy less protective, more complicated and expensive to file, and this will make it much harder for low- and moderate-income people to effectively file and get any protection. Unfortunately, the means test and safe harbor will not shield any debtor from the majority of these harsh provisions and have been written in such a way that they will capture many debtors who truly have no ability to pay off significant debt. They won't make it with chapter 13. The only way they will have a chance to rebuild their lives is to be able to file chapter 7. They won't be able to do it under this legislation. 
   No. 4, the bankruptcy code is a critical safety net for America's middle class. Low- and moderate-income families--especially single parent families--are those who most need the ``fresh start'' which is provided by bankruptcy protection. This bill will make it much harder for them to get out from under the burden of crushing debt. 
   Colleagues, this is a very harsh piece of legislation that is going to most dramatically hurt the most vulnerable people in this country--women and children, working income, low- and moderate-income families put under. 
   About 50 percent of the bankruptcy cases are because of a major medical bill. Now, I have no doubt that the credit card industry has pumped unbelievable amounts of money into getting this passed. They are everywhere. This is a pretty one-sided debate because the people who get the protection are the people without the money. They are not the big contributors. They are not the heavy hitters. They are not the well connected. They are not the players. But why don't we get it right and pass a decent bill, not one that hurts those people who are most vulnerable? 
   No. 5, the banking and credit card industry--is anybody surprised?--gets a free ride. The bill as drafted gives a free ride to banks and credit card companies that deserve much of the blame for the high number of bankruptcy filings because of their loose credit standards. Lenders can pump those credit cards and they can be involved in all the reckless lending--and I will have more to say about that later--and now we bail them out. This is a bailout for the big credit card companies and the big lenders. 
   No. 6, this legislation may cause increased bankruptcies and defaults. Another bitter irony. Several economists have suggested that restricting access to bankruptcy protection will actually increase the number of filings and defaults because banks will be more willing to lend money to marginal candidates. 
   Indeed, it is no coincidence that the recent surge in bankruptcy filings began immediately after the last major ``pro-creditor reforms'' were passed by the Congress in 1984. You make it easy for them to do this, to be involved in reckless lending, and they know they will be able to collect. They know people won't be able to file chapter 7, and this will lead to more reckless lending and more bankruptcy. 
   No. 7, this conference report is worse than the Senate bill. 
   I opposed the Senate bill. However, even that flawed legislation was far superior to this conference report. The sham bankruptcy ``conference'' report has taken big steps backward when it comes to balancing fairness. 
   No. 8, again, I am going to emphasize this over and over again to Democrats and Republicans because we are 50-50; or, we may be 50-50. We may be 51-49. But we could be the majority someday. We could very well be the majority someday. 
   This conference report mocks the legislative process. This is a larger issue than bankruptcy reform. It is a question of the fundamental integrity of the Senate as a legislative body. Not one provision in the original State Department authorization bill--aside from the bill number itself--remains a part of this legislation. To replace in totality a piece of legislation with a wholly new and unrelated bill in conference takes the Congress one step forward to a virtual tricameral legislature--House, Senate, and conference committee. 
   I will tell you something. Again, if there is one thing we had better agree to over the next couple of weeks when it comes to shared power, it better be that we are going to put an end to the abusive use of these conference committees. We never should have moved away from rule XXVIII. We should not let unrelated amendments or basically whole new bills be put into conference reports and then brought back to this Chamber this way. It is an outrageous abuse of the legislative process. I think the Senate should vote against this for that reason alone. 
   I say to the majority that we could be a majority in the Senate. You wouldn't want it done to you either. 
   I want to observe that in July my friend from Iowa, Senator GRASSLEY, referred to the opposition to this bill as ``radical fringe.'' I think he is one of the best Senators in the Senate. But, again, I will repeat this. I am in the company of every consumer organization that I know of--every labor union, every civil rights organization, every women's organization, and almost every children's organization that I know of. It is one of the broadest coalitions I have ever seen. 
   I say to my colleagues that it is said you can tell a lot about a person by who his or her friends are. You can also tell a lot about a piece of legislation by who the enemies are. 
   I don't see a lot of working families, a lot of hard-pressed families, a lot of ordinary citizens around this country, from Minnesota to Arkansas to New York to California, clamoring for this piece of legislation for which the credit card companies are so gung-ho. 
   There is no doubt in my mind that this is a bad bill. It punishes the most vulnerable and rewards the big banks and credit card companies for their own poor practices. 
   I am for a more balanced bill. I think we can do it the next time. We can go after the tiny minority that abuses it. We ought to have some standards that these credit card companies have to live up to as well. 
   Earlier, I used the word ``injustice'' to describe this bill. That is exactly right. It would be a bitter irony if the creditors were able to use a crisis--largely their own marking--to encourage Congress to decrease more borrowing access. 
   We should have a major safety net program for the vast majority in this country. 
   This is sham reform. 
   Real bankruptcy reform would address the concentration of financial markets, which is increasing the power and clout of the big banks and credit card companies to unprecedented levels. 
   Real bankruptcy reform would address the predatory and abusive lending. 
   Real bankruptcy reform would make working families more 
   economically secure. 
   Real reform would address skyrocketing and unaffordable medical expenses. 
   Real economic reform would confront the increasing chasm between the wealthy and the rest of America. But instead of lifting up working families, and instead of lifting up the majority, the standard of living of the majority living in this country, this bill punishes them. And I urge its rejection. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time for debate tomorrow. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, being able to file chapter 7 bankruptcy is a major safety net for middle-class, low-income families. 
   I have heard my colleagues on the other side speak, but the truth is that every single civil rights organization, labor organization, consumer organization, and women's organization opposes this piece of legislation. It goes too far. It is too harsh. It is significantly worse from a bill that we once passed that indeed was much better. 
   I have a letter signed by 116 law professors who have said this bill is too harsh and should be defeated. 
   Finally, colleagues, this bill came to the Senate in a State Department embassy conference report which was gutted. This whole process is absolutely outrageous, and Senators who care about this legislative process and this institution should vote against cloture. 
   I yield 1 1/2 minutes to my colleague from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001205</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield 1 minute to Senator SCHUMER and 1 minute to Senator DURBIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001114</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to call attention to new data with respect to older Americans and mental illnesses that support swift consideration by the Senate of the Medicare Mental Health Modernization Act, S. 3233, a bill that I introduced on October 25, 2000. 
   Throughout my Senate career, I have been concerned about mental illness and the unfair discrimination faced by those with this serious illness. We now know from Surgeon General David  Satcher, in his recent report, ``Mental Health: A Report of the Surgeon General,'' that the rate of major clinical depression and the incidence of suicide among senior citizens is alarmingly high. This report cites that about one-half of patients relocated to nursing homes from the community are at greater risk for depression. Moreover, up to 37% of older adults treated in primary care settings experience symptoms of depression. At the same time, the Surgeon General emphasizes that depression ``is not well-recognized or treated in primary care settings,'' and calls attention to the alarming fact that older people have the highest rates of suicide in the U.S. population. Contrary to what is widely believed, suicide rates actually increase with age, and, as the Surgeon General points out, ``depression is a foremost risk factor for suicide in older adults.'' 
   Clearly, Mr. President, our nation must take steps to ensure that mental health care is easily and readily available under the Medicare program. S. 3233, the Medicare Mental Health Modernization Act, takes an important first step in that direction. It is time to take this potential fatal illness seriously. I believe we must do everything we can to make effective treatments available in a timely manner for older adults and others covered by Medicare, and help prevent relapse and recurrence once mental illness is diagnosed. 
   The mental health community is very aware of the problems in the Medicare system and is fighting to improve it. I want to thank those groups that have supported this initial effort to improve mental health care in the Medicare program, particularly the American Mental Health Counselors Association (AMHCA) for their leadership role in fighting for improved mental health care coverage for seniors under Medicare. Their support joins that of the other major mental health groups mentioned in my earlier statement, as well as the Association for the Advancement of Psychology, the Clinical Social Work Federation, the Federation of Families for Children's Mental Health, the International Association of Psychosocial Rehabilitation Services, and the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare. I want to applaud the determination of these groups for stepping forward to fight for the rights of those with mental illnesses, and their commitment to improving mental health services funded by the Medicare program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Some of us had amendments we wanted to offer. That is part of the legislative process. I want to have 10 minutes to speak on an amendment I wanted to offer on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am actually going to take about 2 minutes. I know Senator DURBIN wants to speak. 
   I say to Senator MOYNIHAN from New York that it is an important bill. There were a number of us, however, who objected. I know how strongly Senator MOYNIHAN feels about this legislation. I know that this is an important issue in our trade policy. I want him to know, given the tremendous respect I have for him--I think the tremendous respect that every Senator has for him--that for my own part my standing objection was focused not so much on the substance of this legislation. It was what some of us have been talking about over and over again, which is that the Senate cannot function as a great institution when Senators are not allowed to bring amendments to the floor. 
   There are some aspects of this bill that bother me. One of them has to do with hundreds of millions of dollars of subsidy for the tobacco industry to peddle tobacco in poor countries and in developing countries, which I think has the consequence of killing children. We don't need to be subsidizing this. Senator DURBIN is far more the expert. He can speak more about the substance of it. 
   I wanted to offer an amendment. I wanted to join Senator DURBIN with an amendment to knock this corporate welfare subsidy to tobacco companies out. 
   I am also concerned about additional subsidies that go to the pharmaceutical industry, and, frankly, the doubling of the subsidy that goes to arms exports. 
   The point is that it is hard to be a good Senator and it is hard for the Senate to be a good Senate when we don't have the opportunity to come to the floor with amendments and try to improve a piece of legislation. Senators can vote up or down. I know that Senator MOYNIHAN is in favor of this process. 
   I take exception with the majority leader over the way we are doing this. Now we are at the very end of the process, and we certainly don't want to see harsh consequences as a result of this not going through. That is why I won't object. 
   I will listen to the counsel of the Senator from New York. I find his counsel usually to be wise counsel. 
   I hope the Senate will operate differently and that there will be an opportunity for Senators to come to the floor with amendments and to be legislators to try to improve policy. 
   I find it outrageous, unconscionable, and egregious that we still have corporate welfare for the tobacco industry to peddle its death products to other nations and ultimately end up killing young people and children. That to me is outrageous. 
   I yield the floor. I yield my time to Senator DURBIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First of all, I thank Senator GRASSLEY. I very much appreciate his effort, with Senator KENNEDY. He does not give in, especially when it is a matter of principle to him. I thank him for his good work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, as of today, we are scheduled to have a cloture vote tomorrow. It is going to be on the bankruptcy conference report. One would think that in the final days of this Congress--of this Senate--we actually would be talking about debating and passing legislation that would promote the economic security of families in our country. 
   We could focus on health security for families. We could focus on raising the minimum wage. We could focus on affordable child care. We could focus on affordable housing. We could focus on reauthorizing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Thank God people in the country are so focused on a good education for their children or their grandchildren. 
   Instead, we are spending our final days debating an unjust and imbalanced bankruptcy bill which is entirely for the benefit of big banks and the credit card companies. In one way, I am very sad to say this piece of legislation is truly representative of the 106th Congress. It is an anti-consumer, giveaway-to-big-business bill, in a Congress which has been dominated by special interest legislation. And it is representative of the 106th Congress in another way, too: It represents distorted priorities. We could be doing so much to enhance and support ordinary citizens in our country. Instead, we now have this legislation before us. 
   I want Senators to know, if they are watching, I will, as they come to the floor, interrupt my remarks so others can speak in opposition. We have a lot of ground to cover. We intend to cover that ground because this piece of legislation deserves scrutiny. It should be held up to the light of day so citizens in this country can see what an ill-made, mishandled attempt this piece of legislation is. Other Senators need to understand what bad legislation this is, how terrible its impact will be on America's most powerless families, and what a complete giveaway it is to banks, credit card companies, and other powerful interests. 
   This is a worse bill than the bill we voted on earlier in the Senate. It is important for colleagues to understand that not only is this a worse piece of legislation, we had a provision in the bill that passed the Senate--albeit a flawed bill--the Kohl amendment, which said that while we are punishing low- and moderate-income people, families that have gone under because of bankruptcy, in 40 percent or 50 percent of the cases because of medical bills, you certainly don't want to enable millionaires to basically buy million-dollar homes in several States and in that way shield themselves from any liability. That provision was taken out. That is reason enough for Senators to vote against this bill. 
   In addition, Senator SCHUMER had a provision that said, when people are breaking the law and blocking people from being able to go to family planning clinics, they should not be able to shield themselves from legal expenses and other expenses by not being held liable when it comes to bankruptcy. The Schumer provision was taken out. 
   If that is not enough for Senators, the way in which the majority leader has advanced this bill makes a mockery out of the legislative process. If we love this institution and we believe in an open, public, and accountable legislative and political process, then I don't see how we can support taking a State Department conference report--I call it the ``invasion of the body snatchers''--completely gutting that so there is not a word about the State Department any longer and, instead, putting in this bankruptcy bill, far worse than the bill passed by the Senate.  
   I see Senator DURBIN on the floor. I can conclude in 5 minutes, if he is here to speak on this. 
   I will summarize reasons for opposing this conference report and then come back a little later on and develop each of these arguments. 
   First, the legislation rests on faulty premises. The bill addresses a crisis that does not exist. Increased filings are being used as an excuse to harshly restrict bankruptcy protection, but the filings have actually fallen sharply in the last 2 years. Additionally, the bill is based on the myth that the stigma of bankruptcy has declined. Not true. I will develop that argument later on. 
   Second, abusive filers are a tiny minority. Bill proponents cite the need to curb ``abusive filings'' as a reason to harshly restrict bankruptcy protection, but the American Bankruptcy Institute found that only 3 percent of chapter 7 filers could have paid back more of their debt. Even bill supporters acknowledge that, at most, 10 to 13 percent of the filers are abusive. 
   Third, the conference report falls heaviest on those who are most vulnerable. The harsh restrictions in this legislation will make bankruptcy less protective, more complicated, and expensive to file. This will make it much more difficult for low- and moderate-income citizens to have any protection. Unfortunately, the means tests and safe harbor will not shield from the majority of these provisions and have been written in such a way that they will capture many debtors who truly have no ability to significantly pay off this debt and therefore will be in servitude for the rest of their lives. 
   Fourth of all, the bankruptcy code is a critical safety net for America's middle class. Low- and moderate-income families, especially single parent families, are those who are most in need to make a fresh start--the fresh start provided by bankruptcy protection. The bill will make it very difficult for these families to get out of crushing debt. Again, in 40 percent of the cases, these are families who have gone under because of a medical bill. 
   Fifth of all, the banking and credit card industry gets a free ride. The bill as drafted gives a free ride to banks and credit card companies that deserve much of the claim for the bankruptcy filings in the first place, and the lenders should not be rewarded for this reckless lending. 
   Sixth of all, this legislation actually might increase the number of bankruptcies and defaults. Several economists have suggested that restricting access to bankruptcy protection will actually increase the number of filings and defaults because banks and these credit card companies will be even more willing to lend money to marginal candidates. 
   Seventh of all, the conference report, again, is worse than the Senate bill. We had a very reasonable provision; It was the Kohl amendment, which said, if you are going to go after women, and go after working families, and go after low- and moderate-income people, and go after families who are in debt because of a medical bill that is putting them under, then at least make sure you are not going to have wealthy Americans who are going to be able to go to several States and buy homes worth millions of dollars and shield themselves from any liability. That provision is knocked out. 
   This is a worse bill than that passed in the Senate. The Schumer amendment, again, said if people are blocking people from family planning services, they have broken the law; they ought not to be able to shield expenses they incurred from liability when it comes to bankruptcy. The Schumer amendment was taken out. 
   Finally, I say this one more time. This is a larger issue than bankruptcy reform. It is a question of the fundamental integrity of the Senate as a legislative body. Not one provision of the original State Department authorization bill, aside from the bill number, remains part of this legislation. To replace in totality a piece of legislation with a wholly new and unrelated bill in conference takes the Congress one step closer to a virtual tricameral legislature--House, Senate, and conference committee. If you believe in the integrity of this legislative process, and if you believe we all ought to be in a position to be good legislators, you should vote against this cloture motion on those grounds alone. 
   I conclude this way. Other colleagues are on the floor. I will develop these arguments later on. At one point in time, the argument was suggested that only a tiny minority opposed this bill. Well, when I look at the opposition of labor unions, and I look at the opposition of every single consumer organization, and I look at the opposition from women and children's groups, and I look at the strong opposition from the civil rights community and a good part of the religious community, and when I see letters signed by bankruptcy professors, the academic community, judges, all the people who know this system well, who say this piece of legislation is egregious--it is one sided: it is imbalanced; it is unjust; it is too harsh--I realize that this piece of legislation should be stopped. I hope that tomorrow Senators, Democrats and Republicans, will oppose this on substantive grounds and also on the basis of the way in which this has been done. The way in which this has been done at the very end of this session is an affront to the integrity of this process. No Senator should vote for cloture who believes in an open, honest process with real integrity. 
   Before I launch into my first point, Mr. President, I'd like to observe that in July my friend from Iowa, the author of this bill, referred to the opposition to this bill as the ``radical fringe.'' Well, I'm pretty proud of the company I'm keeping no matter now dismissive my colleague. Because you know what? The labor unions all oppose this bill. The consumer groups all oppose this bill. The women and children's groups all oppose this bill. The civil rights groups all oppose this bill and the many members of the religious community oppose this bill. Indeed one of the broadest coalitions I have ever seen united together opposes this so-called bankruptcy reform. 
   I would say to my colleagues, you can tell a lot about a person--or a bill--by who its friends are. But you can also tell a lot about a bill by who its enemies are. The radical fringe? I see millions of working families who have nothing to gain and everything to lose under this legislation. 
   Now, Mr. President, you have to give the proponents of this bill credit for chutzpah: They still preach the urgent need for this legislation despite the fact that nearly all the evidence points to the contrary. In fact, in the months since the Senate passed bankruptcy reform, any pretense of necessity has evaporated. The number of bankruptcies has fallen steadily over the past year, charge offs on credit card debt are down significantly and delinquencies have fallen to the lowest levels since 1995. Now proponents and opponents agree that nearly all debtors resort to bankruptcy not to game the system but rather as a desperate measure of economic survival and that only a tiny minority of chapter 7 filers--as few as 3 percent--could afford any debt repayment. 
   And I have to congratulate my friends on another point, because they had almost convinced the Congress and the American public to view bankruptcy as a giant loophole for scam artists instead of a safety net. A key part of this argument is the belief--wholly unsubstantiated as far as any objective observer call tell--that the high number of bankruptcies in the 1990's is a result of a decline in the stigma of bankruptcy. In fact, my friend from Iowa said in July that ``With high numbers of bankruptcies occurring at a time when Americans are earning more, the only logical conclusion is that some people are using bankruptcy as a way out.'' 
   With all due respect, while that has been a common assertion on the part of the bill's proponents that's all it is: an assertion. Virtually nothing backs it up. Indeed it's an assertion that flies in the face of all evidence that bankruptcy remains a deeply embarrassing, difficult and humbling experience for the vast majority of the people who file. I think my colleagues should actually talk to some folks who have filed for bankruptcy. Ask them how it felt to tell their friends and family about what they had to do, ask them how it felt to let down lenders to whom they owed money. Ask them how they felt about telling their employer. 
   In fact, it's a shame that when a group of my colleagues and I hosted some of the debtors profiled in Time magazine expos&#233; of this legislation--  ``Soaked by Congress''--the bill's proponents attacked the credibility 
   of the Time article but didn't bother to visit with Charles and Lisa Trapp, or Patricia Blake, or Diana Murray all who came to Washington to explain--from the perspective of people who have been there--what it's like to file for bankruptcy and why they were driven by that extreme. 
   A review of the academic papers on bankruptcy suggests that the evidence for a decline in the stigma of bankruptcy is slim. This was the conclusion of a September 2000 Congressional Budget Office report entitled ``Personal Bankruptcy: A Literature Review.'' In fact, CBO found some objective evidence that argues that the stigma of bankruptcy is a strong deterrent to filing noting a study that showed that while 18 percent of U.S. households could benefit from filing for bankruptcy, only 0.7 percent did--suggesting that stigma might hold some back. 
   In the book, ``the Fragile Middle Class'' by Theresa Sullivan, Elizabeth Warren and Jay Westerbrook--all academic bankruptcy experts--the authors argue that the stigma remains:  
   Bankruptcy is, in many ways, where middle class values crash into middle class fears. Bankruptcy debtors are unlikely either to feel in charge of their destiny or to feel confident about planning their future. Discharging debts that were honestly incurred seems the antithesis of middle-class morality. Public identification as a bankruptcy debtor is embarrassing at best, devastating at worst. It is certainly not respectable, even in a country with large numbers of bankruptcies, to be bankrupt. Bankruptcy debtors have told us of their efforts to conceal their bankruptcy. Arguments that the stigma attached to bankruptcy has declined are typically made by journalists who are unable to find any bankrupt debtors willing to be interviewed for the record and by prosperous economists who see bankruptcy as a great bargain.  
   Of course the stigma argument isn't new. As early as the 1920's then Solicitor General of the United States Thomas Thacher argued that Americans were all too comfortable with filing for bankruptcy. Indeed, as David Moss notes in a 1999 American Bankruptcy Law Journal article, quote: ``those who today worry about declining stigma might be surprised to learn that the stigma associated with bankruptcy had, according to some observers, already disappeared by 1967.'' 
   Of course there are other very logical explanations of why the filing rate in the 90's is quite high--they just aren't as convenient for the big banks and credit card industry. 
   Mr. President, we know why people file for bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is the only solution for families who find their debt and the interest on their debt outstrips their income. The question is, why do families find themselves in those circumstances? And when they do, what do we as a society do to keep those families solvent. Or if we don't help them to remain solvent, how do we at least let them pick up the pieces, get on with their lives, reenter productive society. 
   That's what this debate is about. That's exactly what's at stake in this debate; the solvency of the middle class. 
   But, Mr. President, one not-so-small footnote that overshadows this whole debate is the fact that the number of bankruptcy filings have been dropping like a stone for the past 2 years. My colleagues are driving this heartless bill with talk of a bankruptcy ``crisis,'' a dramatic increase in the number of filings, but with all due respect they are trying to scare us with yesterday's ghosts. A study released on September 8 of last year by Professor Lawrence Ausubel of the University of Maryland notes that the peak increase in bankruptcy filings came and went in 1996. In fact, filings in 1998 were barely an increase over 1997 and we 
   now know that there were 112,000 fewer bankruptcies in 1999 that there were in 1998--a nearly 10 percent decline. And the numbers so far have continued the sharp decline in 2000. 
   We're being led to believe that it's the high number of bankrupts that are driving this legislation. And do you know what? They are, but for the wrong reasons. The credit card companies are counting on the United States Senate to overreact to the number of bankruptcies, they are counting on you to ignore their complicity in the huge debt burdens on most American families, the financial services industry is counting on the Congress to overlook the evidence that the bankruptcy crisis is self correcting. The problem may be abating, but they still want the fix to pad their profits. The high number of people filing for bankruptcy--most of whom have terrible circumstances that force them to do so--are an excuse, not a justification. 
   Still, regardless of how many people file or why they file, my colleagues continue to maintain that this bill is driven by necessity. To do this they would track more debtors into chapter 13 instead of chapter 7 through the use of a means test. But again, their goal flies in the face of the evidence. First of all, we know through independent studies of those who file for bankruptcy that only about 3 percent of all debtors who file for chapter 7 could afford to pay any of their debts and that in 95 percent of chapter 7 filings there were no meaningful assets to be liquidated to pay back creditors. This is in line with other evidence that nearly all debtors file for bankruptcy do so because of some sudden, drastic economic disruption which it often takes years to recover from. 
   Bankruptcy does not occur in vacuum. We know that in the vast majority of cases it is a drastic step taken by families in desperate financial circumstances and overburdened by debt. The main income earner may have lost his or her job. There may be sudden illness or a terrible accident requiring medical care. Certainly most Americans have faced a time in their lives where they weren't sure where the next mortgage payment or credit card payment was going to come from, but somehow they scrape by month to month. Still, such families are on the edge of a precipice and any new expense--a severely sick child, a car repair bill--could send a family into financial ruin. Despite the current economic expansion there are far too many working families in this situation. That is the true story behind the high number of bankruptcy filings in recent years and I want to make clear to my colleagues that the evidence shows that the very banks and credit card companies who are pushing this bill have a lot to do with why working families are in this predicament today. 
   The bankruptcy system is supposed to allow a person to climb back up after they've hit bottom, to have a fresh start. There is no point to continue to punish a person and a family once their resources are over matched by debt. The bankruptcy system allows families to regroup, to focus resources on essentials like their home, transportation and meeting the needs of dependents. Sometimes the only way this can occur is to allow the debtor to be forgiven of some debt, and in most cases this is debt that would never be repaid because of the debtor's financial circumstances. 
   The sponsors of this measure and the megabucks and credit card companies behind this bill don't like to focus on those situations. They paint a picture of profligate abuse of the bankruptcy system by irresponsible debtors who could pay their debt but simply choose not to. Such people do take advantage of the system, there is no question. But this bill casts a wider net and catches more than just the bankruptcy ``abusers.'' 
   Again, a study done last year by the American Bankruptcy Institute found that only 3 percent of debtors who file under chapter 7--where debtors liquidate assets to repay some debt while the rest of the debtor's unsecured debt is forgiven--would actually have been able to pay more of their debt than they are required to under chapter 7. Even the U.S. Justice Department found that the number of abusive claims was somewhere between 3-13 percent. This means that the number of people filing abusive bankruptcy claims is astonishingly low. But this legislation seeks to channel many more debtors into chapter 13 bankruptcy--where the debtor enters a 3-5 year repayment plan and very little debt is forgiven. Yet in the pursuit of the few, this bill imposes onerous conditions, and ridiculous standards on all bankrupts alike. Additionally, under current law, 67 percent of the debtors in chapter 13 fail to complete their repayment plan often because they did not get enough relief from loans, and because economic difficulties continued. So this legislation would take individuals, the majority of whom desperately need a true fresh start, and  force them into a bankruptcy process which two-thirds of debtors already fail to complete successfully. And my colleagues call this reform? 
   And yet when given the opportunity to target real, proven abuses by wealthy deadbeats and scofflaws, the sponsors took a pass. Again, Mr. President, the very small number of abusive filers are an excuse not a justification for this bill that falls most heavily on those most in need of fresh start relief. This conference report does not match it's rhetoric. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I hope every Democrat or staff member heard the words of Senator FEINGOLD. His words will be memorable in terms of the record of the Senate. They are prophetic for now and in the future. I thank the Senator for the power of his presentation, for the power of his words. 
   I ask the Senator from Illinois how much time he thinks he will need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield 20 minutes to the Senator from Illinois, Mr. DURBIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I did tell Senator HARKIN I would grant him some time. I want to allow some time for myself to speak in opposition to this as well. Let me see how things go. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take 1 minute because our leader is on the floor. 
   I thank Senator DURBIN. I only heard part of what he said but the conclusion especially. I will build on what he said, except I won't do it as well. 
   Whatever Senators think about the content of this bill--and there is much to question--it is a much worse bill than the bill passed by the Senate before. Senator DURBIN has more credibility on this because he worked on the original bankruptcy bill and was responsible for much of its content which was much better than what we have seen in recent days. This is a mockery of the legislative process. Any minority, any Senator, anyone who loves this institution, can't continue to let people in the majority take a conference report, gut it, and put in a whole different bill, and then bring it here and jam it down everybody's throats. I certainly hope Senators who care about this legislative process, and who care about the rights of the minority and  about a public process with some accountability, will at least vote against cloture. I think that is almost as important an issue as the content, in terms of the future of this body. I am not being melodramatic about it. I hope we will have good support in the vote against cloture, much less the vote against the final product. I hope tomorrow we will be able to stop this. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the minority leader for his words. 
   I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from North Dakota, Mr. DORGAN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me thank Senator HARKIN for his presentation. Let me thank other Senators who have spoken, both about what has happened to the Labor, Health and Human Services appropriations bill and also about this bankruptcy bill. I say to my colleague from Iowa, to tell you the truth, this is part of the same pattern. He is talking about abuse of the legislative process, talking about a complete breakdown of bipartisanship, a complete breakdown of trust. That is exactly what you have here when you have a State Department bill, a conference report that is completely gutted, not a word in there any longer about it, the only thing left is the number, and then what is put in, instead, is a bankruptcy bill. Democrats were not consulted at all, in an effort to jam it through. That is the same principle. 
   I would think and hope every member of the minority party who cares about our rights, who cares about an open legislative process, who cares about integrity of the political process, would vote against cloture tomorrow because my colleague is talking about the same process. 
   It might sound very much like an inside thing to people who are following this. I know everything is focused on the election. But honest to God, American people, it is not. When these kinds of decisions can be made by a few people with no sunlight, no scrutiny, no exposure, you have a real abuse of the process. What can happen is that usually the people who are hurt are the little people. 
   Let me tell you, the people who are involved in this kind of process, the behind-the-doors process, sticking stuff in in 
   conference committees, gutting conference reports, are folks who are well heeled, who have the lobbyists who know how to work this process for them. But the people who get hurt are not involved at all. That is what I want to talk about. I want to talk about the way in which this conference report, this bankruptcy bill harms the most vulnerable citizens in this country, people who find themselves in desperate economic circumstances. 
   Please remember, Senators, 50 percent of the people who file for chapter 7 do it because of a medical bill that puts them under. Please remember: There but for the grace of God go I. 
   You can be as frugal as possible. You can be prudent. You can try to manage your family finances. And then you can have a medical bill that can put your family under. It took my family, my parents, 20 years to pay off a medical bill of years ago. Many people cannot do that. They find themselves in a horrible situation and then as a last resort, in order to rebuild their finances and sometimes just stop the harassment by creditors, in order to get back on their feet, people file for bankruptcy. That is what this piece of legislation is all about--making it impossible for people who, through no fault of their own, find themselves in terrible financial circumstances, unable to rebuild their lives and instead wind up essentially in debt slavery for the rest of their lives. 
   I think one of the things that has helped us in this debate--because I am confident Senators now see some of the harshness in this legislation--was a May 15, 2000, issue of Time magazine. The cover story was entitled ``Soaked By Congress.'' It deals with this bankruptcy bill. 
   Although, frankly, not as harsh a version--it was a better version that Time magazine talked about--this article was written by reporters Don Bartlett and Jim Steele, who have, I think, won a Pulitzer for their work. They do great investigative research. It is a detailed look at the true picture of who files for bankruptcy in America. 
   You will find a far different picture in this Time magazine than the skewed version that has been used to justify this mean-spirited and harsh legislation. This article carefully documents how low- and middle-income families, increasingly headed by a single person, usually a woman, are denied the opportunity of a fresh start if this punitive legislation is passed. I hope Senators will vote against cloture. 
   As Brady Williams, who is chairman of the National Bankruptcy Reform Commission, notes in the article, the bankruptcy bill would condemn working families:  
   ......to what essentially is a life term in a debtors prison.  
   Proponents of this legislation have tried to refute the Time magazine article. Indeed, during these final days of debate you will hear the bill's supporters claim that low- and moderate-income debtors will be unaffected by this legislation. Colleagues, if you listen closely to their statements, you will hear that they only claim that such debtors will not be affected by the bill's means test. Not only is that claim demonstrably false, the means test and the safe harbor have been written in a way that will capture many working families who are filing chapter 7 relief in good faith, but it ignores the vast majority of the legislation which still imposes needless hurdles and punitive costs on all families filing for bankruptcy, regardless of their income. Nor does the safe harbor apply to any of these provisions. 
   You might ask, why has the Congress chosen to be so hard on ordinary folks down on their luck? How is it that this bill is so skewed against their interests and in favor of big banks and credit card companies? My colleague, Senator FEINGOLD from Wisconsin, spoke to that. It is because these families do not have the million-dollar lobbyists representing them before Congress. 
   They do not give hundreds of thousands of dollars in soft money to the Democratic and the Republican Parties. They do not spend their days hanging outside the Senate Chamber waiting to bend a Member's ear. Unfortunately, it looks as if the industry got to us first. Unfortunately, that is what this is all about. 
   The proponents of this bill argue that people file because they want to get out of their obligations, because they are untrustworthy, because they are dishonest, because there is no stigma in filing for bankruptcy, but any look at the data tells us otherwise. 
   In the vast majority of cases--again, 50 percent of the cases--it is a medical bill that has put people under or the main income earner has lost his or her job. There is a sudden illness, a major injury, major medical expenses, someone has lost their job, there has been a divorce, and what we are saying to these people is: We make it impossible for you to rebuild your lives. But when it comes to the lenders and the credit card companies, oh, it is a very different story. 
   In the interest of full disclosure, something that the industry is not very good at, I want my colleagues to be aware of what the credit card industry is practicing, even as it preaches its sermon of responsible borrowing. After all, debt involves a borrower but also a lender. Poor choices or irresponsible behavior by either party can make the transaction go sour. So how responsible has the industry been? 
   I suppose it depends on how you look at it. On the one hand, consumer lending is terrifically profitable, with high credit card cost lending, the most profitable of all, except for maybe the higher cost credit such as payday loans. I guess by the standard of responsibility to the bottom line, this credit card industry has done a great job. 
   On the other hand, if you define responsibility by promoting fiscal health among families, educating on the judicious use of credit, ensuring that borrowers do not go beyond their means, then it is hard to imagine how the financial services industry could be bigger deadbeats.  
   According to the Comptroller of the Currency, the amount of revolving credit outstanding, the amount of open-ended credit by credit cards being extended increased seven times during 1980 and 1995 and between 1993 and 1997. During the sharpest increase in bankruptcy filings, the amount of credit card debt doubled. It does not sound as if lenders were too concerned about the high number of bankruptcies. At least it did not stop them from pushing credit cards like Halloween candy. 
   All of us know it: Our children are the ones who are solicited; our grandchildren are the ones who are solicited. It is unbelievable. This industry feels no responsibility, it feels no accountability, and in this one-sided, unjust piece of legislation, there is absolutely no standard they are asked to live up to. 
   I again say to my colleagues that the case has been made that we have people in the country who are abusing the system, but I have not seen any report that has reported higher than 13 percent, and the American Bankruptcy Institute says 3 percent. So much for that argument. 
   Then we have an argument that somehow these are people who feel no stigma, feel no shame. I have talked to colleagues--I cannot believe it--and they say: Paul, my gosh, shouldn't people manage their financial affairs, and if they don't, shouldn't they be held accountable? Yes. Pass a piece of 
   legislation that does that, but do not pass a piece of legislation that says to a family which is in difficult, horrible financial circumstances, through no fault of its own, because of a major medical illness or because someone has lost their job or because there is a divorce, do not make it impossible for them to file chapter 7 and then unable to make it through chapter 13 and then essentially live a life of constant debt servitude, a life basically full of debt with no opportunity to rebuild lives. 
   We are stripping away the major safety net, not just for the poor but for middle-class people as well. That is why so much of the religious community opposes this. That is why so many women and children organizations oppose it. That is why every consumer organization opposes it. That is why the civil rights community is opposed to it. 
   The argument is then made that this is a reform piece of legislation. How can it be a reform bill when it is so one sided? How can it be a reform bill when it is so punitive? How can it be a reform bill when, in the name of going after abuse--only a tiny percentage of the population--it casts such a broad net and will make it so difficult for so many families, especially middle-income, low- and moderate-income families headed by women to rebuild their lives? And how can it be called ``reform'' when it is so one sided and does nothing whatsoever to call this credit card industry and these lending institutions to accountability? 
   This legislation is unfortunately perfectly representative of an imbalance of power in America where some people--and I see the Chair is now looking at me. I appreciate that because he extends that courtesy to all of us. I never mean my arguments personally, especially of colleagues I trust at a personal level. In an institutional way, some people march on Washington every day. They are so well connected. They have the lobbyists. They have the money. They make the arguments. They have the prestige. They have the status. And that is what happened here. 
   Up until this Time magazine expose, there were so many stereotypes and a lot of information about this legislation that was not accurate. As it turns out, it is imbalanced; it is unfair; it is unjust; it is too harsh, too punitive, and it is not right. This piece of legislation should not go forward tomorrow. I have tried to make arguments to defend this proposition, and other Senators have as well. 
   What Senator FEINGOLD said is true. In a lot of ways, institutionally, not one on one, this is also an example of an industry that has poured a tremendous amount of money into elections, an industry which has tremendous financial clout. What in the world is someone to do when her family or his family is going under because of a medical illness? Fifty percent of bankruptcy cases are filed as a result of that, and we are going to make it impossible for these people to rebuild their lives? 
   What is someone to do when the low- and moderate-income earners do not have this clout and do not have these connections? What are single-parent homes to do, almost always headed by a woman? 
   We should pass a bankruptcy reform bill, but this does not represent reform. 
   One final thing, and I doubt whether I am going to get any Republican support, but I wish I would. I am not making a payback argument, and if I end up behaving differently, then call me a hypocrite, but this is no way to legislate. 
   In the Senate, minority rights count. You should not be able to take a conference report and then--it is not even a question of putting a provision in, I say to the Chair, that is unrelated to the conference report. In this case, it is a State Department conference report, completely gutted--invasion of the body snatchers--not a word left about the State Department. The only thing left is a bill number. Now it is bankruptcy sent over here. The minority was not even consulted. Senators should vote against cloture for that reason alone because the minority one day is the majority the next and vice versa, and we should respect each other's rights. 
   Someone can say to me: Senator WELLSTONE, you hypocrite. When you were in the majority, you did exactly the same thing; you, Paul Wellstone, were involved. I do not know of this having been done. 
   I cannot remember. I certainly never did it; never would. 
   I appeal to my colleagues on the basis of fairness. You might not agree with me on the substantive arguments--although this bankruptcy bill is now worse than it was before; and I went over two provisions that have been taken out--but you might agree with me just in terms of the rights of a legislator and the way in which this process ought to work. 
   This is an affront to this legislative process. This makes a mockery of this legislative process. This is a reform issue. You wonder why people are so disillusioned and turned off about politics in the country? Here is one good reason why. People do not quite understand how a State Department bill all of a sudden becomes a bankruptcy bill, with a whole new set of provisions put in unrelated to the original bill. And then an effort is made to jam it through here. People do not get that. 
   It might be clever, I say to the majority leader and others, but it does not meet the test of representative democracy. It does not meet the test of the Senate as a great institution. It does not meet the test of what this legislative process should be all about. It does not meet the test of how we can become good legislators and good Senators. For that reason, I hope colleagues will vote against cloture. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I object. We need to have a discussion about this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I don't think I will even need to take 5 minutes tonight. There will be time tomorrow to discuss this conference report. Then, if there should be cloture, we will see. There is also up to 30 minutes for postcloture debate. There are a number of Senators who will have a lot to say about this bill. 
   I make one point tonight for colleagues because there will be plenty of opportunity to talk about it substantively later. This piece of legislation that comes before the Senate is what I call the invasion of the body snatchers. This was a State Department authorization bill that has been completely gutted. There is not one word about the State Department in this bill. The only thing that is left is the bill number. Instead of the bankruptcy bill, it was put into this conference report. This is hardly the way to legislate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to the Senator from New York that is my understanding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This conference report is worse than the bill that passed the Senate. The Schumer provision was taken out. The Kohl provision was taken out. It is absolutely amazing to me that we would try to jam through a bill, which I believe is very harsh toward the most vulnerable citizens, which purports to deal with the abuse--the American Bankruptcy Institute states, at best, a 3-percent abuse--but, at the same time, enables people who have millions of dollars to buy luxurious homes in some States in the United States of America and shield all their assets from bankruptcy. 
   We do great for people who have millions of dollars to buy luxury homes and shield themselves from any liability, but we are going to pass a piece of legislation--and I will have the documentation tomorrow from bankruptcy professors, law professors, and judges across the country that have roundly condemned a piece of legislation that is one-sided--that doesn't call for the credit card companies to be accountable at all, is harsh in its impact on the most vulnerable citizens, is opposed by the civil rights community broadly defined, women's organizations, consumer organizations, labor organizations, and a good part of the religious community because of its one-sidedness. It is so harsh in its impacts on the most vulnerable citizens. I will lay this case out because it claims to deal with the problem of widespread abuse. The American Bankruptcy Institute tells us at best we are talking 3 percent. I have seen no high figures presented by anybody. 
   The bill now is worse than what Senators voted on on the floor of the Senate. Again, the process is absolutely outrageous. A State Department bill, on which hardly anybody was consulted, was completely gutted, and a bankruptcy report put in instead. 
   I hope my colleagues will defeat this piece of legislation. I come to the floor tonight to let Senators know there are a 
   number of Senators ready to debate. We will have much to say tomorrow. If there should be cloture--we will see--we will have much to say after that cloture vote as well. The more people in this country know the substance of this piece of legislation and the outrageous way this is being done, I think the angrier people will become. It is important people in this country know what this piece of legislation is about and the harsh impact it will have on so many citizens--women, low-income people, moderate-income people, working income people. 
   On this conference report, Senators who decided to do this, dared not do anything about a family being able to take millions of dollars and shielding themselves from liability. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my strong support for the passage of H.R.782, The Older Americans Amendments Act of 1999. Even with the support of seniors' advocacy groups, it has taken the Congress a full five years to reach bipartisan agreement on this legislation. We should not miss this opportunity to keep our commitment to our most vulnerable senior citizens. I want to applaud the persistence, commitment, and leadership of Chairman JEFFORDS and Senators DEWINE, MIKULSKI and KENNEDY, their staffs, and other colleagues on the HELP committee who have been unwilling to give up during this long process. 
   With the enactment of the Older Americans Act in 1965, Congress created a new Federal program specifically designed to meet the social services needs of older people. In 1972, Congress added the best known program ``Meals on Wheels'' which brought nutritionally balanced meals to seniors' homes or to seniors in congregate settings. In Minnesota alone, 185,000 seniors benefit from this seniors' meal program. Whenever I talk with seniors or their family members in Minnesota, I hear about this valuable service that provides seniors with necessary nutrition and, in the congregate settings, necessary socialization. 
   On the 35th anniversary of the Older Americans Act, it is fitting that in a bipartisan bicameral manner we vote to continue the Act's broad policy objectives of providing programs related to health, housing, long-term care, employment, retirement, and community services for low and moderate income seniors. I hope the Senate will overwhelmingly pass this legislation, as did the House yesterday, and signal America's continuing commitment to our senior citizens. 
   In addition to Meals on Wheels, this legislation continues the popular senior jobs program which provides financial help for needy seniors, provides them with a sense of meaning and usefulness, and also expands their opportunities for needed socialization. During the 1999-2000 program year, Green Thumb (one of the grantees) in Minnesota has exceeded the major goals set by Congress and the Department of Labor, DOL, for job placement, while serving 1,188 mature job seekers. In addition, Minnesota seniors provided nearly 640,000 hours of community services to almost 500 public and non-profit ``host agencies'', including schools, hospitals, rest homes, libraries, parks, senior dining sites and senior centers, museums, and many more. 
   During this past winter, Green Thumb in Minnesota engaged in a special partnership with the Census Bureau to assist in recruiting older census workers. As a result of Green Thumb's advertising, over 2,700 mature workers were referred to the Census Bureau. With support of the Older  Americans Act, Green Thumb provided job counseling and training to most of these workers. 
   In total, for the 1999-2000 program year, approximately 2,260 Minnesota seniors were placed in jobs through all the grantee programs in the state. Programs like these are invaluable for the seniors involved, for their families, and for communities. We must vote to continue them. 
   This legislation also contains a number of new programs which I wholeheartedly endorse because I believe they will protect seniors and provide support for their families and communities. Most noteworthy is the National Family Caregiver Program which is authorized at $125 million. Minnesota will receive about $1.8 million for the program. The Caregiver Program will provide grants to states for the following long-term care services: information about available services to caregivers, whether they be spouses, children, or grandchildren; assistance to caregivers in gaining access to services; individual counseling; organization of support groups and caregiver training to help families make decisions and solve programs related to their care giving roles; and, perhaps most important of all, respite services to provide families temporary relief from care giving responsibilities. 
   This legislation also authorizes new programs for protection of older women from domestic violence and sexual abuse, rural health care model programs, and computer training. There are also grants to establish multi- disciplinary centers of gerontology to do research and train people in different disciplines to work with the elderly. As our elderly population grows so does the need for appropriately-trained people to meet their health and social needs. 
   Every program in The Older Americans Amendments Act of 1999 is needed and will contribute to the emotional and physical well being of our seniors, those who love them, and the communities in which they live. I urge all of my colleagues to vote for this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Medicare Mental Health Modernization Act, a bill to improve the delivery of mental health services through the Medicare health care system. This improvement and modernization of mental health services in the Medicare system is long overdue, as it has remained virtually unchanged since it was enacted by Congress in 1965. In the 35 years since then, the scientific breakthroughs in our understanding of mental illnesses and the enormous improvements in medications and other effective treatments have dramatically changed our understanding and treatment of mental illness. Yet, the health care systems, both public and private, lag behind in its treatment of this potentially life-threatening disease, one that affects the young and the old. As we work to improve health care for all Americans, in all health care systems, the ever-growing population of older Americans make it all the more urgent that we bring the Medicare system into the 21st century, and bring mental health care to those in need. 
   Though they are so often not recognized, mental health problems among the elderly are widespread and life-threatening. Americans aged 65 years and older have the highest rate of suicide of any population in the United States, and suicide rates increase with age. While this age group accounts for only 13 percent of the U.S. population, Americans 65 and older account for 20 percent of all suicide deaths. All too often, depression among the elderly is untreated or inappropriately treated, and this disease and other illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease, anxiety, late-life schizophrenia, can lead to severe impairment or death. 
   Major depression is strikingly prevalent among older people, with between 8 and 20 percent of older people in community studies showing symptoms of depression. Studies of patients in primary care settings show that up to 37 percent are experiencing such symptoms, although they often go untreated. Depression is not a normal part of aging, but a serious debilitating disease. Almost 20 percent of the population of individuals age 55 and older experience a serious mental disorder. What is most alarming is that most elderly suicide victims--70 percent--have visited their primary care doctor in the month prior to their completed suicide. It is critical that the mental health expertise that is needed be provided within the Medicare system, and that screening, diagnosis, and treatment be provided in a timely manner. 
   Medicare coverage for mental health services is markedly different from other outpatient services. In order to receive mental health care, seniors must pay, out of their own pockets, half the cost of a visit to their mental health specialist, an extremely unfair burden to place on the elderly, who are so often facing other health or life difficulties as well. 
   We know too that substance abuse, particularly of alcohol and prescription drugs, among adults 65 and older is one of the fastest growing health problems in the United States, with 17 percent of this age group suffering from addiction or substance abuse. While addiction often goes undetected and untreated among older adults, aging and disability only makes the body more vulnerable to the effects of these drugs, further exacerbating underlying health problems, and creating a serious need for treatment that recognizes these vulnerabilities. 
   Medicare also provides health care coverage for non-elderly individuals who are disabled, through Social Security Disability Insurance, SSDI. According to the Health Care Financing Agency, HCFA, Medicare is the primary health care coverage for the 5 million non-elderly, disabled people on SSDI. Up to 40 percent of these individuals have a diagnosis of mental illness and/or addiction, and also face severe discrimination in their mental health coverage. 
   What will my bill do? The Medicare Mental Health Modernization Act has several important components. First, the bill reduces this discriminatory 50 percent copayment for mental health care to 20 percent, which is equal to the level that applies to every other outpatient service in Medicare. This is straightforward, fair, and the right thing to do. By doing so, this provision will increase access to mental health care overall, especially for those who currently forego seeking treatment, and instead, find themselves suffering from worsening mental health conditions. Secondly, the bill adds intensive residential services to the Medicare mental health benefit package. This provision will give people suffering from mental illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease or late-life schizophrenia an alternative to going to nursing homes. Instead, they will be able to be cared for in their homes or in more appropriate residential settings. I also ask the Secretary for Health and Human Services to conduct a study of the current Medicare coverage criteria to determine the extent to which people with these forms of illnesses are receiving the appropriate care that is needed. 
   Finally, my bill expands the number of mental health professionals eligible to provide services through Medicare to include clinical social workers and licensed professional mental health counselors. Provision of adequate mental health services provided through Medicare requires more trained and experienced providers for the aging and growing population and should include those who are appropriately licensed and qualified to deliver such care. 
   These changes are needed now. The mental health groups most concerned with medicare improvement are strongly supportive of this bill, including, among others, the American Counseling Association, the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, the National Mental Health Association, the American Psychological Association, the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, and the National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors. The U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher recognized the urgency in his recent reports on mental health: ``Mental Health: A Report of the Surgeon General'' and ``The Surgeon General's Call to Action to Prevent Suicide''. Dr. Satcher stated, ``Disability due to mental illness in individuals over 65 years old will become a major public health problem in the near future because of demographic changes. In particular, dementia, depression, and schizophrenia, among other conditions, will all present special problems for this age group.'' 
   For too long we have continued to neglect those with mental illness in  our society, and the Medicare system is no exception. I urge your cosponsorship of this bill as we begin our work in this new century. It is time to treat the elderly in our society, particularly those with serious, debilitating diseases, with the care, respect, and fairness they deserve. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to offer a few remarks on the fiscal year 2001 VA-HUD Appropriations bill. 
   First, I would like to commend my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for doing some excellent work on this bill. Many important housing initiatives--including housing assistance for the elderly and disabled, the HOME Investment Partnership Program, the Community Development Block Grant, Housing for People With AIDS, and the Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Program--will all receive funding increases under this bill in fiscal year 2001. Furthermore, an additional 79,000 Section 8 vouchers will be funded under this bill. These are all critical programs, program that help low-income working families find safe and affordable housing, and the authors of this bill should be commended for recognizing the need to continue to  fund these programs at the appropriate levels. 
   Having said this, though, I would also like to take a few minutes to express my disappointment that this bill does not include funding for a housing production incentives program, despite the fact that the need to produce more affordable housing in this country is critical. Unfortunately, a Senate provision which would have used $1 billion in excess Section 8 funds to pay for the production and preservation of affordable housing failed to make it into the final conference report. Yet many of the programs that are funded in this bill, including Section 8 housing assistance, only work when affordable housing units are available. It does low-income working families no good whatsoever to be given a rent voucher when they can't find an apartment on which to spend it. 
   As it is written, this bill fails to address one of the most important problems underlying the current affordable housing crisis: the rapid erosion of this country's affordable housing stock. Every year, in fact, every day, we see the demolition of old affordable housing units without seeing the creation of an equivalent number of new affordable housing units. And while there can be no question that some of our existing affordable housing units should be demolished, we have yet to meet our responsibility to replace the old units that are lost with new, better, affordable units. We must do a better job of this, for our current policy simply results in too many displaced families, families who are forced to sometimes double-up or even become homeless in worst-case scenarios, overburdening otherwise already fragile communities. 
   The National Low Income Housing Coalition reports that right now there are a record 5.4 million households, 12.5 million people, that pay more than one half of their income in rent or live in seriously substandard housing. Who are these people? One and a half million are elderly, 4.3 million are children, and between 1.1 and 1.4 million are adults with disabilities. Waiting lists for housing assistance are longer than ever, and there are still far too many people who simply lack shelter altogether--an estimated 600,000 people are homeless in this country on any given night. 
   The fact is that incomes for our poorest citizens are simply not keeping pace with the increase in housing costs. A July 1998 study by the Family Housing Fund found that in Minneapolis-St. Paul rents increased 13 percent from 1974 to 1993 while real incomes declined by 8 percent. They found that there were 68,900 renters with incomes below $10,000 in the Twin-Cities and only 31,200 housing units with rents affordable for these families. That means that there were more than two families for every affordable unit available, and the situation has only gotten worse since then, as the vacancy rate has plummeted to below two percent. 
   Housing is usually considered to be affordable if it costs no more than 30 percent of a household's income. In the Twin Cities area, however, 185,000 households with annual incomes below $30,000 pay more than this amount for their housing. Knowing this, it isn't hard to understand why the number of families entering emergency shelters and using emergency food pantries is on the rise. 
   This situation certainly isn't unique to Minneapolis-St. Paul. Out of Reach 2000, a recent publication by the National Low Income Housing Coalition, finds that the cost of housing is exceeding the reach of low-income families across the country. This study estimates that the national ``housing wage''--a measure that represents what a full-time worker must earn to afford fair market rent, paying no more than 30 percent of their income--for a 2 bedroom apartment is $12.47 an hour, more than twice the minimum wage. The report notes that in no county, metro area, or state is the minimum wage as high as the corresponding housing wage for a 1, 2, or 3 bedroom home at the fair market rent; in more than half of metropolitan areas, the housing wage is at least twice the federal minimum wage. 
   Such high rents are, of course, fueled at least in part by the shortage of housing. Demand for housing exceeds the supply, so rents spiral upwards, far beyond the reach of the poor and often well-beyond the reach of the middle class who find themselves priced out of the very communities in which they grew up. The shortage of affordable housing is so drastic that in Minneapolis-St. Paul, like many other cities, even those families fortunate enough to receive housing vouchers cannot find rental units. Landlords are becoming increasingly selective given the demand for housing and are requiring three months security deposit, hefty application fees, and credit checks that price the poor and young new renters out of the market. 
   In my own State of Minnesota, a family must earn $11.56 an hour, 40 hours a week, 52 weeks out of the year to afford the fair market rent for a two-bedroom apartment, more than double the minimum wage. That's more than double the minimum wage. This means that a person earning the minimum wage in Minnesota would need to work 90 hours a week in order to afford a two bedroom apartment at the fair market rent. Here's the real secret of why so many single parents are in poverty, because it has become impossible for one parent, one worker, to support a family on the bottom rung of the economic ladder. 
   So what happens to those families who are unable to earn $11.56 an hour? Families with a single worker at minimum wage who cannot work 90 hours? The answer is no secret, and is unfortunately too common in all parts of our country. These families quite simply can't afford adequate housing. Instead, families crowd into smaller units, a one bedroom, an efficiency. Sometimes these families double up, two or more families in a home, with multiple generations crowded under one roof. When the stress of multiple families becomes unbearable, they are left with no other option than homeless shelters. Families rent seriously substandard housing, exposing their children to lead poisoning and asthma, in neighborhoods where they don't feel safe allowing their children to play outdoors. They rent housing with leaky roofs, bad plumbing, rodents, roaches, and crumbling walls. 
   And even for such substandard housing, many families find themselves forced to pay more than the recommended 30 percent of their income in rent, sometimes spending more than half of their income on housing costs. Families in this situation must then ``cut corners'' in other ways, sometimes doing without what others might consider necessities. Not luxuries like cable television, but necessities: gas, heat, electricity, food, or medical care. This is simply unacceptable. In an era of such tremendous economic prosperity, no family should have to choose between food and shelter, or heat and medical care. 
   In a recent study of homelessness in Minneapolis-St. Paul, the Family Housing Fund reported that more and more children are experiencing homelessness. On one night in 1987, 244 children in the Twin Cities were in a shelter or other temporary housing. By 1999, 1,770 children were housed in shelter or temporary housing. Let me repeat that: 1,770 children in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area on one night alone spent the night in a homeless shelter or temporary housing. That's seven times as many homeless children in 1999 than in 1987. And families are spending longer periods of time homeless. If they had a family crisis, if they lost their housing due to an eviction, if they have poor credit histories, if they can't save up enough for a two or three month security deposit, they will have longer stretches, longer periods of time in emergency shelters before they transition into homes. 
   Let me provide a stark and disturbing example of the desperate need for affordable housing in this country: for six days in February of this year, the Minneapolis Public Housing Authority distributed applications for families interested in public housing. They distributed applications for only six days, and then stopped entirely. This was the first time since 1996 applications were accepted for public housing and it is likely to be the last time for several years to come. Mr. President, 6,000 families sought applications for public housing in those six days --an average of 1,000 families each day requesting public housing in one metropolitan area. This is not free housing. Residents would be required to pay one-third of their income in rent. This is not luxury housing. Many families  seem to look upon public housing with disdain, though I know those communities are rich with the talents and contributions of their tenants. This is not even immediate housing. Many of those families will wait years to get into public housing. 
   Surely this should tell us there is a huge housing crisis. One thousand families a day sought to pay one-third of their income in rent to live in public housing in one metropolitan area. Surely, if this tells us anything, it tells us we must do more. 
   Mr. President, I know this Nation is prosperous. I know we can afford to solve this problem. We can afford to take this step today. We must make a commitment to address the shortage of affordable housing. Although we were not able to include funding for housing production initiatives in this appropriations bill, it is my hope that each of my colleagues will join me next year in assuring that this critical need is met. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to take a few moments. I know Senator KENNEDY is here on the floor, and I believe Senator FEINGOLD may be coming down as well. In any case, I want colleagues to know next week when we do get back to the bankruptcy bill, whenever it is, there are a number of Senators who are ready to speak on this bill and go into its substance. 
   I think the 100-0 vote is an indication that we do not mind going forward with the bill, but we do intend to speak about this legislation because the more people know about this legislation, the more likely Senators will vote against it. We certainly intend to have the debate, and if there is a cloture vote next week--there may or may not be--we intend to do everything we can to defeat this legislation. We have time to debate this legislation next week. If it goes to beyond cloture, we will have more hours then to debate this legislation. Let's take one step at a time. 
   I will point out to Senators the process first, and then we will go to substance. I do not know whether or not this is an argument that wins with the public. The argument about this bankruptcy bill on substance wins with the public. We have had some discussion about the scope of the conference and rule XXVIII. 
   This was a State Department authorization bill. We had an ``invasion of the body snatchers'' where all of the content dealing with State Department reauthorization has been taken out and bankruptcy has been put in. It is a clear abuse of the legislative process. I doubt whether any Senator who views himself as a legislator can be comfortable with the way we are proceeding. 
   I believe there are many Senators who are going to want to speak about this outrageous process. I do not know if I have ever seen anything like this where we have a State Department reauthorization bill conference report that is hollowed out, gutted completely, and replaced by the bankruptcy reform bill conference report. It is unbelievable. It is beyond anything I ever imagined could go wrong in the Senate. It is a way to jam something through, but in one way I can understand why the majority leader and others would try to jam this through because the content, the actual legislation itself, is so egregious. 
   I simply point out to Senators that there is not one word, not one aspect of this legislation--next week I will have a chance to talk a lot about it; we will talk a lot about this legislation--there is not one word, not one provision, not one sentence, not one section which holds credit card companies or large banks accountable for their predatory practices. There is no accountability whatsoever. 
   We have nothing in this legislation that holds them accountable, but what we do have is legislation that, first of all, rests on a faulty premise. The bill addresses a crisis that does not exist. We keep hearing these scare statistics, which, by the way, do not jibe with the empirical evidence that there has been all these increased bankruptcy filings. In fact, bankruptcy filings have fallen dramatically over the last 2 years. 
   We have heard about the abuse. The American Bankruptcy Institute points out that, at best, we are talking about 3 percent of the people who file chapter 7 who actually could pay 
   back their debts; 3-percent abuse, and for 3-percent abuse, what we are doing is tearing up a safety net for middle-income people, for working-income people, for low-income people who are trying to rebuild their lives. 
   Do we do anything about health care costs? No. Is the No. 1 cause of bankruptcy medical bills? Yes. Do we do anything about raising the minimum wage? No. Do we do anything about affordable housing? No. Do we do anything about affordable prescription drugs for elderly people? No. But the banking industry and the credit card industry get a free ride, and we pass a piece of legislation which is so harsh that it will make it difficult for middle-income people, much less low-income people, to rebuild their lives. 
   Hardly anybody abuses this. No one wants to go through bankruptcy. People are doing it because there is a major illness in their family. They are doing it because somebody lost their job. They are doing it because of some financial catastrophe. When people today try to rebuild their lives, we come to the floor of the Senate with a piece of legislation basically written by the credit card industry, written by the big financial institutions. They are the ones with all the clout. They are the ones with all the say. 
   I say to my colleagues, it is not coincidental that every civil rights organization opposes this; that every labor organization opposes this; that almost every single women's and children's organization opposes this; that the vast majority of the religious communities and organizations oppose this. 
   Today we had a vote to proceed, but next week there will be an all-out debate and we will focus on the harshness of this legislation, the one-sidedness of this legislation. By the way, this legislation in this hollowed out sham conference report is worse than the legislation that passed the Senate. 
   Now we have a bill that says to women, single women, children, low- and moderate-income families: You are not going to be able to rebuild your lives; we are going to pass a piece of legislation that is going to make it impossible for you to rebuild your lives even when you have been put under because of a huge medical bill, no fault of your own. At the same time, for those folks who have lots of money, if they want to go to one of the five States where they can put all their money into a $1 million or $2 million home, they are exempt; they are OK. 
   This is what the majority party brings before the Senate. It is unbelievable. No wonder they have to do it through this ``invasion of the body snatchers'' conference report. They take a State Department conference report, gut it, take out every provision that deals with the State Department reauthorization, and put in a bankruptcy bill that is even more harsh than the one that passed the Senate that is anticonsumer, antiwomen, antichildren, antiworking people and I think anti some basic values about fairness and justice. 
   I hope next week--I do not hope, I know--there will be a sharp debate, and we are prepared to debate this; we are prepared to use every single privilege we have as Senators to fight this tooth and nail. 
   And next week there will be a long, spirited discussion about this piece of legislation. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleagues for their support for H.R. 5234, which I introduced in the Senate as S. 3060. I am so pleased that the Senate will pass this critical legislation. It will ensure that widows and widowers of Hmong veterans who died in Laos, Thailand and Vietnam are also covered by the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act. This critical change applies fairness to the law so that widows, like spouses of surviving veterans, will be able to take the United States citizenship test with a translator. 
   The United States owes a great debt to the widows of Hmong veterans. During the Vietnam War, in the covert operations in Laos, they sacrificed everything they had in service to this country. It is almost impossible to imagine the impact of the Vietnam War on the Hmong Community in South East Asia. Hmong soldiers died at ten times the rate of American soldiers in the Vietnam War. As many as 20,000 Hmong were killed serving our country. When adults were killed, children as young as twelve and thirteen rose up to take their place. When Hmong soldiers died, they left behind families with no means of support. They left their loved ones to fend for themselves in a hostile country. 
   Because of the covert nature of the United States Operations in Laos, the heroics and sacrifice of this community long went unrecognized. By facilitating the naturalization of Hmong widows, we offer small compensation, but tremendous thanks and honor to people who gave us their lives and livelihoods. Twenty five years later, we cannot give them back their loved ones, though their loved ones gave their lives for us. All we can do is we honor their service in a way that is long overdue and give them the tools to become citizens in the nation for which they heroically fought, and died. 
   No one in Congress understood better what we owe to the Hmong community than my old and dear friend, Congressman Bruce Vento. No one here did more for the Hmong people. He dedicated himself to ensure that Hmong and Lao veterans and their families received the honor and respect that was so long deserved and too long delayed. One of the many great legacies of his life will indeed be his work with the Hmong community in Minnesota. I wish to honor him today for that dedication and for that deep respect and compassion. But there is no tribute I can deliver that would bring him more greater pride than when 45,000 Hmong veterans, widows and spouses whom he was one of the first to recognize as American heroes, become American citizens. 
   I thank my colleagues again for their support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I will only take 5 minutes if that is all right with him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would rather the Senator keep some time, so 5 minutes will be fine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of this agriculture appropriations bill. While it is clear there are some significant shortfalls with regard to the prescription drug re-importation issue, which I will speak about later, on balance this legislation will provide much needed help to family farmers, rural communities, and low income families. 
   I am pleased this legislation includes substantial emergency assistance, $3.6 billion, directed to family farmers in Minnesota, and across the nation, who are suffering from natural disasters, historically low prices and increasingly concentrated markets which have largely been brought on by the failed 1996 Freedom to Farm Bill, or as I call it the Freedom to Fail Act. 
   Specifically this legislation will provide $1.6 billion to producers who have been devastated by lost crops due to natural or weather related disasters. In my state of Minnesota, 7 to 10 inches of rain fell in early June in the Red River Valley, which destroyed what promised to be a bumper crop, and has forced hundreds of family farmers to clean up flood damages for the eighth consecutive year. The Minnesota Farm Service agency tell us that almost 400,000 acres of crops have been destroyed in Minnesota. While crop insurance will cover some of the losses, this additional emergency assistance will be necessary for many family farmers in the region. 
   This part of Minnesota, largely dependent on a poor farm economy, has been devastated by successive years of floods that have forced many off the farm. And this rain storm affected other areas of my state including localized portions of Southeast Minnesota. Overall twelve counties in Minnesota have been affected by major disasters and experienced major crop losses. 
   It is vitally important that this disaster aid get out to producers quickly. However, it is also vitally important that we take some action to deal with the root problems in agriculture policy. 
   As many of my colleagues know, the 1996 farm bill has proven to be a total failure. By destroying any safety net for family farmers and capping loan rates at artificially low levels, the 1996 bill has left farmers vulnerable to the sever economic and weather related events of the past three years, resulting in devastating income losses. And while the premise of the Freedom to Farm bill was to ``get the government out of agriculture'' the Federal government has been forced to spend more on disaster packages--over $25 billion--over the last four years than was supposed to be spend through the seven year life of the law. 
   Again this year, Congress has failed to address the impact of plummeting farm incomes and the ripple effect it is having throughout rural communities and their economic base. I can assure my colleagues that if we do not write a new farm bill early next year, if the only help family farmers get from Washington is unreliable, long delayed emergency aid bills that are distributed unfairly, family farmers are not going to survive. 
   Family farmers deserve a targeted, counter-cyclical loan rate that provides a meaningful level of income support when the market price falls below the loan rate. Lifting the loan rate would provide relief to farmers who need it and increase stability over the long term. We also need to institute farmer-owned reserve systems to give farmers the leverage they need in the marketplace, and conservation incentives to reward farmers who carry out conservation measures on their land. We need a new farm bill. 
   In addition to the failed farm bill, I have found that family farmers rank the lack of competitive markets as a major factor to explain the price crisis that is devastating rural America. While there can be no argument that the majority in Congress has failed to pass, or even consider, legislation, such a I and others have proposed, to deal with the rash of agribusiness mega-mergers, this appropriations bill has taken some positive steps. 
   Included in this legislation is an increase in the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyard Administration's, GIPSA, budget to fund essential programs that ensure competitive markets and fair prices for our independent livestock producers. I am pleased to say that this increase, which I had proposed during Senate consideration of the Agriculture appropriations bill, will result in an increase of $4.151 million over the Senate approved bill. 
   As many of my colleagues know, this is essential funding that will help bolster GIPSA's market concentration activities. For several years, livestock producers have expressed their concern over evermore concentrated markets, as well as extreme frustration over what they perceive as inadequate governmental action to ensure fair and competitive markets. Consequently, GIPSA has been asked to assume a more prominent role in ensuring competitiveness and fairness in the livestock industry. GIPSA is conducting a growing number of investigations on market concentration in agriculture, within shorter time frames, using increasingly sophisticated economic and legal analysis. 
   Examples of what this money will be used for include: anti-competitive behavior investigations; rapid response teams that are utilized for time sensitive issues that require expeditious investigations to protect small family producers; and a contract library that will be used to catalogue each type of contract offered by packers to producers. 
   This appropriations bill also contains vital emergency assistance for small independent dairy producers. H.R. 4461 will provide $473 million in direct income relief payments to family dairy farmers throughout the nation. The money is targeted to small- and medium-scale farms who are in the midst of a price crisis as a result of the wild price fluctuations we have been seeing for the past few years. 
   Mr. President, in my state of Minnesota, dairy production is truly one of the cornerstones of our economy. We have 8,700 dairy farms in Minnesota, ranking us fifth in the nation in dairy production. The average herd size of a Minnesota dairy farm is about 60 cows. Family agriculture is not just an important element of our states heritage, it is vital to our future. But right now, dairy farmers in Minnesota and throughout the country need relief. Therefore, I am pleased this legislation includes a provision, which I joined the Senators from Wisconsin in proposing, to provide $473 million in targeted emergency payments to dairy farmers nationwide. 
   I continue to see the urgency of this is aid, especially as we in Minnesota lose dairy farms at a rate of three per day. This will put money in the pockets of dairy farmers soon, when they need it, not a year from now when many of them will have already sold their cows. However, it is, like last year's funding, merely a bandage to stop the bleeding. Dairy farmers everywhere need meaningful policy reform. In order to achieve a fair, sustainable and stable long term price, we need a dairy price support program that is set at a level sufficient to curb the current market volatility. 
   In addition, H.R. 4461 contains significant increases in rural development programs to help rural communities make it through these difficult economic times. Furthermore, I am pleased the bill contains a provision I added to provide $3 million in grants to promote employment of rural residents through teleworking. Telework is a new method of doing work that will allow information technology jobs to be a part of diverse, sustainable rural economies while helping IT employers find skilled workers. Specifically, telework is the use of telecommunications technology, like the Internet, to perform work functions over a distance instead of at the traditional workplace of the employer. This provision will allow rural communities to access federal resources to implement locally designed proposals to use telework as a tool for rural development. This represents a critical opportunity for diversification and revitalization of rural economies. 
   This bill also takes some important first steps to ensure that all low-income families receive the food stamps they need to prevent hunger and ensure  adequate nutrition. The bill incorporates an amendment I offered to require a study in the next 180 days so we can learn what obstacles families face when they try to get food stamps, as well as why the rolls have declines so dramatically in recent years. There is a growing sense that the Food Stamp 
   Program is not functioning adequately in assisting working poor families and helping to ``make work pay.'' Although eligibility for food stamps is no longer tied to welfare receipt, the dramatic declines in the cash assistance rolls appear to have resulted in large numbers of eligible low-income families failing to receive the food stamp assistance for which they qualify, including many families who have moved from welfare to work. This study will help us understand the kinds of policy and program implementation decisions we need to make in order to better ensure that working poor families in this country are not going hungry. 
   The bill also includes two provisions from the Hunger Relief Act--one which will raise the vehicle allowance, and one which will raise the shelter cap deduction, for families receiving food stamps. This provision means that working parents who are dependent on a car to get to and from work will still be able to get the food stamps that they need, and parents who spend more than 50 percent of their income on rent because they live in communities that lack available affordable housing will also now be better able to get the food stamps that provide critical nutritional supports for themselves and their children. This is a very important first step, and I now hope that we will see the remaining provisions in the Hunger Relief Act enacted before the end of this session. In particular, it is critical that we restore food stamp benefits to post-96 legal immigrants as soon as possible. 
   Mr. President, now let me turn to the prescription drug import provision which is included in this conference report. This is legislation designed to correct the injustice that finds American consumers the least likely of any in the industrialized world to be able to afford drugs manufactured by the American pharmaceutical industry because of the unconscionable prices the industry charges only here in the United States. 
   Mr. President, I meet with many constituents, but none with more compelling stories than senior citizens struggling to make ends meet because of the high cost of prescription drugs--life-saving drugs that are not covered under the Medicare program. Indeed, it is shameful that this Congress has failed to enact a prescription drug benefit under Medicare available to all beneficiaries. 
   But the issue is not just Medicare's lack of coverage. The unfairness which Minnesotans feel is exacerbated by the high cost of prescription drugs here in the United States--the same drugs that can be purchased for frequently half the price in Canada or Mexico or Europe. These are the exact same drugs, manufactured in the exact same facilities with the exact same safety precautions. Minnesotans know this because they can drive to Canada and see the price differentials for themselves. 
   Driving to Canada every few months to buy prescription drugs at affordable prices isn't the solution, nor is it an option for most Americans. 
   That is why I introduced with Senator Dorgan the International Prescription Drug Parity Act, and with Senator Jeffords the Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act, two bills designed to amend the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow American pharmacists and distributors to import prescription drugs into the United States as long as the drugs meet the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) strict safety standards. Under these proposals, pharmacists and distributors would be able to purchase these drugs--often manufactured right here in the U.S.--at lower prices overseas and then pass the huge savings along to American consumers. 
   This legislation has evolved quite a bit through the legislative process. Early in that process there had been two constants: bipartisanship in seeking lower prices for American consumers and opposition every step of the way by a pharmaceutical industry bent on preserving profits. 
   We were on the verge of producing a strong bipartisan final result until the process was hijacked by the Republican leadership. Rather than a bipartisan bill that would guarantee Americans the opportunity to share in lower drug prices which are available everywhere else in the world, Republicans fell in line with the pharmaceutical industry and shut the door on closing loopholes which would protect the rights of American consumers to affordable, safe prescription drugs. 
   Following after their leadership, Republican members of the Agriculture 
   appropriations conference committee ditched the bipartisan process, jettisoned legislative language that would have assured American consumers access to affordable drugs, and left open for the pharmaceutical industry loopholes that could defeat the purpose of this legislation. 
   What language was unilaterally rejected by the Republicans? First, was a provision that would have required manufacturers to provide access to their FDA-approved U.S. labels. Currently, when drugs are reimported to the United States by drug companies, they must be relabeled with the FDA approved label. This new provision would have assured other importers access to those required labels. Without that requirement, manufacturers could stonewall importation by not providing the labels. Second, was a provision that prevents manufacturers from entering into agreements with their foreign distributors that interfere with the resale of prescription drugs back into the United States. 
   Either of these loopholes could prevent the reimportation of prescription drugs, which is why they should never have been allowed to remain in the final bill. The Secretary of Health and Human Services is given broad authority to draft regulations to facilitate importation of FDA-approved prescription drugs, which gives me some hope. But the Secretary's authority does not lessen my outrage or that of my Democratic colleagues about the process which resulted in those major loopholes going unaddressed. It is unfortunate that the productive bipartisanship which had prevailed during the past year to pass this bill was discarded in the last, critical hours. 
   This needn't have happened. There was an effort when the conference met to close the loopholes, ensuring that the pharmaceutical industry could not make en end run around the effective implementation of this bill. But, given the choice of standing with American consumers, especially America's senior citizens, or the most profitable industry in America, Republicans chose the industry that has sought to undermine this bill from the start. 
   While I am saddened about the missed opportunity to produce a stronger, water-tight legislative product, I do believe the present bill is an improvement over the status quo, and continues to have the potential for lowering prescription drug prices here in the United States. If however, the pharmaceutical industry takes advantage of the Republican-tolerated loopholes, then I will be back next year with legislation to close those loopholes and make this law work. 
   Mr. President, again, I intend to support this agriculture appropriations bill. I thank my colleagues on the floor, Senator COCHRAN, Senator KOHL, Senator HARKIN, and others for their very good work. 
   I speak as a Senator from an agricultural State. I want mention the emergency assistance. It is much appreciated. We have gone through some difficult times. We have had flooding and we have had scab disease, and that on top of record-low prices and record-low farm income, which has led to a lot of economic pain. I thank my colleagues for their very good work. 
   Second of all, let me especially thank Senator KOHL and Senator HARKIN for their work. I had an amendment on the floor to get some additional money for GIPSA. They helped me in conference committee. I thank Senator COCHRAN as well. I really want GIPSA to be about the work of looking at the problem of concentration of power. So many of our livestock producers are not getting a fair shake. The IBPs and ConAgras of this world are muscling their way to the dinner table and muscling family farmers off the farm. I think it is important that GIPSA be able to look at this whole problem of an increasing concentration of economic and, I argue as well, political power.  
   Third of all, let me thank Senator KOHL, in particular, for his fine work on some direct income relief payments for dairy farmers. I think we have about 473 million nationwide. We have 8,700 dairy farmers in the State of Minnesota. Again, record-low prices have been a nightmare for these farmers. I thank Senator KOHL for his good work. I am proud to be a part of this. 
   There is also in this bill a provision that I think is historically significant. It only starts out with $3 million, and this is going to be done within USDA, obviously. This is going to be a telework program where we will try to set up some models, centers of distance learning, whereby farmers and other rural people with strong ethics and who want to work are going to be able to get training and be connected with information technology companies and find employment at good wages but do it out of farm, out of home, or satellite office--do the telework. 
   I think this is one of the most important things we have in this bill. I am very excited about it. Many people in Minnesota who transcend all political boundaries helped on this. 
   Let me also thank in particular Senator HARKIN. He fought it out in conference committee, getting us back to the Food and Nutrition Service--going out there and after 180 days in the field came back with a report telling us why there has been such a steep decline in food stamp participation. The Food Stamp Program is a major safety net program to make sure children do not go hungry. We want to know why there has been such a severe decline in participation. I wish there had been a 30-percent decline in poverty in this country. There has been no such decline. There has been a dramatic rise in food shelters and pantries. We know a lot of people are not getting the help they need. 
   I thank my colleagues for supporting this issue. I thank Senator KENNEDY for his fine work on the Hunger Relief Act. 
   Senator COCHRAN has a longstanding commitment to these issues as well. 
   I think it is important that we do some revisions when it comes to shelters, as well as dependency on car and transportation in allowing more people to be eligible for food stamp assistance. 
   Finally, on the International Prescription Drug Parity Act, I don't know that I am in complete agreement with Senator HARKIN, but I know what he is saying. 
   I did this amendment with Senator JEFFORDS and Senator DORGAN, originally. I think when it went to the conference committee there was some effort to make sure we would tighten it up. In particular, I think there is a concern that the pharmaceutical companies will make it difficult, for example, for the Canadians to be involved in a reimportation of those drugs back to this country. I think we could have done better on the language. I think there are too many loopholes. 
   I am disappointed the way this conference was done. I think this is a step forward. But I would like to have seen much more. 
   I certainly think you have to have prescription drug benefits added onto Medicare if you are going to really provide the help people need. I think we should have done more. 
   I thank Senator JEFFORDS for the work he has done on this amendment. I was proud to be a part of it. 
   We have to write a new farm bill. We have to focus on getting farmers a decent price in the marketplace. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will my friend form Wisconsin yield for the purpose of a colloquy regarding the telework provision of the conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The Senate adopted an amendment to the Agriculture appropriations bill that directed $3 million to be spent for employer outreach, education, and job placement under the USDA/Rural Utilities Service Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program (DLT). The conferees have changed this provision to report language. 
   We have a tremendous need in our rural communities to take advantage of today's technology and information revolution. I believe, because it essentially allows distance to be erased, telework is a promising tool for rural development and for making rural and reservation economies sustainable. I would ask my colleague if it is his understanding that the Senate's intent can be carried out by USDA Rural Development under existing authority. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I appreciate this clarification, and I ask my colleagues' indulgence for one further question. Would it also be correct that USDA Rural Development should promote employment of rural residents through teleworking not only through the use of the DLT Program, but also through other programs such as the rural business and the Community Facilities Program? These programs might allow funds to be used to provide employment-related services or high speed communications services which may be necessary to make telework a reality in rural communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask consent to engage in a colloquy with my colleague, Senator KOHL, the ranking member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development and Related Agencies. In particular, I would like to discuss the Department of Agriculture's solid waste management grant program, funded as a line item within the utilities section of the Rural Community Advancement Program. Authorized in section 310B(b) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, these grants allow public agencies and nonprofit organizations to provide technical assistance to local communities for reducing water pollution and improving solid waste management. 
   I ask the Senator, whose State is a neighbor of mine, whether he agrees with, and whether it is his understanding that the subcommittee would support, my urging USDA to direct up to $1 million of the solid waste management grants to the regional, nonprofit, technical assistance organizations known as Rural Community Assistance Programs. These organizations have done an outstanding job serving the smallest, poorest and hardest to serve rural communities in the Midwest and across the country. The Rural Community Assistance Programs are key partners within USDA's Rural Community Advancement Program. Their nationwide network of technical assistance providers--serving water and wastewater system needs for thousands of rural communities--is highly qualified and well placed to improve the effectiveness of rural solid waste management. 
   For example, the regional Rural Community Assistance Program which serves my State of Minnesota is the Midwest Assistance Program (MAP). Based in New Prague, MN, MAP serves nine midwestern States. The organization has carried out solid waste projects in collaboration with USDA, the Indian Health Service, and with individual tribes in communities throughout the region. MAP is now beginning to target assistance to Minnesota communities for the development of small transfer stations, to improve recycling and better manage solid waste. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   October 18, 1999: Michelle Alexander, 21, Charlotte, NC; Earl Baker, 22, St. Louis, MO; Karlton Cannon, 30, Chicago, IL; Michael Jones, 49, Knoxville, TN; Kenneth Pastuszak, 28, Detroit, MI; Brian Webster, 26, Detroit, MI; and Unidentified Male, 45, Honolulu, HI. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to speak about S. 623, the Dakota Water Resources Act of 2000, as amended by this critical amendment currently pending before the Senate. 
   Over the last two years, I have worked to preserve and protect Minnesota's precious water rights and resources, in consultation with a number of my Republican and Democratic colleagues, and to ensure that the concerns expressed about the original bill by those in my state were taken into account as this legislation was developed. While it does not resolve the roughest underlying issues--indeed it does not even attempt to resolve them--I believe this amendment takes into account those concerns, and I appreciate the willingness of my distinguished colleagues from North Dakota to accommodate their neighbors to the east. 
   It is clear this legislation, as amended by Senators BOND, CONRAD, and DORGAN, is a very different bill than the one which was originally introduced. While I, along with the State of Minnesota, had serious reservations about the original version, in the past year my office has conducted extensive consultations and discussions with Minnesota Department of Natural Resources water officials, who have indicated that the amended version of this legislation--at least the sections which apply to Minnesota interests--is a reasonable measure which meets their concerns. I agree that the key elements of this legislation, in which I have been most interested, will now simply provide for a comprehensive and unbiased review of the water quality and quantity needs of the Red River Valley, and of the environmental implications of any proposed water transfers--either within the basin or on an inter-basin basis--and thus I have not objected, as I did to earlier requests, to bringing it to the Senate floor for consideration. There are other parts of the bill, as amended, which primarily affect existing or planned facilities in North Dakota, which have not raised concerns in my state. 
   The amended bill does not pose the same concerns about biota transfer, inter-basin transfer, and water quality that I, and the State of Minnesota, had raised in forceful objection to the original legislation. In fact, it explicitly requires prior Congressional action and approval before any inter-basin transfer can be made. Under the bill, only after careful, reasoned study by the Secretary of the Interior--including extensive consultation with all of the interested stakeholders on the water quality and quantity needs of the Red River Valley, the various portions for meeting those needs, and the environmental implications of any further steps to address them--would Congress even consider an inter-basin transfer of water, which I and others would continue to oppose. Let me restate that, because it's important: this legislation would preclude any transfer of water from the Missouri River or its tributaries to the Red River Valley, unless specifically authorized by a future Act of Congress, thus allowing concerns of biota transfer, inter-basin transfers and water quality to be discussed and fairly resolved by all the parties involved beforehand. 
   As many of my colleagues know, I have long opposed the original version of this legislation. I would continue to oppose any attempts to transfer water into the basin without adequate safeguards--if such safeguards can be devised, which is not at all clear. Many of my original concerns, and those of the state of Minnesota, including especially the Department of Natural Resources, remain about the detrimental environmental effects and potential adverse precedents of an inter-basin transfer. Even so, I recognize the real needs of our neighbors in North Dakota to resolve their continuing water problems, and I believe that the study provided for in this bill may help to further that effort. I believe this legislation represents a reasonable effort to move the process forward, while protecting the rights and resources of those in my state and elsewhere in the Upper Midwest. I commend my colleagues for their hard work and determination over these many years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President. I rise to speak about a provision in the VA, HUD and Independent Agencies Appropriations bill, which was passed by the Senate today. Specifically, I want to speak about the substantial backlog of civil rights claims that have been filed with the Environmental Protection Agency's, EPA, Office of Civil Rights, OCR. 
   As my colleagues know, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 provides that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. For thirty-five years, this law has been a cornerstone of our nation's civil rights protections. To better implement Title VI in federal environmental programs, President Clinton issued an Executive Order in 1994 requiring each federal agency ``to make achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing, as appropriate, disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority populations.'' 
   Under EPA's Title VI implementing regulations, 40 CFR Section 7, EPA-funded permitting agencies are prohibited from taking actions in the permitting process that are intentionally discriminatory or have a discriminatory effect based on race, color, or national origin. Under these regulations OCR is required to ``promptly'' investigate all complaints filed under Title VI unless all parties agree to a delay [40 CFR Section 7.120]. OCR is first required to initiate complaint proceedings within 5 days of receipt of a complaint [40 CFR Section 7.120(d)]. Then it must review the complaint for acceptance, rejection, or referral to another agency and make a determination within 25 days of the receipt of the complaint [40 CFR Section 7.120(d)(1)]. If a complaint is accepted, EPA must make a preliminary finding in the matter, including recommendations, if any, for achieving voluntary compliance, and OCR must notify the recipient of these finding within 180 days of the start of the complaint investigation. [40 CFR Section 7.120(d)(2)]. 
   Unfortunately according to the OCR's most recent log of cases filed on October 4, 2000, 103 Title VI claims have been filed since September 1993. Of these, over half, 56 cases, are still pending. The remainder were either rejected or dismissed over jurisdictional issues. Eleven of the still active cases have been pending for 5 years or more, without resolution. Only one case has been resolved by a decision of the OCR, which found that there was not a legally recognizable ``adverse impact'' on the community and denied the community's request for reconsideration. 
   To further complicate resolution for these civil rights claims, in 1998 a rider was inserted in the VA-HUD Appropriations bill that blocked the implementation or administration of the interim Guidance to enforce Title VI claims issued on February 5, 1998. This rider has effectively stopped the EPA from investigating and responding to claims of race or national origin discrimination that have been filed with the Agency after October, 1998. That same rider has been on all subsequent VA/HUD bills, including this one. 
   This summer the EPA revised it's Guidance, which was noticed in the Federal Register for public comment. The revision is titled ``Draft Revised Guidance for Investigating Title VI Administrative Complaints Challenging Permits.'' I am pleased that the rider,  included in this VA/HUD Appropriations bill, would not apply to the EPA's revised Guidance. 
   However a there still remains a large backlog of cases to be acted upon. There were 35 complaints filed after the first rider in 1998. To date only one has been accepted for investigation. Although the step of acceptance or rejection is required under Federal Regulation within 25 days of the receipt of the complaint, 34 of these complaints are more than 25 days old and over half of them, 20 of 34 cases, have been ``under review'' for more than a year. 
   The EPA's own regulations are clear, regardless of any Guidance. Furthermore, the rider does not account for the entire backlog of unresolved complaints. There are still 21 complaints pending that were filed before the rider blocking the EPA's 1998 Guidance went into effect. Of these cases, 19 have been accepted, but no preliminary findings have been made. Two cases are still under review after 4 1/2 years, and as you will recall the deadline in the federal regulations for accepting cases is 25 days from the initial complaint date. And again, half of the still active cases,--11 of 21--have been pending for 5 years or more, without resolution. 
   It appears the EPA is out of compliance with it's own regulations for processing civil rights complaints, both for cases filed before and after the effect of the rider. While the rider has no doubt been a hindrance to the Agency, it clearly does not absolve the Agency of its responsibilities under the 36 year old civil rights law. And the Agency's own regulations lay out a clear framework for processing and acting on complaints. 
   Several environmental and civil rights organizations have written to Congressional leaders on this backlog. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a letter to the VA, HUD and Independent Agencies Subcommittee from the NAACP, and a letter from the Earthjustice Legal Defense Fund be entered into the RECORD following my statement. 
   In closing, I am pleased the Administration appears to be working to finalize the revised Guidance. However, I remain concerned that the EPA has established no clear way of dealing with the backlog of civil rights claims that have built up over the past seven years. 
   Therefore, as a Senator from Minnesota, I call on the EPA, as expeditiously as possible, to resolve the many backlogged civil rights claims, several of which have been pending for years. Only then will we be able to fulfill the intent of the landmark 1964 Civil Rights Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that following the Senator from Virginia and the Senator from Michigan, I be allowed to speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if my colleague will yield for 30 seconds, I know other colleagues want to respond, but I say to my colleague from New York in as sincere a way as I can, I thought his words were powerful and eloquent. They were beautifully written, beautifully said, and very important. I want to associate myself with him. I know I can't speak on it as well as the Senator did, so I associate myself with what he said. It is just the way I think about it and feel about it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I do not want to break up the flow of my colleague. I am pleased to follow the Senator from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me again thank Senator WARNER of Virginia for his statement about the crew of the U.S.S. Cole. My understanding is four American sailors have lost their lives, others have been injured. As a Senator from Minnesota, I want to express my support and my concern. I do not think we have as yet knowledge of who is behind this. It certainly looks like a well-planned terrorist attack, but I echo the words of my colleague from the State of Virginia. 
   The chair of the committee, Senator WARNER, and the ranking minority member, Senator LEVIN, are two of the best Senators in the Senate. Therefore, I want to speak with a little bit of humility because I don't want this to come off as arrogant. I want to express my opposition to this bill. I don't think there will be many opposed, but I want to give this at least my best effort. 
   Let me start out with my own framework. I believe part of the definition of real national security for our Nation is a strong military, but I also think part of the definition of real national security is the security of our local communities--whether it is affordable housing, whether it is affordable child care, whether it is good health care for citizens, or whether we have the best education for every child. It is within this framework that I rise to speak against this bill. 
   The bill provides $309.8 billion for the military. That is $4.5 billion more than the administration's request and $19 billion above fiscal year 2000 levels. Yet the majority party could not find the additional money for more school counselors, could not find additional money for Head Start. One of the scandals is we keep talking about how important the early years are, we keep talking about how important the Head Start Program is to give children a head start. Yet I think we provide funding for about 3 or 4 percent of the children who could benefit from the Early Head Start Program. 
   The majority party could find the additional $4.5 billion, above and beyond the administration's request, but they could not find the additional money for affordable housing. They could not find additional money up to this time for prescription drug benefits for elderly people. It is a matter of priorities. I think as long as our country is first in the world when it comes to spending on the military but ranks 10th in the world when it comes to spending on education, we will never achieve our strength and our greatness. 
   The cry for more money, the rallying cry from some of my colleagues for more Pentagon funding, was for readiness. We have heard about the crisis in  readiness, lack of spare parts, inadequate training funds, difficulty retaining pilots and other key personnel, declining quality of life. I am all for the part of this budget that increases funding in these decisive areas. But if you look at the category of spending with the largest increase from fiscal year 2000 to fiscal year 2001, it is procurement of weapons. It is not military readiness, with an 11-percent increase; or operations and maintenance, which funds most of the readiness programs, which goes up 4 percent; or family housing, on the other hand, which actually declines by 3 percent; military construction declines by 6 percent. These figures are from the Pentagon budget authority. 
   But the real increase in the funding--if you look at fiscal year 1999 to fiscal year 2005, procurement increases 39 percent. This is the largest increase in this Pentagon budget. In fact, 53 percent of the increase in budget authority during this 6-year period goes to new weapons. 
   I have to ask the question in this post-cold war period, in an opportunity to redefine some of our priorities and to redefine national security and to have a strong military, but also to make sure that we concern ourselves with national security as in the security of local communities--good education, good health care, good jobs, affordable housing. It seems to me this budget does much more for the military contractors than it needs to do, is beyond the President's request. And, frankly, we are in a zero sum game. You cannot have it all. Money spent in one area is money not spent in another area. 
   I believe that overall what we have before us in this piece of legislation, and the amount of money it calls for, for the Pentagon and military, reflects some distorted priorities. 
   It is for that reason I will oppose this conference report. 
   Related to this question I have raised about budget priorities is an amendment which was dropped from the conference report. This was an amendment I offered, which was accepted, which asked that we in the Congress do a careful study of child poverty under welfare ``reform'' to find out how children are doing, to find out whether not only has there been a decrease in poverty of children but among those children who are poor--from the last report we received--we have an increase in poverty among children who are poor. I wanted us to do an honest policy evaluation. 
   Over the last 2 years I have offered this amendment four or five times, and every time it is dropped in conference committee--every single time. It seems to me we would want to know, as we move into the reauthorization of the welfare bill, what this dramatic decline in the welfare roll means. Any fool can throw people off the welfare rolls. That is easy. The question is, Where are the mothers and where are the children and are they better off? 
   Some I think are better off. For that I am grateful. Some have living-wage jobs and can support their families, and that is what it was supposed to be about. But I am telling my colleagues, I traveled some of the country--I am going to do more over the next 2 years because obviously we need to know what is happening out there--and it is my observation that the vast majority of the women and children are in the following situation: These women are working but now they are working poor. These jobs do not provide anywhere close to our salaries or even close to what would be called a living wage; in other words, on what they can support their families. 
   From the studies of Families USA and what I have seen with my own eyes, too many of these women no longer have medical assistance for themselves and their children and in all too many situations--Yale and Berkeley did a study on the child care situation--2- and 3-year-olds--these are mothers with children--are in child care situations which at best are inadequate and quite often are dangerous. 
   We have seen, roughly speaking, a 25- to 30-percent decline in food stamp participation, the major safety net for poor children. 
   I want to know what is happening out there. I would think colleagues would want to know, but sometimes we do not want to know what we do not want to know. 
   For the fourth or fifth time, this amendment has been dropped, and I have come to the floor to express my opposition to the dropping of this amendment. The majority party found $4 billion more than the administration requested, I am sorry, but is unwilling to do an honest policy evaluation of the welfare bill, its effect on children, the poverty of children, and whether we can do better for poor children. That is a misplaced priority. 
   When we come back next year--we will be moving into the period of time of reauthorization of this welfare bill--one of my commitments as a Senator from Minnesota is to do everything I can to focus the Senate, Democrats and Republicans, on an honest policy evaluation of what is happening to poor women and poor children in our country. 
   I can think of better uses for some of this money in the Pentagon budgets as opposed to new weapons systems, for example. 
   I can see putting more into child care. I can see putting more into education. I can see putting more into expanded health care coverage. I can see putting more into affordable housing. I can see putting more into making sure there is long-term care so elderly people are able to stay at home and live at home with dignity as opposed to being forced into nursing homes. I can see some other priorities. 
   The Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which was passed by the Senate as an amendment, was taken out of the conference. In the United States of America, surely we as a people no longer accept the proposition that a citizen can be killed or injured because of his or her race, national origin, religion, gender, disability and, yes, sexual orientation. 
   Not that long ago, James Byrd was dragged to death by the most vicious of racists, and he was killed for only one reason: He was black. 
   It was less than a year ago that two men were killed and three others were injured in Pittsburgh when a gunman shot them down for only one reason: They were white. 
   It was only a few months before that when a man went on a shooting spree in Chicago aiming at people for one reason and one reason alone, and that was because they were either black, Asian or Jewish. 
   Let's not forget Matthew Shepard who was killed in Wyoming for one reason and one reason only: He was gay. 
   The amendment we adopted in the Senate with 57 votes and was taken out of this conference report would have permitted Federal intervention in serious violent crimes. In addition, the crimes that would have been covered would have included gender, disability, and sexual orientation. 
   There is not one Senator who can say that Matthew Shepard was not murdered because of hate. By failing to keep this amendment in this conference report, we have communicated a message that says we still tolerate these hate crimes; we are not willing to take strong action. 
   The majority party took that amendment out of this conference report. The majority party took the hate crimes amendment out of this conference report, and I think we have communicated a terrible message to the country. 
   Hate crimes are a kind of terrorism. They are not just meant to intimidate the victim but all those who belong to the group and make all of the people victims. They are meant to instill fear. They are meant to communicate the idea that one group of people has supremacy over others. They are meant to dehumanize people. They say not just to the victim but to all those who are like the victim: You are vulnerable and you could be next because you are gay, lesbian, transgender, or bisexual; you could be next because of your disability; you could be next because of your religion; you could be next because of the color of your skin; you could be next because of your national origin. And they took this amendment out of this conference report. I believe that is shameful, and that is another reason I am going to vote against this conference report. 
   Mr. President, I have 30 minutes reserved. How much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Alabama, I will take a couple more minutes to speak on one  other related issue, not so much to this conference report. 
   While I am on the floor of the Senate, I express my disappointment--I have to do this with a little bit of a twinkle in my eye--at the eleventh hour attempt by some of my colleagues to ram through--and this is not, I say to the Senator from Virginia, in this conference report; this is separate--an ill-conceived, unjust, and unbalanced ``bankruptcy reform'' through the Senate by co-opting an unrelated conference report, although I am not surprised. 
   The fact that the House and the Senate Republican leadership is willing to trample the traditions of the Senate in their rush to pass this legislation speaks to the tremendous clout and the financial resources of the financial services industry. 
   Make no mistake about it, that is why I say I have to have a twinkle in my eye. This is a tactic straight out of ``Invasion of the Body Snatchers.'' Listen to this. House and Senate Republicans have taken a secretly negotiated bankruptcy bill--I am sorry; I do no damage to the truth when I say this--and they have stuffed it into a hollowed-out husk of the State Department authorization bill. Not one provision of the original State Department bill remains. 
   Of course, the State Department authorization is the last of many targets. The majority leader has talked about doing this on an appropriations bill, on a crop insurance bill, on the electronic signature bill, on the Violence Against Women Act. So desperate are we to serve the big banks and the credit card companies that no bill has been safe from this controversial baggage. 
   Colleagues, there is no question that this is a significantly worse bill than the one that passed the Senate. In fact, there is no pretending that this bill is designed to curb real abuse of the bankruptcy code. 
   Does the bill take on wealthy debtors who file frivolous claims and shield their assets in multimillion-dollar mansions? No. Let me repeat that--no. It guts the cap on the homestead exemption which was adopted by the Senate. Nor does this bill contain another amendment adopted by the Senate, that Senator SCHUMER worked on, that would prevent violators of the Fair Access to Clinic Entrances Act--which protects women's health clinics--from using the bankruptcy system to walk away from their punishment. 
   Indeed, colleagues, this legislation would deny a fresh start to low- and moderate-income families who file bankruptcy out of desperation. It has an arbitrary test making it very hard for people to go to chapter 7. But at the same time, this legislation has no balance, does not hold the credit card industry accountable, does not hold the financial institutions accountable. It has now been stuffed into a hollowed-out State Department bill, and it is going to come over to the Senate, I suppose, sometime around Wednesday. 
   I just want to say--I could go into all of the detail, but I will not--should the majority leader follow through on this strategy, I announce I will use my procedural rights as a Senator, of course, as any other Senator would, to slow down this conference report. The conference report would be hard to stop, but we could take at least a couple of days of the Senate's precious remaining time to consider the ramifications of this legislation on working families. 
   And finally---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to hear from my colleague from Virginia. 
   To expedite matters, included with my statement about this so-called bankruptcy reform bill I just will include a letter from the White House. This is from John Podesta, announcing that the President will veto this bankruptcy bill that has been stuffed into a hollowed-out State Department authorization bill. The President just makes it clear that none of the fundamental problems with this piece of legislation has been addressed and that he fully intends to veto this. I thank the White House for their very strong support. The President is doing the right thing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
   Mr. WARNER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Senator from Virginia was gracious enough to say I may want to respond. Other colleagues want to speak, and I believe the exchange between my two colleagues covered the ground and spoke to the question I raised. If I had spoken, I would have said what Senator LEVIN said. I just wouldn't have said it as well. I appreciate the forthrightness of the Senator from Virginia, his directness and, as always, his intellectual honesty. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to be able to change my vote to ``no.'' It does not change the outcome, most definitely. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Chair. 
   I thank my colleague, Senator BROWNBACK, for his very gracious remarks. It has been an honor to work with him on this legislation. I think a very strong friendship has come out of this effort. There are some times when we can work and reach out and have the most interesting and I hope important coalition. Working with Senator BROWNBACK, Sharon Payt, and Karen Knutson has been the best legislative work. At the end of the day, I believe today we will pass this legislation. Members can feel they have done something really good. They can make a positive difference. I thank Senator BROWNBACK for his great leadership and his great work for each step along the way. In all the negotiations, all the work that has been done, the Senator has been there. I thank the Senator. 
   I want to talk about Charlotte Oldham-Moore and Jill Hickson, who have worked with me and our staff, who have done a great job. There are other people who will be on the floor who put this together--especially the Violence Against Women Act--Senator LEAHY, Senator BIDEN, Senator HATCH, and others, and SAM GEJDENSON and CHRIS SMITH have been phenomenal. I thank them for their yeoman work on the House side. I also thank Frank Loy and Harold Koh at the State Department for their work. 
   The trafficking of human beings for forced prostitution and sweatshop labor is a rapidly growing human rights abuse. It is one of the greatest aspects of the globalization of the world economy. The Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 is the first piece of legislation to address the widespread practice of the trafficking of men, women, and children into sweatshop labor and sexual bondage. 
   My wife Sheila urged me to do something about this problem several years ago. Consequently, she and I spent time with women trafficked from the Ukraine to work in brothels in Western Europe and the United States. They told us after the breakup of 
   the Soviet Union and the ascendancy of the mob, trafficking in women and girls became a booming industry that destroyed the lives of the youngest and most vulnerable in their home countries. 
   We began work on the bill then, and 3 years later, after extraordinary bipartisan effort, tremendous leadership from Senators BROWNBACK and LEAHY, and SAM GEJDENSON and CHRIS SMITH, and others, it passed the House with a vote of 371-1. Now it is poised to pass the Senate. 
   Our Government estimates that 2 million people are trafficked each year. Of those, 700,000 women and children, primarily young girls, are trafficked from poor countries to rich countries and sold into slavery, raped, locked up, physically and psychologically abused, with food and health care withheld. Of those, as many as 50,000 immigrants are brought into the United States each year, and they wind up trapped in brothels, sweatshops, and other types of forced labor, abused and too fearful to seek help. 
   Traffickers exploit the unequal status of women and girls, including harmful stereotypes of women as property and sexual objects to be bought and sold. Traffickers have also taken advantage of the demand in our country and others for cheap, unprotected labor. For the traffickers, the sale of human beings is a highly profitable, low-risk enterprise as these women are viewed as expendable and reusable commodities. 
   Overall, profit in the trade can be staggering. It is estimated that the size of this business is $7 billion annually, only surpassed by that of the illegal arms trade. Trafficking has become a major source of new income for criminal rings. It is coldly observed that drugs are sold once while a woman or a child can be sold 10 or 20 times a day. 
   In the United States, Thai traffickers who incarcerated Thai women and men in sweatshops in El Monte, CA, are estimated to have made $8 million in 6 years. Further, Thai traffickers who enslaved Thai women in a New York brothel made about $1.5 million over 1 year and 3 months. 
   Last year, Albanian women were kidnapped from Kosovo refugee camps and trafficked to work in brothels in Turkey and Europe. Closer to home, organized crime has trafficked Russian and Ukranian women into sexually exploitive work in dozens of cities in the United States of America. Just next door, law enforcement authorities suspected mafia involvement in the gruesome murder of a Russian woman trafficked to Maryland. 
   All of these cases reflect a new condition: Women whose lives have been disrupted by civil wars or fundamental changes in political geography, such as the disintegration of the Soviet Union or the violence in the Balkans, have fallen prey to traffickers. 
   Seeking financial security, many innocent persons are lured by traffickers'  false promises of a better life and lucrative jobs abroad. Seeking this better life, they are lured by local advertisements for good jobs in foreign countries at wages they could never imagine at home. However, when they arrive, these victims are often stripped of their passports, held against their will, some in slave-like conditions, in the year 2000. 
   Rape, intimidation, and violence are commonly employed by traffickers to control their victims and to prevent them from seeking help. Through physical isolation and psychological trauma, traffickers and brothel owners imprison women in a world of economic and sexual exploitation that imposes a constant threat of arrest and deportation, as well as violent reprisals by the traffickers themselves to whom the women must pay off ever-growing debts. That is the way this works. 
   Many brothel owners actually prefer foreign women, women who are far from help and from home, who do not speak the language, precisely because of the ease of controlling them. Most of these women never imagined they would enter such a hellish world, having traveled abroad to find better jobs or to see the world. 
   Many in their naivete believe nothing bad can happen to them in the rich and comfortable countries such as Switzerland or Germany or the United States. Others are less naive, but they are desperate for money and opportunity. But they are no less hurt by the trafficker's brutal grip. 
   Trafficking rings are often run by criminals operating through nominally reputable agencies. In some cases overseas, police and immigration officials of other nations participate and benefit from the trafficking. Lack of awareness or complacency among government officials such as border control and consular offices contributes to the problem. Furthermore, traffickers are rarely punished, as official policies often inhibit victims from testifying against their traffickers, making trafficking a highly profitable, low-risk business venture for some. 
   Trafficking abuses are occurring not just in far-off lands but here at home in America as well. The INS has discovered 250 brothels in 26 different cities which involve trafficking victims. This is from a CIA report. This is the whole problem of no punishment--being able to do this with virtual impunity. 
   In a 1996 trafficking case involving Russian and Ukrainian women who answered ads to be au pairs, sales clerks and waitresses, and were forced to provide sexual services and live in a massage parlor in Bethesda, MD, the Russian-American massage parlor owner was fined. He entered a plea bargain and charges were dropped with the restriction that he would not operate a business again in Montgomery County. The women, who had not been paid any salary and were charged $150 for their housing, were deported or left the United States voluntarily. There was no charge at all. 
   Teenage Mexican girls were held in slavery in Florida and the Carolinas, and they were forced to submit to prostitution. 
   Russian and Latvian women were forced to work in nightclubs in the Midwest. According to charges filed against the traffickers, the traffickers picked the women up upon their arrival at the airport, seized their documents and return tickets, locked them in hotels and beat them. This is in our country. The women were told that if they refused to work in sexually exploitive conditions, the Russian Mafia would kill their families. Furthermore, over a 3-year period, hundreds of women from the Czech Republic who answered advertisements in Czech newspapers for modeling were ensnared in an illegal prostitution ring. 
   Trafficking in persons for labor is an enormous problem as well. The INS has also worked on cases involving South Asian children smuggled into the United States to work in slavery-like conditions. In one case, about 100 Indian children, some of them as young as 9 or 10, were brought into New York and shuffled around the country to work in construction and restaurants--ages 9 and 10, in the United States; today, in the United States--2000. 
   Some of the children appear to have been sold by their parents to the traffickers. In Woodbine, MD, a pastor bought Estonian children, ages 14 to 17, promising them they would 
   attend Calvery Chapel Christian Academy, but then forcing them to clean roach-invested apartments and to do construction. The children worked 15 hours a day. The children were threatened and punishments included denial of food and being forced to stand in one spot for prolonged periods. 
   The bitter irony is that quite often victims are punished more harshly than the traffickers because of their illegal immigration status, their serving as prostitutes, or their lack of documents, which the traffickers have confiscated in order to control the victims. 
   A review of the trafficking cases showed that the penalties were light and did not reflect the multitude of human rights abuses perpetrated against these women. 
   In a Los Angeles case, traffickers kidnapped a Chinese woman, raped her, forced her into prostitution, posted guards to control her movements, and burned her with cigarettes. Nevertheless, the lead defendants received 4 years and the other defendants received 2 and 3 years. That is what they received. 
   In a tragic case involving over 70 Thai laborers who had been held against their will, systematically abused, and made to work 20-hour shifts in a sweatshop, the seven defendants received sentences ranging from 4 to 7 years with one defendant receiving 7 months. 
   In another case where Asian women were kept physically confined for years with metal bars on the windows, guards, and an electronic monitoring system, and were forced to submit to sex with as many as 400 customers to repay their smuggling debt, the traffickers received 4 years and 9 years--in the United States of America, in the year 2000. 
   I thank Senator BROWNBACK for his work. It is important. 
   A review of the trafficking cases showed that the penalties were light and they did not reflect the multitude of the human rights abuses perpetrated against these women. The statutory minimum for sale into involuntary servitude is only 10 years, whereas the maximum for dealing in small quantities of certain drugs is life. 
   Let me repeat that. The statutory minimum for sale into involuntary servitude is only 10 years, whereas the maximum for dealing in small quantities of certain drugs is life. 
   Few State and Federal laws are aimed directly at people who deliver or control women for the purpose of involuntary servitude or slavery in sweatshops or brothels. Consequently, prosecutors are forced to assemble cases using a hodgepodge of laws, such as document fraud and interstate commerce, and accept penalties that they believe are too light for the offense. Up until this legislation, there was no way for the prosecutors to go after these traffickers. 
   The Victims of Violence and Trafficking Protection Act of 2000 establishes, for the first time, a bright line between the victim and the perpetrator. It punishes the perpetrator and provides a comprehensive approach to solving the root problems that create millions of trafficking victims each year. 
   This legislation aims to prevent trafficking in persons, provide protection and assistance to those who have been 
   trafficked, and strengthen prosecution and punishment for those who are responsible for the trafficking. It is designed to help Federal law enforcement officials expand antitrafficking efforts here and abroad, to expand domestic antitrafficking and victim assistance efforts, and to assist nongovernment organizations, governments and others worldwide, who are providing critical assistance to victims of trafficking. It addresses the underlying problems which fuel the trafficking industry by promoting public antitrafficking awareness campaigns and initiatives in other countries to enhance economic opportunity, such as microcredit lending programs and skills training, for those who are most susceptible to trafficking, and have an outreach so women and girls as young as 10 and 11 know what they might be getting into. 
   It also increases protections and services for trafficking victims by establishing programs designed to assist in the safe reintegration of victims into their communities and ensure that such programs address both the physical and mental health needs of trafficking victims.  
   Imagine what it would be like to be age 12 or 13, a young girl, to go through this. We have, in Minnesota, the Center for the Treatment of Torture Victims. It is a holy place. I have had an opportunity to meet with staff and meet with many men and women who have been helped by this center. These girls, these women, have gone through the same living hell. 
   This legislation also increases protections and services for trafficking victims by providing community support. Furthermore, the bill seeks to stop the practice--and this is so important. I am sitting next to Senator KENNEDY who has done so much with the immigration work. This bill seeks to stop the practice of immediately deporting the victims back to potentially dangerous situations by providing them with some interim immigration relief. Victims of ``severe forms of trafficking,'' defined as people who were held against their will--``for labor or services through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage or slavery''--would be eligible for a special visa letting them stay in the country at least through the duration of their captors' prosecution, and perhaps permanently.*****-*****- -Name: -Payroll No. -Folios: -Date: -Subformat: 
   Right now, if you are a Ukrainian girl or woman in a massage parlor in Bethesda, and you step forward to get some help, you are deported. The trafficker is hardly prosecuted. The victim is automatically deported. This provides temporary visa protection. 
   I will give an example. In a 1996 trafficking case involving Russian and Ukrainian women who had answered ads to be au pairs, sales clerks, and waitresses but were forced to provide sexual services and live in a massage parlor in Bethesda, MD, 2 miles from here, the Russian American massage parlor owner was fined. He entered a plea bargain and charges were dropped with the restriction that he would not operate his business again in Montgomery County. The women, who had not been paid any salary, were forced into prostitution, and were charged for their housing, were deported. 
   This legislation toughens current Federal trafficking penalties, criminalizing all forms of trafficking in persons and establishing punishment commensurate with the heinous nature of this crime. The bill establishes specific laws against trafficking. Violators can be sentenced to prison for 20 years to life, depending on the severity of the crime. Yes, if you are trafficking a young girl and forcing her into prostitution, you can face a life sentence. They can also be forced to make full restitution to their victims, paying them the salary that would have been due for their months or years of involuntary service. 
   This bill requires expanded reporting on trafficking, including a separate list of countries which are not meeting minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. 
   It requires the President to suspend ``nonhumanitarian and nontrade'' assistance to only the worst violators on the list of countries which do not meet these minimum standards and who actively condone this human rights abuse. This is a major piece of human rights legislation. This is a major human rights bill. 
   These are the rare governments which are openly complicit in trafficking people across their borders. It allows the Congress to monitor closely the progress of countries in their fight against trafficking, and it gives the administration flexibility to couple its diplomatic efforts to combat trafficking with targeted enforcement action. Finally, the bill provides three generous waivers. 
   By passing the Victims of Violence and Trafficking Act today, this Chamber will take a historic step toward the elimination of trafficking in persons. 
   Thanks to the partnership of Jewish and Evangelical groups, women and human rights organizations, and others, we will take a historic and effective step against organized crime rings and corrupt public officials who each year traffic more than 2 million people into desperate, broken lives of bondage and servitude. 
   Something important is in the air when such a broad coalition of people, including Bill Bennett, Gloria Steinem, Rabbi David Sapperstein, Ann Jordan, and Chuck Colson work together for the passage of this legislation. I am thankful for their support, I am thankful for the support of the administration, and I am thankful for your support today in seeking to end this horrible, widespread, and growing human rights abuse. 
   By way of conclusion, I say to my colleagues, starting with Senator BROWNBACK, I believe with passage of this legislation--I 
   believe it will pass today and the President will sign it--we are lighting a candle. We are lighting a candle for these women and girls and sometime men forced into forced labor. I also think because of the work of so many in the House and the Senate, this can be a piece of legislation that other governments in other parts of the world can pass as well. This is the beginning of an international effort to go after this trafficking, to go after this major, god-awful human rights abuse, this horrible exploitation of women, sometimes men, and of girls. 
   I am very proud of this legislation. I thank my colleague from Kansas. I thank other colleagues as well. 
   Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. The other part of this legislation that is so significant, and I know colleagues are here to speak about it, is the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. I want to reserve time to speak about that very important piece of legislation. For me, to see both of these bills pass and to see it happen today is one of the best days I can have in the Senate. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from New Jersey and the Senator from Florida for their excellent work. I want to take a moment to engage in a colloquy with Senator BROWNBACK to clarify a phrase in division A of the bill. In order to be eligible for the visa provided, the traffic victim would be required to prove she would face ``extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm.'' 
   This is a new standard under the Immigration and Nationality Act. Can the Senator explain why this new standard was created? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator for his clarification. 
   We have been talking about the trafficking legislation. Before a final vote, I want to get back to that legislation. I think it is such an important human rights effort. 
   I will talk about the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act and make a couple of points. Again, to have a vote on legislation that goes after this egregious practice of trafficking of women and girls for the purposes of forced prostitution and forced labor is important to our country and to the world. Then to have reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act also makes this a doubly important bill. I am so pleased to be on the conference committee and to be able to be a part of helping to make this happen. 
   I thank Senator BIDEN, I thank Senator HATCH, and I thank Senator LEAHY and others, for including in this bill authorization for what we call safe havens or safety visitation centers. Let me explain by way of example from Minnesota. I need to honor these children, and I need to honor their mother. Anyone from Minnesota will remember the case of Alex and Brandon, seen in this picture; two beautiful boys. It was these two boys and what happened to them that made me understand the importance of safety visitation centers more than anything else that could ever have happened.  
   On July 3, 1996, Brandon, who was 5, and Alex, who was 4, were murdered by their father during an unsupervised visit. Their mother, Angela, was separated from Kurt Frank, the children's father. During the marriage, she was physically and emotionally abused. Angela had an order of protection against Kurt Frank, but during the custody hearing she requested her husband not be allowed to see the children in unsupervised settings. The request he see the children only in supervised settings was rejected by the judge. Kirk Frank was able to see his sons with no supervision. When he did, and God knows why, he killed them. We have a center now, that the community supports, which is a safety visitation center. 
   The point is this: There are two different examples. Say a woman has been battered. And please remember, every 13 seconds a woman is battered in the country. Say she has had the courage to get away, to end this marriage. There is a separation going on and a divorce; you are still not necessarily going to say the father can't see the child, but if the father comes to the home to pick up the child, he steps inside the home and then battering can start again. There is no protection. If you can do it at the safe havens, supervision centers, you can protect the woman and you can protect the children. 
   Or it might be the case where you are worried about the threat of a father to the children, but you cannot say a father 
   can't see the child; with a supervised visitation center the father can see the children there. 
   This is really important. We are working very hard right now with Senator HOLLINGS to get some funding. I am pleased this is a part of this legislation. 
   I say to colleagues, this was the work of Jill Morningstar on my staff, who, with my wife Sheila, made a lot of progress. It is so important to reauthorize. The hotline is important; the training for police is important; the support for law enforcement is important; the support for battered women shelters is so important for the people who are there in the trenches. All of this matters. The focus on rural communities and support in rural communities is important, as well. It has made a difference, a big difference. 
   In my State of Minnesota, this year already 33 women have been murdered. Each case is an example of ``domestic violence.'' Last year, in the whole year, it was only 28. The year is only half over and we have already had 33 women who have been murdered. Clearly, we are going to have to do a lot more. To reauthorize this bill today is a huge victory. 
   Mr. President, I think it should whet our appetite to do much, much more. I am absolutely committed to making sure we do more to provide some support for children who witness this violence in their homes. These kids run into difficulty in school. These kids, quite often, run into trouble. These children are falling between the cracks and there is no real support for them. 
   There is another piece of legislation--and I hope to get it in the bill--I am very excited about Day One in Minnesota where we want to make sure all of the shelters are electronically wired so with one call to the hotline, a woman will know where she and her children can go. 
   Rather than calling, being told there is no space, and then not knowing where to go, it should only take one call. That is very important. 
   Then, there is a whole set of initiatives that would enable women to be more independent, to get more support to be more independent--whether it be affordable housing, whether it be family and medical applied to women in this situation, whether it be more job training--you name it. This will enable women to be put in a position where they are not unable or unwilling to leave a very dangerous situation for themselves and their children. 
   I say to colleagues, I am so pleased we are going to pass this conference report with an overwhelming vote. I am pleased to be a part of helping to work out this agreement. But I also think clearly, more than anything else, this ought to make us more determined to do much more. Again, about every 13 seconds a woman is battered in her home today in our country. 
   I will take a little more time to talk about the trafficking bill, since both these bills are linked together, to again make the point for all my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans alike, it is critically important to vote for this conference report, to keep this conference report intact. 
   I will keep thanking Senator BROWNBACK. It has been great to work with him. I thank him for his fine work. 
   We are talking about 50,000 women, girls, trafficked to our country. We are talking about 2 million worldwide. We are talking about women, sometimes girls as young as 10 or 11, coming from countries where there is economic disintegration. They are trying to figure out a way they could go somewhere and they are told they could become waitresses. They are told there is a job. 
   When they arrive, their visas are taken away from them; they are beaten; they don't know the language; they don't know their rights; and they are forced into prostitution. We had a massage parlor 2 miles from here in Bethesda which was staffed mainly by Russian-Ukraine women. That is one example. This is one of the grimmest aspects of the new global economy. It is, in many ways, more profitable than drugs because these women and girls are recyclable. It is that God-awful. In the year 2000, this legislation is the first of its kind in this country. It is a model for many other governments around the world. 
   We put a focus on three ``P's'': No. 1, prevention, getting the outreach work done to other nations so these young girls and women will know what they are getting into and have some understanding what these traffickers are about. No. 2, protection, so when a girl steps forward, then she is not the one who pays the price. Right now there is no temporary visa protection so if you were to try to get out of this you are the one who is deported. In the meantime, these traffickers go without any punishment, which is something I want to get to in a moment. So you want to provide that protection. You also want to provide services for these young women to be able to rebuild their lives after they have been through this torture. It is torture. And finally, No. 3, prosecution. Right now our law enforcement community tells us they want to go after them but they do not have the laws. What we are saying is, if you are involved in this trafficking, you are going to face stiff sentences. If you are involved in the trafficking of a girl under the age of 14, you can face a life sentence. So there is 
   a very strong part of the provision dealing with punishment. 
   We also have a listing of countries where this is happening, with a special focus on governments that are complicit in it. The President can take action against those governments, but there are also security waivers and other waivers. It is a balanced piece of legislation. I am proud of it. I think it will make a difference. 
   I think it is terribly important. I read some of these examples before. Let me give a couple of examples right now of what is happening in the year 2000. 
   In Los Angeles, where traffickers kidnapped a Chinese woman, raped her, forced her into prostitution, posted guards to control her movements, and burned her with cigarettes, the lead defendant received 4 years and the other defendants received 2 to 3 years for this offense. 
   In another case where Asian women were kept physically confined for years, with metal bars on the windows, guards and an electronic monitoring system, and were forced to submit to sex with as many as 400 customers to repay their smuggling debt, the traffickers received between 4 and 9 years. This is the year 2000 we are talking about. 
   Then I gave the example of a 1996 trafficking case involving Russian and Ukrainian women who would answer ads to be au pairs, sales clerks, and waitresses but were forced to provide sexual services and live in a massage parlor in Bethesda, MD. The Russian-American massage parlor owner was fined. He entered a plea bargain, the charges were dropped, with the restriction he would not operate a business again in Montgomery County. The women, who had not been paid any salary and were charged $150 for their housing, were deported or left the country. 
   This is what we are dealing with right now. There was a case involving  70 deaf Mexicans that my colleagues may remember, who were held under lock and key, forced to peddle trinkets, who were beaten and in some cases tortured. The leader received 14 years and the other traffickers from 1 to 8 years. 
   We intend to take this more seriously. Let me give one other example. The United States v. Hou, several Mexican nationals, all illegally in the United States, were required to live in one of the chicken sheds at an egg ranch. The shed was open to the elements. The defendants, man and wife, did not give the men any shelter, but encouraged them to build a small room out of cardboard and styrofoam egg cartons. 
   The men lived less than 15 feet from the chickens they tended. The men had to spread powerful pesticides in and around the chicken sheds, and the chemicals and various fuel oils were stored immediately next to their cardboard room. Faulty wiring in the rickety building resulted in a fire. One of the workers was killed as he tried to escape the shed and another suffered horrible burns. Despite the atrocious conditions, there was no evidence that the men had been kept in the defendants' service through threats of force or violence; the men stayed in the shed because Ms. Hou preyed upon their lack of English-speaking ability and lack of immigration status, deliberately misleading the victims and convincing them there was nowhere else to go. 
   Because the labor of the workers was maintained through a scheme of nonviolent and psychological coercion, the case did not fall under the involuntary servitude statutes--which could have resulted in life sentences given the death of one of the victims. Our legislation changes that. That is why this legislation is so important. No longer in the United States of America are we going to turn our gaze away from this kind of exploitation, to this kind of murder of innocent people. 
   This is a real commitment by the Senate and the Congress to defend human rights. This is a good piece of legislation. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I know my colleague, Senator BROWNBACK, wants to speak as well. Let me thank Senator BIDEN for his great leadership as well. We are very proud we were able to work this out and do trafficking and the reauthorization for the Violence Against Women Act together. Let me thank him for safe visas. He was kind enough to mention my wife Sheila. That was really an initiative on which she has been working. I was so pleased to see that in this bill. 
   Let me also say to my colleague, as much as I appreciate the work of the Senator from Tennessee, I want to make the point that this is not about the rule 28 scope of conference. I think the Chair will rule against my colleague from Tennessee. I think the Chair will rule against him with justification. 
   Most importantly, I want colleagues to know the majority of you voted for Aimee's law. I voted against it. But if the Senator from Tennessee should succeed--I know this is not his intention--that is the end of this conference report, that is the end of this legislation on trafficking, that is the end of reauthorization of VAWA, and it would be a tragic, terrible mistake. 
   I hope colleagues will continue to support it. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if I have 20 seconds, with the indulgence of my colleague from Tennessee, I thank Senator BROWNBACK again. I also thank a whole lot of people, a whole lot of human rights organizations, women's organizations, grassroots organizations, religious organizations, who have been there for the bill, organizations of others who have really worked hard for reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. Thank you for your grassroots work. 
   I yield the floor and thank my colleague from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Wyoming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the floor of the Senate to speak about Congressman BRUCE VENTO from Minnesota, the Fourth Congressional District, who passed away today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, BRUCE was elected to the State legislature in 1970 and to the House of Representatives in 1977. Before that, he had been a science teacher on the lower east side of St. Paul. He is a true product of the lower east side. 
   His family is wonderful. Sheila and I have had the chance to spend a lot of time with his family. It is a wonderful, caring, Italian Catholic family. I believe Frank and Annie had eight children; BRUCE was the second oldest. 
   I want to say two or three things if I may. One, I want to say to BRUCE's family and to his wife Sue: Sue, you have been a gift from Heaven for BRUCE and his family. 
   I talked to BRUCE Saturday. He turned 60. Today he passed away. When he passed away, all of his family were with him. All of them said: You can let go. 
   What a beautiful, caring, loving, wonderful family. And what a beautiful, loving, caring man. BRUCE has done so much for so many people. He was so committed to public service. But most important of all, to me, he was a friend whom I will miss. 
   I remember once he was going to come over to our home in St. Paul to talk about a big dispute over the Boundary Water Wilderness Area. We were supposed to meet early in the morning, but there was a huge snowstorm and all the weather reports were that all the schools were closed. People weren't going to be able to go to work. Everything was shut down. It was impossible to get around. We were supposed to meet at 8 o'clock in the morning. At 5 minutes to 8 o'clock, there was a knock on the door. There was BRUCE. He was in seventh heaven. This was like the outdoors, this was snow, this was Minnesota, and he was there. He loved the environment and did so much for our State and our country. 
   I say to BRUCE's family, what a great Congressman. It is easy to say that when someone has passed away, but he truly was. People in Minnesota loved this man. They always will. They will never forget him, will never forget all he has done for our Fourth Congressional District and for our State. Sheila and I will never forget BRUCE. 
   BRUCE is like my friend, Mike Epstein, about whom I spoke. Mike was here for all these years, so committed to public service. Two men, they died too young, from the horrible disease of cancer, two men who were so committed to public service, so committed to people. 
   From this day on, my belief is I have two friends who are looking down from heaven. I will be talking to them every day. I know BRUCE's children and grandchildren will be talking to him every day. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I consider myself very lucky to be on the floor right now. I thank Senator BYRD for his words. I cannot even come close to matching what my colleague from West Virginia said. I have not known Tinker a whole lifetime, but I will say this: What I know about Tinker today and every day, I say to Senator BYRD, is that he is the kind of person who, when we debate, when we come out on the floor to speak, and sometimes we do not necessarily get the votes we want--that happens sometimes; with me, more than sometimes--Tinker is the person who is always there to give encouragement, always there to say: You keep speaking out for what you believe; you keep at it; everything will be all right. 
   I appreciate Tinker's wisdom. I appreciate his help. I appreciate his commitment to service. I appreciate his commitment to West Virginia. Most important of all, I appreciate his patriotism, because to me he is a true patriot. A patriot is someone who takes a part of their life and gives it to their country, and he has done that. So I am honored to be on the floor at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before I leave today, I will finish with some words about another man, a former colleague of the Presiding Officer, Congressman VENTO.  
   I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of Senate Resolution 369 relating to the death of Congressman BRUCE VENTO.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the resolution goes on to read:  
   Resolved, That the Senate has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the announcement of the death of the Honorable Bruce F. Vento, late a Representative from the State of Minnesota. 
   Resolved, That the Secretary communicate these resolutions to the House of Representatives and transmit an enrolled copy thereof to the family of the deceased. 
   Resolved, That when the Senate adjourns or recesses today, it stand adjourned or recessed as a further mark of respect to the memory of the deceased Representative.  
   This is in behalf of the majority leader, Senator LOTT, Senator DASCHLE, myself, and Senator GRAMS. I also add Senators DURBIN and FEINGOLD. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair, and I thank my colleague, Senator BYRD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take 10 minutes in morning business while we are trying to work things out here on the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in the spirit of moving forward, I thank colleagues for the bipartisan work on the Trafficking Victims Protection Act. I especially thank Senator BROWNBACK with whom I have had a chance to work very closely on this bill. There are other key people as well. 
   This conference report, without going into all the details, which will come to the Senate I hope--``pray'' may not be too strong a word--probably Tuesday--it looks as if we are just now working out a time agreement. I thank all Senators for their cooperation. 
   What is important about this legislation is that we have one part of it that deals with trafficking, which I want to talk about in a moment, and the other is the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act which received a huge vote in the House of Representatives. 
   The Violence Against Women Act, VAWA, has made a huge difference. I could talk for hours about the shelters, about the hotline, about the ways in which police take violence against women more seriously, about the ways in which the country takes this more seriously. Still, about every 13 seconds a woman is battered in her home, and still there are somewhere around 3 million to 10 million children who witness this. 
   We have to do even better. I look forward to a couple of efforts next year, one dealing with a program which will electronically link all of the shelters, so with one phone call, one, you will know where to go and can be saved, and, two, it will focus on the children who witness this violence. I feel good about the fact we are going to move forward with this. It certainly appears that way. I thank all Senators who have been willing to cooperate. 
   I also feel good about the trafficking bill on which I have had a chance, as I said, to work with Senator BROWNBACK. 
   So colleagues know, these two pieces of legislation have a lot of integrity in how they interrelate with one another. One deals with violence against women, children, and families. There are a number of women organizations around this country that have worked on this. They made this possible. And the strong voices of Senators--from Senator BIDEN to Senator LEAHY to Senator BOXER and others--have made a huge difference. 
   I started on the trafficking legislation 3 years ago. I do not even know if it is appropriate to brag, but it is not about me. My wife Sheila said this is something we really should do. There has been great help from a lot of Senators. 
   Again, I thank Senator BROWNBACK and also Representatives CHRIS SMITH and SAM GEJDENSON for their help and work, and CONNIE MORELLA is always there on all these issues. I will talk more about staff and the great work by people after this passes. It has not passed yet, but I think we are there. I say to Senator REID, I believe we are there in terms of finally getting a time agreement and we can move this forward. 
   We are talking about the trafficking of some 2 million women, and mainly girls, for the purposes of forced prostitution and forced labor, some 50,000 to our country. This rivals drug trafficking in terms of how scummy it is and how exploitative it is. 
   What happens is these women, girls, in countries that are 
   going through economic chaos and disarray are recruited. They are told they will have an opportunity to be a waitress, an opportunity to come to another country, such as our country, and make an income and be able to build a good life. 
   This happened at a ``massage parlor'' 2 miles from here in Bethesda where these girls were forced into prostitution. What happens is, these young women, young girls, do not know their rights; they do not know what they are getting into. They come to these countries, and then it becomes a nightmare. 
   This legislation focuses on prevention. We have an outreach through AID with some of the nongovernment organizations and others who really do the information work so that young girls, young women, know what might be happening to them, know about trafficking, know what the dangers are, and hopefully will have some knowledge about this before they are exploited. That is the first piece. 
   The second piece is the protection piece. The bitter irony is that all too often one of these young girls, young women, steps forward and says: This is what is happening to me. If they should escape from it, they then are deported. So the victim is the one who ends up being punished. There is a temporary visa extension for 3 years, and then decisions are made after that. 
   There are services for these women and girls. I say ``girls'' because we are talking about children, too, 12, 13 years of age. In Minnesota, we have a very, I think, holy place called the Center for the Treatment of Torture Victims. When women and children go through this hell, there is a whole lot that needs to be done to help them rebuild their lives. We have a provision for those services. 
   The final thing is prosecution. If you are going to be involved in the trafficking of a girl under the age of 16 for purposes of forced prostitution, you can face a life sentence. We should take this seriously. We will be the first country to pass such strong legislation, the first Government in the world. This will be a model for a lot of other governments around the world. 
   This is one of the best human rights pieces of legislation in the Congress in some time. I am not objective because I have had a chance to be a part of it. I am proud of the fact that we are going to do this. I am proud of the fact that it is going to be linked with the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. And I am proud of the fact the Senate next week, I hope early on, right after Yom Kippur, the Jewish holiday, will take decisive action and will pass this most important human rights legislation. I say to all colleagues, please cooperate. Please, let's do this. This will make a difference. It will make a difference. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Senator REID from Nevada is very gracious towards lots of Senators. That is just the way he is. I thank the Senator very much. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say this to the Senator from Iowa--and I wonder whether he would agree with me--I think if we had an up-or-down vote on Bonnie Campbell, it would be 100-0 or 99-1. Under the Violence Against Women Act, in terms of dramatically affecting the lives of women and their children, we would not have been able to have made a real difference without Bonnie Campbell. She is the one who made this a reality---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. When it came to directly affecting their lives. If we had a vote, I think it would be 100-0 or 99-1. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue to fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   October 6, 1999: 
   Hector Colon, 34, Bridgeport, CT; 
   David Cook, 32, Kansas City, MO; 
   Raymond Foster, 32, Philadelphia, PA; 
   Michael Gatheright, 46, Detroit, MI; 
   Andres Geronimo, 15, Houston, TX; 
   Jose Godinez, 19, Chicago, IL; 
   Jerome Green, 40, Boston, MA; 
   Relendo McKarney, 21, Washington, DC; 
   Christopher Reese, 17, Fort Worth, TX; and 
   Ennis Walton, 29, Denver, CO. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, colleagues, I rise to today to offer a resolution calling for thorough investigation into the murder of Father John Kaiser, a Catholic missionary from Minnesota who was brutally murdered in Kenya last month, and requiring the State Department to report to Congress on the progress of the investigation by December 15th, and to make public the final findings of the investigation. 
   For those of you who know little of Father John Kaiser, let me just say this: Father Kaiser was an amazing man. One of those rare individuals who found his calling early in life, he remained dedicated to that calling throughout his life. A catholic of the Order of the Mill Hill Missionaries, Father Kaiser served as a missionary in Kenya for 36 years. Born in Minnesota in 1932 to a German father and Irish mother, from 1954-1957, prior to being ordained, he had served his own country in the U.S. Army training paratroopers in the 82nd Airborne. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to speak about two provisions of great concern to my  state of Minnesota. While this conference report clearly missed the opportunity to make a historic, long term, commitment to our environmental heritage, I rise in support of this legislation because it does represent an important first step in many conservation accounts, and includes vital funding to restore Minnesota's National Forests. 
   First of all, I want to make clear that I am disappointed that the full Conservation and Reinvestment Act, CARA, was not included in this Interior Appropriations bill. CARA, as reported out of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, is landmark legislation that would commit $3 billion annually for 15 years to conservation and natural resource protection. CARA would provide $37.4 million of stable funding annually to the conservation and protection of Minnesota's natural resources. 
   However the compromise in this bill does not reflect the spirit or intent of the full CARA bill. First of all this Conference report does not guarantee multiple year funding for the states, which was the entire premise of CARA. When it comes to protecting our coastlines (on the North Shore in Minnesota) and open spaces (in Northern Minnesota), expanding our urban parks (in the metro Twin Cities area), or investing in wildlife conservation, the annual appropriation approach has proven not to work in the past and is unlikely to work in the future. In addition, the report does not include dedicated funding for wildlife conservation programs, which puts Minnesota's wildlife conservation needs in competition with other state conservation programs, and makes it possible that Minnesota would receive no funds for wildlife preservation from this legislation. While, overall I am encouraged that this legislation more than doubles conservation funding from the $742 million in the current fiscal year to $1.6 billion in FY 2000, we should not loose sight of the fact that this conference report is clearly no substitute for a full funded CARA bill. 
   On a related matter, I am pleased the conference committee has restored the balance of the Forest Service's request for Minnesota's National Forests. During consideration of the Interior Appropriations bill, Senators GORTON and BYRD agreed to my amendment to include $7.2 million in additional emergency funds for Minnesota's National Forests. And today the Senate will take an important step that will restore the balance of emergency funds requested earlier this year by the Superior, Chippewa and Chequamegon National Forests' for blowdown recovery efforts. 
   Furthermore, this legislation includes an important regular, FY 2001 appropriation for the Superior National Forest, that my colleague from Minnesota and I were able to work on together. These monies would be available to the Forest Service next year and are vital to continued recovery efforts in northern Minnesota. 
   These national forests bore the brunt of a massive once-in-a-thousand year wind and rain storm that devastated parts of northern Minnesota on July 4, 1999. The storm damaged over 300,000 acres in seven counties, including as much as 70 percent of the trees in our national forests, and washed out numerous roads. The damage caused by this storm has severely hindered the U.S. Forest Service's ability to responsibly manage the Chippewa and Superior National Forests. 
   The most troubling aspect of this storm for the people of northern Minnesota is the continued extreme risk of a catastrophic fire resulting from the tremendous amount of downed and dead timber. Funding provided to the Forest Service through this legislation will be used for immediate and future recovery efforts, and to reduce the threat of a major wildland fire. 
   The storm has changed affected portions of the forests for years to come and has created new risks and experiences for visitors and residents. Since July 4th, the Superior and Chippewa National Forests officials have been working with state, county, and local officials on storm recovery activities and planning to meet future needs. 
   Immediately after the storm the Forest Service, in conjunction with State, County and local governments began a search and rescue operation that lasted for 15 days from July 4 to July 19, 1999. Fortunately not a single life was lost in the storm, however there were 20 medical evacuations from the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, BWCAW. The most severe case was a broken neck. In addition, the forest Service conducted a search of 2,200 camp sights in the BWCAW to ensure no one was trapped. And finally USFS crews cleared approx. 200 miles of roads, and reconstructed 6 miles of emergency roads. 
   Once the emergency search and rescue was completed, the U.S. Forest Service turned their attention to reducing hazards that could negatively affect visitors, residents and local businesses that depend on the BWCAW and the National Forests. The Forest Service brought in 191 people including an administrative team and several crews from across the country to return facilities to a safe condition so they could be reopened and used during the rest of the year. 
   And now the Superior National Forest is proposing to reduce the risk of fire escaping the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, BWCAW, by using prescribed burning within the wilderness. The 1.1 million-acre BWCAW, located in northeastern Minnesota adjacent to the Canadian border, is one of the most heavily used wildernesses in the United States. 
   The proposal is to reduce the increased risk of wildfire associated with the July 4, 1999, storm. The proposed action is to treat approximately 47,000 to 81,000 acres of the wilderness with prescribed fire over a five to six year time period. 
   The goal of this project is to improve public safety by reducing the potential for high intensity wildland fires to spread from the BWCAW into areas of intermingled ownership, which include homes, cabins, resorts and other improvements, or across the international border into Canada. This will be accomplished in a manner which is sensitive to ecological and wilderness values, and protects fire personnel and BWCAW visitor safety during implementation. 
   While the Forest Service has been engaged in this work for many months, it is clear that much is yet to be done, and that it is going to take many years to dig out from under the storm and to restore the forest to a more normal and healthy state. However this cannot happen without adequate funding. This is a victory for all of Minnesota, and I am grateful to my colleagues for their support. I am very pleased that the Senate approved the remainder of these badly needed funds today, especially for the people of northern Minnesota, who cannot wait. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   October 5, 1999: 
   Norman P. Blasco, 47, Chicago, IL; Guy Colbert, 25, Detroit, MI; Daniel Galloway, 39, San Antonio, TX; Justin Eric Googenrand, 23, St. Paul, MN; Denise Long, 41, Nashville, TN; Shawndell Mosely, 27, Memphis, TN; Donald Roper, 34, Oakland, CA; and Theodore Slater, 87, Toledo, OH. 
   One of the victims of gun violence I mentioned, 41-year-old Denise Long of Nashville, was shot and killed accidentally by a 22-year-old co-worker who pulled out a handgun and dropped it on the floor. Her co-worker did not have a permit to carry a handgun. She also did not have permission to have the gun at their place of work. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent Evan Mathiason and Daniel Lopez, interns in my office, be granted the privilege of the floor today during Senate deliberations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I came to the floor to support my colleague, the Senator from Iowa, and to speak for a couple of minutes about Bonnie Campbell. I believe Bonnie Campbell would be the second woman to serve on the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Dianne Murphy from Minnesota is the first. Bonnie Campbell has done a lot of good work, but most important is her record at the Justice Department in the violence against women office. 
   I come here to speak about this woman's magnificent work. Bonnie Campbell has probably more than any single individual made the most difference when it came to reducing violence and trying to end some of the violence in families; unfortunately, most of it directed against women and children. About every 13 seconds, a woman is battered in our country. A home should be a safe place. Somewhere between 3 million and 10 million witness this in their homes.  
   Bonnie Campbell has visited Minnesota. I have seen her speak with very quiet eloquence. I cannot say enough about the magnificent work she has done. As attorney general in Iowa, I think she passed the first anti-stalking law in the State. She is well known in Iowa. She is well known throughout the United States of America. She is a skillful lawyer. She would be a great judge. She is extremely important when it comes to being a voice for families in this country. She has done probably some of the best work that any individual could possibly do in this incredibly important area of reducing violence in this country. There is way too much violence--especially directed at women and children. 
   I cannot for the life of me understand why we have been waiting almost 7 months or thereabouts for this nomination to move through the Senate. 
   Minnesota is covered by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Dianne Murphy is from the State of Minnesota. She was the first woman to serve on this court. She is a great judge. 
   Bonnie Campbell would be a great judge. We need her on this court. We need a judge who understands the concerns and circumstances of too many women's lives and too many children's lives in this country. We need a judge such as Bonnie Campbell who has such a distinguished background and such a distinguished career. We need a judge on the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals like Bonnie Campbell with such a proven record of public service. 
   I can't find anything in her background, I can't find anything in her record, I can't find anything about her which would make her anything other than 100 percent eminently qualified to serve on this court of appeals. 
   I share in the indignation that my colleague from Iowa has expressed. There is no excuse to hold this nomination for one day longer. I think it is shameful that, in the Senate, really good people who have so much to offer, who could do such good--in this particular case, at the Eighth Circuit of Appeals--find themselves blocked for no good reason. 
   I heard Senator HARKIN say he thought this was going to come back to ``bite.'' I hope it does. It is true; most of the people in the country are not so directly connected to this process of how we do confirmations of judicial appointments. We have had Senator LEAHY doing yeoman work, and there are other Senators who have spoken. Senator LEAHY provides the leadership. The more people learn about a person of the caliber of Bonnie Campbell--and as a man, I care a lot about how we can reduce this violence in families, how we can reduce the violence in homes--the more people hear about this, the more outraged they will be, and for good reason. 
   I know it is asking too much, but I want to see a little bit more fairness. I want to see an end to this blocking of good people who could do good work and could help so much. Bonnie Campbell is a perfect example. We shouldn't be delaying this nomination one day. But we are. I just want to express my support for Bonnie Campbell. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, S. 2045 and the Lott amendment would raise the H-1B visa cap for highly skilled workers, and there seems to be considerable support on both sides of the aisle for raising this cap. 
   Much has been said about the shortage of skilled workers for the information technology industry. In my State of Minnesota, the Minnesota Department of Economic Security has said that over the next decade, the industry will need about 8,800 more skilled workers, but at the same time they see only about 1,000 workers a year being trained for such jobs. I am sympathetic to what the business community is saying in Minnesota and around the country. But I think there is a right way and a wrong way to raise the H-1B visa cap. I rise to speak about what I think would be the right way. 
   The only way we can do it the right way is if we are able to bring amendments to the floor to improve this bill. That is how you are a good Senator representing people in your State. 
   One amendment would call for more resources for high-skilled training for workers in our country, for men and women who want nothing more than to be able to obtain a living wage job, earn a decent standard of living, take care of their families. We ought to make sure that there is a significant investment of resources for such skill development and job training. The Kennedy amendment would have done that. We are not able to do that because we are shut out from amendments. 
   If we are going to raise the H-1B visa cap, we ought to make sure that those workers with more advanced skills that Americans could not obtain the training for right away--that is to say, workers who have a PhD or a master's degree--would be the ones who, first of all, would be coming to our country from other countries. 
   That way, you make sure working people in our country who can easily be trained for these jobs are not shut out. My understanding is that Senator KENNEDY will be offering a carve-out amendment after the cloture vote. 
   Then there is rural America. The Center for Rural Affairs, located in Nebraska, came out with a study that one-third of households in rural counties in a six-State region, including Minnesota, have annual incomes of less than $15,000 a year. Information technology companies say we need skilled workers. People in rural America have a great work ethic. Farmers and other rural citizens tell me: PAUL, we would like nothing more than to have the opportunity to receive the training for these jobs and then we could telework, do it from our homes and farms, or from a satellite office. We can make a decent wage. Why don't we put some focus on that? 
   I have an amendment, the telework amendment, and I have worked on this for the better part of a year. Whether it is Native Americans, first Americans, who want the opportunity for skills development or whether it be rural people, I wanted to bring an amendment to the floor that would have provided funding for this telework. I think this amendment would have made all the sense in the world. 
   Rural workers need jobs. High-tech employers need workers. This amendment would have found a solution to these common challenges. It would authorize competitive grants to qualified organizations for 5-year projects to connect and broker employment in the private sector through telework to a population of rural workers, setting up centers of distance learning around the country in rural America, where we can make the connection between rural citizens who so desire the opportunity to have the skills and find the employment and the information technology companies that need these skilled workers. 
   It seems to me that if we are going to have such a piece of legislation on the floor--we would be respectful, of course, of skilled immigrants coming to our country to do the work. I am all for that. But at the same time, we would also make sure citizens within our own country who desire the opportunity to receive the skills and job training to obtain these jobs are given such an opportunity. 
   Cloture on the underlying bill would also doom another amendment that I think is necessary to improve this legislation. We cannot escape the irony that we are proceeding to pass a bill that would bring more foreign nationals into this country to work in high-tech companies, while we have done nothing to help literally thousands of immigrants who have been living in this country for years and paying taxes and often raising their children as American citizens. If we are going to bring more foreign workers into this country, it is only fair and just to take into account people who are already here, already contributing to our economy, and who already have families who have only known America as their home. It is hypocrisy, in my view, to do one without the other. 
   There are thousands of taxpaying immigrants who have been waiting years for an adjustment of status to permanent residency. Many of them have done everything they are required to do to stay in this country. But through a bureaucratic mixup, a change in laws, or another reason, largely beyond their control, they have become ``out of status.'' It is for these people that we must--I use the word ``must''--pass the Latino 
   and Immigrant Fairness Act. Instead, we have moved to pass the H-1B bill and we ignore them. We ignore them, while we open our doors to more high-tech workers. With so many of our neighbors, our coworkers, our fathers, our mothers, and friends facing possible deportation to countries that have not been their home, I do not know how we can stand here and  argue that increasing the H-1B cap to admit new foreign nationals should pass without bringing fairness and relief to those who are already here. I include a thousand wonderful people in the Liberian community in my own State of Minnesota. 
   I don't know how a nation that believes in fairness could say that if you fled Castro, you can stay, but if you fled the death squads in El Salvador, you must go. I don't know how a nation that calls for more family values and responsible fatherhood would deport the father of American children such as JoJo Mendoza of Minnesota, who has worked for years building our economy, our community, and our Nation. Mr. Mendoza was deported 2 weeks ago from Minnesota. He left his children, who are Americans. 
   I would be prepared to vote for raising the H-1B visa cap if it were done in the right way. I do not think the LOTT amendment is the right way. I hope we can reach an agreement to do it in the right way--by permitting amendments that would make this bill one I could support. 
   Finally, I say one more time--and I feel as if I have said it so many times that perhaps I have deafened all the gods--we cannot be good Senators, whether we are Democrats or Republicans, when we no longer have a process that allows unlimited debate and allows any Senator to come to the floor with amendments that he or she believes will lead to an improvement in the quality of life of the people we represent. I have said to the majority leader a million times--he is not on the floor now, but I don't feel badly saying it because I have said it so many times when he has been on the floor of the Senate--I believe the way in which we have proceeded, the way in which the majority party doesn't want to debate amendments and doesn't want to vote on controversial questions, robs the Senate of its vitality. It makes it hard for any of us to be good Senators. 
   Here I am giving a speech. I like speaking on the floor of the Senate. I am honored to speak on the floor of the Senate. I get goose bumps every time I come to the Chamber. I love this Chamber, but I would rather be on the floor doing what I consider to be the work of a Senator, which is with an amendment that would set up centers for distance learning, that would focus on telework, that would be so important to so many rural Americans, including so many citizens in Minnesota, that would connect the need of the information technology industry for more skilled workers with a strong desire of rural people to be able to have the training, I say to my colleague from Idaho, and then telework from a satellite office from their home, a good job with a decent wage, with decent health care benefits. 
   I can't introduce that amendment to this bill with the way the majority leader has proceeded. I can't improve this bill. I can't represent the people in greater Minnesota and rural Minnesota, many of whom are really hurting given the farm economy. For that reason, I certainly will vote for the motion to move forward on the immigrant fairness legislation, but I won't vote for this H-1B legislation as brought to the floor by the majority leader. I will not vote for cloture. 
   I am going to insist over and over again, as is my right as a Senator, to come to this floor and introduce and debate amendments that I think will make our country better. My solution could be another Senator's horror. I understand that. But the beauty and the greatness of the Senate, when we are at our best, is not this process, but it is the process of amending and debating, disposing of amendments, voting yes or no, and having more amendments to deal with, and then work to pass the legislation. I think we are making a terrible mistake in proceeding the way we have. I do not think it is for the good of the Senate as an institution, and I don't think it is for the good of Minnesota or the country. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I wanted to ask the Senator--I know Illinois is an agricultural State, as is mine. Many of our rural citizens, for example, desperately want what I think most people in the country want, which is to be able to earn a decent living and be able to support their families. At the same time we have our information technology companies telling us--I hear this all the time; I am sure the Senator from Illinois hears this--listen, we need skilled workers; we don't have enough skilled workers; and we pay good wages with good fringe benefits. Is the Senator aware we have people in rural America who are saying: Give us the opportunity to develop these skills? Give us the opportunity to be trained. Give us the opportunity to telework. With this new technology, we can actually stay in our rural communities. We don't have to leave. 
   Is the Senator aware there are so many men and women, for example, in rural America--just to talk about rural America--who are ready to really do this work, take advantage of and be a part of this new economy, but they don't have the opportunity to develop the skills and to have the training? Is that what the Senator is speaking to? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I ask the Senator one other question? I am in complete agreement with what the Senator is saying. I had hoped to introduce an amendment to the H-1B bill that dealt with the whole issue of telework. I think we could have gotten a huge vote for it because this is so important to what we call greater Minnesota. 
   I wish to pick up on something the Senator said earlier. He talked about his own background. The last thing I am going to do is to go against immigrants and all they have done for our country. I am the son of an immigrant. I have a similar background to that of my colleague, but I wanted to give one poignant example. I think we both tend to draw some energy just from people we meet. 
   On Sunday, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission--and I give Chairman Kennard all the credit in the world--came out to Minnesota to do a 3-day work session with Native Americans. When we talk about Native Americans, we are talking about first Americans, correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Do you know what they are saying? They are 
   saying: In our reservations, we have 50-percent-plus poverty. In fact, they are saying it is not only the Internet; they still don't have phone service for many. What they are saying is they want to be part of this new economy. They want the opportunity for the training, the infrastructure, the technology infrastructure. 
   Yet another example: I am all for guest workers and immigrants coming in. But at the same time we have first Americans, Native Americans--I see my colleague from Maryland is here. We talk about the digital divide--who are way on the other side of the digital divide. There is another example which I think we have to speak to in legislation at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak for up to 10 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would like to also speak now about the H-1B bill on the floor. 
   I ask unanimous consent that I have 10 minutes to speak on that legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. I will not speak a long time. But I want to raise a couple of issues that other colleagues have spoken to as well. 
   I come from a State with a very sophisticated high-tech industry. I come from a State that has an explosion of information technology companies. I come from a State that has a great medical device industry. I come from a State that is leading the way. 
   I am very sympathetic to the call on the part of business communities to be able to get more help from skilled labor, including skilled workers from other countries. I am more than sympathetic to what the business community is saying. I certainly believe that immigrants--men and women from other countries who help businesses and work, who stay in our country--make our country a richer and better country. 
   I am the son of a Jewish immigrant who was born in Ukraine and who fled persecution from Russia. But I also believe that it is a crying shame that we do not have the opportunity--again, this is the greatness of the Senate--to be able to introduce some amendments: an amendment that would focus on education and job training and skill development for Americans who could take some of these jobs; an amendment that deals with telework that is so important to rural America, and so important 
   to rural Minnesota. 
   I hope there is some way I can get this amendment and this piece of legislation passed, which basically would employ people in rural communities, such as some of the farmers who lost their farms, who have a great work ethic, who want to work, and who want to have a chance to develop their skills for the technology companies that say they need skilled workers. They can telework. They can do it from home or satellite offices. It is a marriage made in heaven. I am hoping to somehow still pass that legislation. I hope it will be an amendment on this bill because, again, it would enable these Americans to have a chance. 
   My colleague from New Mexico is one of the strongest advocates for Native Americans. This was such an interesting meeting this past Sunday in Minnesota. I give FCC Chairman Kennard a lot of credit for holding a 3-day workshop for people in Indian country who not only don't have access to the Internet but who still don't have phones. They were talking about guest workers and others coming to our country. These were the first Americans. They were saying: we want to be a part of this new economy; we want to have a chance to learn the skills. We want to be wired. We want to have the infrastructure. 
   I hope there can be an amendment that speaks to the concerns and circumstances of people in Indian country. 
   Finally, I think the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act is important for not only the Latino community but also for the Liberian community. I am worried about the thousands of Liberians in Minnesota who at the end of the month maybe will have to leave this country if we don't have some kind of change. This legislation calls for permanent residency status for them. But I am terribly worried they are going to be forced to go back. It would be very dangerous for them and their families. I certainly think there is a powerful, moral, and ethical plan for the Latino and Latina community  in this legislation. We had hoped that would be an amendment. Again, it doesn't look as if we are going to have an opportunity to present this amendment. I don't think that is the Senate at its best. 
   I will vote for cloture on a bill that I actually think is a good piece of legislation but not without the opportunity for us to consider some of these amendments. They could have time limits where we could try to improve this bill. We can make sure this is good for the business community and good for the people in our country who want to have a chance to be a part of this new economy, as well as bringing in skilled workers from other countries. I think we could do all of it. It could be a win-win-win. 
   The Senate is at its best when we can bring these amendments to the floor and therefore have an opportunity to represent people in our States and be legislators. But when we are shut down and closed out, then I think Senators have every right to say we can't support this. That is certainly going to be my position. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is the issue of violence in homes. About every 13 seconds a woman is battered. A home should be a safe place. This is about anywhere from 5 to 10 million children witnessing this violence--not on TV, not in the movies, but in their living rooms, and the effect it has on these children. 
   Today, I introduce a bill I would like to be able to have on the floor of the Senate for a vote. If I don't get it done over the next week or two, I am positive that there will be broad, bipartisan support for this legislation. This is called the National Domestic Violence Hotline Enhancement Act. I will send the bill to the desk on behalf of myself, Senators JOHNSON, BAYH, and KENNEDY. On the House side, Representative CONNIE MORELLA, who has done such great work in this area, is introducing the same piece of legislation today. I send this bill to the desk. 
   Darlene Lussier, from Red Lake Band, a Chippewa Indian reservation in Minnesota, called this bill the ``talking circle for all shelters.'' I would like to name it the ``Talking Circle For All Shelters.'' 
   This is modeled after the Day One project in Minnesota. This legislation creates a web site that would allow the National Domestic Violence Hotline operators at shelters all around the country--and there are 2,000 shelters; this is a map of all the shelters in the United States of America. It would enable, through this web site, shelters one telephone call from a woman in need of help to the hotline, or to any shelter, because we would have everybody hooked up electronically under  very safe and secure conditions. It would simply take one call for a woman to be able to know where she and her children could go to get away from this violence, where they could go to make sure that she would not lose her life, or that things would not get more violent at home. 
   This is extremely important because what happens quite often is a woman will finally get the courage and she knows she must leave. She knows it is a dangerous, desperate situation. But when she calls a shelter, they may be completely filled up and not have anywhere for her to go and then she doesn't know where to go. Then she is forced to stay in that dangerous home. Then she is battered again and her children witness this, and quite often the children are battered as well. Remember, every 13 seconds a woman is battered in her home. A home should be a safe place. 
   This piece of legislation is critically important. Right now, according to the National Network to End Domestic Violence, only 43 percent of the shelters in the United States have Internet access. We have to do better. In my State of Minnesota, last year 28 women were murdered. This was ``domestic violence.'' This year--and the year is barely half over--already 33 women in Minnesota have been murdered because of domestic violence. Three women were murdered within 8 days in northern Minnesota earlier this month. A woman, again, is battered every 13 seconds, and 3 million to 5 million to 10 million children witness this. Over 70 percent of these children themselves are abused. 
   I don't want to hear one more story about a woman being 
   murdered by her husband or boyfriend. I don't want to hear one more story about a woman being beaten, or her child fighting in school because he saw the violence in his home. We have to end this. I don't want to hear one more statistic about a quarter of homeless people on any given night are victims of domestic violence--women and children with nowhere to go. This ``Talking Circle For All Shelters'' would enable a woman to get on this national hotline, or call the shelter, and everybody would be linked up through a web site electrically, and she would be able to know right away where she could go to be safe, so that her children would be safe. 
   This is modeled after Minnesota's Day One web site. This links every shelter in Minnesota. Day One reports that 99 percent of women and children who call, because of this system, are assured services and shelter that meets their unique needs. I want to take this Minnesota model--this Day One web site model--and make sure this becomes available for all women and all children throughout the United States of America. 
   David Strand, who is chief operating officer of Allina Health System in Minnesota, and who has led the way, along with United Way, in providing the funding for this, talks about how important this is for healing and how important it is to return to healthy communities. 
   Day One is all about healing. Day One is all about giving women who have been battered and abused and their children a chance to heal. Day One in Minnesota--and I want it to be Day One in the United States of America--is about making sure when she needs to make the call, she can do it and find out where she and her children can go. This is the ``Talking Circle For All Shelters'' in America. 
   Over the past 5 years, the National Domestic Violence Hotline has received over 500,000 calls from women and children in danger from abuse. If we can take this Day One model in Minnesota, the web site that we have, and we can now make this a national program, we can make sure that these women and these children will get the help they need. We can make sure these women, when they make the call, will know where they can go, as opposed to making a call, and the shelter they call doesn't have any room and they don't know where to go, and then they stay and are battered again and, for all I know, they are murdered. 
   We can take this new technology and link up all of these shelters electronically. We can make this a part of the national domestic violence hotline, and we can make a real difference. 
   I want to introduce this today. I am absolutely sure we can pass this legislation. I know we can do this. I know it is the right thing to do. I know there will be strong support from Democrats and Republicans as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the passage of the Children's Health Act of 2000, an extraordinary bipartisan bill that includes so many outstanding provisions to improve the health and mental health of the children of our country. The bill includes the reauthorization of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, a long-overdue reauthorization and revitalization of an agency that provides most of the public funding of mental health and addiction services to our communities. SAMHSA has many dedicated staff who have worked so hard to develop and manage remarkable programs over the last several years. I am proud to have played a role in the development of this comprehensive bill, and to join my colleagues in encouraging its quick passage into law. 
   The Children's Health Act of 2000 takes a major step forward in supporting research, services, treatment, and professional training to begin to address some of the most significant health problems affecting children of all ages. This legislation clearly states that children's health, including their mental health and addiction treatment needs, must be a priority for our country. It is not enough to deal with our children's health needs only after they have become crises. Many of the programs outlined in this bill recognize this problem by focusing on prevention and education programs, and by supporting programs to train researchers and health care providers who specialize in children's health. 
   Many of the health areas included in this comprehensive bill were identified by the Department of Health and Human Services as among the top 10 leading health indicators for children in its major public health initiative ``Healthy People 2010,'' launched in January 2000. Several were of particular importance to me as I worked on this bill, especially programs supporting treatment of mental illness and addiction; increased access to health care, especially for our mentally ill youth in correctional facilities; and overall improvements in fitness and oral health for all our children, including low-income children and children living in rural areas. 
   Dr. David Satcher, the United States Surgeon General, has released several groundbreaking reports in recent years which highlight the scope and the specific health needs of our children. These reports included ``Mental Health: A Report of the Surgeon General''; ``The Surgeon General's Call to Action to Prevent Suicide''; and the first ever ``Oral Health In America: A Report of the Surgeon General,'' which each begins to address these severe health crises in these areas for so many of our children. The problems identified by Dr. Satcher touch on both the national problems across our country, and also highlight the significant health care disparities for different groups. I am pleased to have contributed to many new legislative and funding efforts to support improvements in these areas of health care. 
   In the Surgeon General's 2000 report on oral health, the strong link between oral health and overall health was highlighted, and this bill helps to address the problems identified in the report. Dr. Satcher emphasized the devastating consequences of untreated oral disease and how it can affect children's health and well-being, leading to serious pain and suffering, time lost from school, loss of permanent teeth, damage to self-esteem, and co-existing medical conditions. So much of what we need to do is already known. We need to identify the unmet need and improve access to care for those who need it most. This bill includes funding for school-based and other innovative oral health care programs to improve the overall health of our children. The oral health programs included in this bill are an important step forward. 
   Healthy People 2010 goals also identified obesity as a major problem for children, particularly because of the decline in physical activity among our children. One-fourth of our children aged 6-17 are overweight, and the percentage of children who are seriously overweight has doubled in the last thirty years. This is not a minor issue for the health of our children: obesity as a chronic illness is related to other serious chronic conditions in children, including type II diabetes, hypertension, and asthma. Research has also shown that 60% of overweight children 5-10 years old already have at least one risk factor for heart disease. Adult obesity is associated with many of the leading causes of death and disability, including heart disease, diabetes, arthritis, and cancer. The public health efforts in this bill that focus on this serious national problem, including improvements in physical education funding, public health education, and nutrition education, are ones I enthusiastically support. In the future we must do even more to again make physical education a high priority for our country and establish a national foundation to promote physical activity for all ages. 
   I am particularly proud of the section of this bill that supports local suicide prevention programs focusing on our young people. Youth suicide must be recognized for the national crisis that it is. In my own state of Minnesota, suicide is the second leading cause of death among our youth, as it is in half of the states in our country. Overall, in the United States, it is the third leading cause of death among our children, taking more lives than homicide. We know from the outstanding research supported by the National Institute of Mental Health that 90% of all completed suicides are linked to untreated or inadequately treated mental illness or addiction. More than 500,000 Americans attempt to take their own lives every year. In this bill, $75 million will be authorized to support local prevention programs focusing on our children who are at risk of taking their own lives. More than 50 groups supported our efforts to improve funding for suicide prevention programs this year, including local programs, like the Minnesota group, Suicide Awareness/Voices of Education (SA/VE), as well as national groups, such as Suicide Prevention and Advocation Network (SPAN), the National Hope Line Network, and the National Mental Health Association. 
   We can no longer afford to turn our eyes away from the horrible reality that many of our citizens, even our children, may want to die. We continue to treat mental illness and severe drug addiction as somehow less important than other illnesses. We blame the sick for their disease, and the result can be death and tragedy. Today, we begin to acknowledge that this kind of discrimination is against many of our own children. 
   I am also pleased to have worked to include an additional $4 million to support resource centers for those who work with our mentally ill youth in correctional facilities. Our children need help in many areas: education, child care, juvenile justice, and health care. Many are experiencing severe drug addiction, mental illness, and lack of access to health care coverage. The Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) has recognized that the number one priority for the nation's National Drug Control Strategy is to educate and enable America's youth to reject illegal drugs as well as alcohol and tobacco. And yet 80 percent of adolescents needing treatment are unable to access services because of the severe lack of coverage for addiction treatment or the unavailability of treatment programs or trained health care providers in their community. Many of these children end up in the juvenile justice system as a result. 
   The reauthorization of SAMHSA within this bill, with its state block grant funding for mental health and addiction treatment, is a good beginning. But so much more must be done to stop treating our children as second class citizens, and to stop treating mental illness and addiction as second class illnesses. We must continue to fight for fairness and parity in health care coverage for our children, indeed for all of our citizens, who suffer from mental illness and addiction. It is their future, and ours, as a country, that is at stake. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will not object, but with the indulgence of my colleagues, I ask unanimous consent to then be allowed to speak for 15 minutes of the Democrats' time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. I thank the Senator from Louisiana for her excellent work. I just had three members of the department of natural resources of Minnesota in my office today encouraging me to support this measure. It is very important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wish to announce on the floor of the Senator that 34 colleagues--Democrats and Republicans alike--join me in a letter to the White House today. 
   We are talking about what is going on with oil prices and what is going on with home heating costs. The projections are very frightening. 
   We see home heating oil costs up 30 percent and natural gas costs up 40 percent. For many of us in cold-weather States, this is a crisis issue. Specifically, we are talking about the Low-Income Energy Assistance Program. 
   My colleague, Senator HARKIN, has been a leader in this fight for a long, long time. 
   The point is that the President has about $500 million right now in LIHEAP emergency funding that we could get back to the cold-weather States. LIHEAP is a terribly important addition to the negotiations on the appropriations bill this year. Also, for funding next year, we are saying add an additional $500 million. Otherwise, I think probably maybe 15 percent of the people who are eligible for LIHEAP funding will not get any. 
   In the State of Minnesota, you are talking about, roughly speaking, 90,000 households. About a third of them are elderly. This is a lifeline program. It is not a lot--maybe $350 a year. But it helps people with their heating costs. 
   What is going on now means that the heating costs are going to go way up. If we don't add some funding to this program, we are going to have people who are cold, or they will not buy prescription drugs, or they will not have food on the table. This is a huge issue. 
   I urge the President and the White House in negotiations to be strong on funding for LIHEAP. We need the additional $500 million now and an additional $500 million next year. We have to make sure this important lifeline program is funded. 
   I visited a lot of people in their homes. Many of them are elderly people. This makes a huge difference to them. I am really worried about what is going to happen. 
   By the way, for the information of colleagues, it is interesting to me that we have focused on OPEC countries. An interesting story came out in the past couple of days that the non-OPEC oil countries, that collectively produce more than half the world's crude oil, rather than producing more to meet the additional demands, are producing less. 
   Exxon-Mobil--we have these mergers, acquisitions. We have monopolies and a cartel. I think they are in a position to fix prices. If there ever was a case to be made for antitrust action, this is a pretty decisive area in the economy where we ought to be looking at these conglomerates and holding them accountable for putting more competition into this industry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, Senator MOYNIHAN, Senator DASCHLE, and others have introduced a bill of which I am a cosponsor. It is really important. I didn't support the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. I thought it was a mistake. I didn't understand how this projected $116 billion in Medicare cuts was actually going to work on the ground with our hospitals, HMOs, and nursing homes--you name it. The projected cost is actually $200 million less by way of funding. 
   Last year, we did a ``fix.'' We restored approximately an additional $16 billion or $17 billion. It did not solve the problem. We now have a bill and a request of $8 billion over the next 10 years. This is critically important. In Minnesota, in 1999, 54 of our 139 hospitals operated with less than a 2-percent margin, and 27 percent of them are in the red. 
   Whether it is an inner-city hospital, such as Hennepin County General, or rural hospitals, I tell Senators--Democrats and Republicans alike--that we made a huge mistake. We should have never voted for these draconian cuts in Medicare reimbursements. I don't know what is in the world we were thinking. I didn't vote for it. But I say ``we'' because I am a Member of the Senate, and proud to be a Member of the Senate. 
   But we have to restore a significant amount of this funding because both in the inner city and in the rural areas where there is a disproportionate number of elderly and low-income people, these providers are not making it. Rural hospitals will shut down. This is not just a crisis for rural communities. Employers lack health care for people. And Hennepin County General, which is, I think, a sacred place, is such an important hospital. They are struggling because of what we did in 1997. 
   This piece of legislation we have introduced will call for $80 billion to be restored for this funding. It is critically important if we care about the care for the elderly, low-income, rural, and inner-city communities. 
   I hope Democrats and Republicans alike in this final week of negotiations will come together and support not only our providers but also support the people in our State who really count on this care. 
   As long as we are talking about the last couple of weeks, I want to ask Senator HARKIN to share with me his reaction. 
   We had a vote yesterday. We had two appropriations bills, Postal-Treasury and legislative branch appropriations, which were merged together. Legislative branch got through and Postal-Treasury never came to the floor of the Senate. It was put into the conference report. Part of the idea was that you could have a salary increase, which may be fine, but of course we don't raise the minimum wage for people. The idea would be then we would have an opportunity to have up-or-down amendments and a vote on the minimum wage. If we can raise the salaries above $140,000, we ought to be able to vote for the minimum wage for the working poor people of the country. Senators voted against that bill. 
   Now I hear that the majority leader is talking about a lame duck session. Am I correct? I ask my colleague from Iowa. I would like to go back and forth in some discussion with my colleague from Iowa about this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I hope other Senators will come to the floor and speak on this question, including members of the majority party, the majority leader included. 
   The way I look at it, you cannot help but smile with a twinkle in your eye. We have had plenty of time to do the work of the people, and now to say we can't get this done. Part of the proposal is that maybe a few appropriators would stay here with the White House and the rest of us would go home and campaign. I have heard that being discussed, which means we are not here doing the work. Then the other part of it is the lame duck session. 
   I think this is a breakdown of representative democracy. Basically, I think the majority party is trying to have it a couple of different ways. On the one hand, as a special favor to the insurance industry, they block sensible patient protection legislation. As a special favor to some of the bottom dwellers of commerce, they block raising the minimum wage from $5.15 to $6.15 over 2 years. And as a special favor to the pharmaceutical industry, they don't want to extend prescription drug benefits as a part of the Medicare program for elderly people. And as a special favor to some of the big packers and conglomerates, they pass Freedom to Farm, which we call the ``freedom to fail'' bill. But at the same time, they don't want to be held accountable for any of this. They don't want to have amendments on the floor. They don't want to have any votes. They don't want any accountability. 
   What they would like to do--I think the actual meaning of this proposal, which we are going to raise some Cain about because we are here to work, about coming back for a lame duck session is 
   that our Republican colleagues want to vote on prescription drug costs after the election. They want to vote on patient protection after the election. They want to vote on minimum wage after the election. They want to vote on whether we should have more teachers in schools and smaller class size, and something you have been working on, some funding for rebuilding crumbling schools, after the election. 
   I don't think people in the country are going to go for that. I say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, that is not the way representative democracy works. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I may interrupt my colleague, the Senator is absolutely right. This is just an extension of what has been going on. The Senate is an institution where we should have the debate, the deliberation. That is what this is about. By filing cloture on bills, by not allowing debate, by putting unrelated provisions into a conference report, the majority party has decided they will not allow debate. The logical extension of this is, let's get out of town; let's not be held accountable. 
   Regarding veterans, the veterans organizations, many of them put together what they call an independent budget. Senator JOHNSON of South Dakota and I have had amendments where we get a 99-0 vote that we definitely want to add an additional $500 million because we know veterans have fallen between the cracks. Every time, in some conference committee or now in some omnibus appropriations bill, they never actually vote to put the appropriations into veterans' health care. 
   I think the Senator is right. Whether it is veterans, farmers, people in the country caring about education--this is all the people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Absolutely. And prescription drugs. 
   So am I correct that the lame duck proposal basically adds up to this: What some Republicans seem to be suggesting is, let's get out of here; let's not have to vote on any of this; let's come back after the election and then we will vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Don't say that. We are speaking. Don't say that. We are speaking. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I'm kidding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I can say to my colleague, some of what I said--everything I said I meant, and it is meant to challenge the majority party and the majority leader. But in a very serious way--the Senator mentioned education; it really breaks your heart, too, if you want to try to the best of your ability to represent people--on the Elementary and Secondary Act, between myself and staff, we were in 100 schools just meeting with people, getting their ideas about how we could best help them. We took all their ideas. Then we worked on amendments. I was so excited to come on the floor and have amendments representing what people said. The whole idea was to try to do good for people. 
   You cannot represent the people in your State; you cannot do good for people; you cannot be a good Senator unless the Senate becomes the Senate again. I think it is just outrageous that  the majority party just does not want to have the discussion, does not want to have the debate, does not want to vote--apparently doesn't want to vote. I just think that is not the way the Senate should operate, and it makes it very difficult to do good for people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Iowa, that may very well be what we do. I hope this suggestion of a possible lame duck session is an idea that will last about 1 hour and that will be the end of it. And I hope our discussion on the floor will be part of putting an end to it. But I am pleased to join with my colleague. I am pleased to start asking unanimous consent to bring up this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. I think we will be back on the floor and we may very well be trying our level best to put these issues back on the floor. I will be proud to do it with my colleague from Iowa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for just a second? I just want to make sure, I just want to ask the Senator, Bonnie Campbell has directed all of the work against violence against women; is that correct? My wife Sheila works closely with her. She has done phenomenal work, has just a great reputation; am I correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to echo the words of my colleague from Minnesota and thank my colleagues, the Chairman and ranking members of the Environment and Public Works Committee for their attention to the needs of the residents of Breckenridge, Minnesota and this much needed flood control project. We have come a long way since the floods of 1997, when I visited the community to witness first hand the devastation. Since then the city of Breckenridge has been working closely with the Army Corps of Engineers and the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources to design a comprehensive flood control plan to protect the community from future losses. I am pleased that the Senate WRDA bill will include authorization for this much needed flood control project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I introduce today on behalf of myself and Senators LIEBERMAN, KENNEDY, REID, MOYNIHAN, LEVIN, and LANDRIEU, a resolution to designate January 1, 2001, and every following January 1st, as a day of peace and reconciliation among all peoples of the world. The purpose of this resolution is to create a day of peaceful celebration across the world and in our backyards, as well as a day for sharing food with others whose lives we normally do not touch in a personal way. 
   ``One Day in Peace,'' a pledge of no violence in our homes, neighborhoods, and battlefields, on January 1, 2000, was supported by over 100 nations, 25 U.S. governors, hundreds of mayors worldwide and over 1,000 organizations in nearly 140 countries, as well as the UN General Assembly. It worked and the new millennium was ushered in with a day of peace worldwide. 
   At the same time, another event, The Millennium Meal Project, an international effort to use the tradition of breaking bread to promote peace and end hunger, was officially endorsed by the White House, members of both the House and Senate, the World Peace/Inner Peace Conference and the Jubillenium World Conference on Religion and Peace featuring 19 diverse faiths and went exceedingly well this past January 1, 2000. 
   Now these two initiatives have joined together in order to encourage people all over the world, through sharing of a special meal, to reach out to one another for ``One Day'' by creating an environment of peace and mutualism. Since the beginning of recorded history, breaking bread together has been seen as a tradition when people from opposing sides can sit down and learn about one another in a peaceful manner. 
   Particularly we as Senators need to put aside our differences, on both sides of the aisle, to discover and celebrate our commonalities in order to prepare ourselves for working more harmoniously during the 107th Congress to solve the critical problems of both violence and hunger in our nation and in our world. We know, all too well, that children around the world and at home are going to bed hungry, and that our children are often afraid to go to school. 
   Let us make ``One Day'' a special time of reflection, to eliminate hunger and violence for children and families throughout the world, by sharing our prosperity and friendship with people from all backgrounds, beliefs and cultures. This day should be held high in importance to celebrate our diversities and differences, rather than emphasizing them as barriers between us. 
   I hope this resolution will be adopted unanimously. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the privilege of the floor be granted to Janko Mitric, an intern, for today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the 25th anniversary of the establishment of African American Family Services. 
   This inspirational organization has spent the past 25 years providing culturally specific services to the Minnesota African American community. Since 1975, it has expanded its services from solely dealing with chemical dependency to providing critical services in chemical health, family preservation, domestic violence, and adolescent violence prevention and anger management. 
   In addition to these programs, African American Family Services provides its clients with two other invaluable services--a resource center, which includes a resource library and a cross-peer education mentoring project, and a technical assistance center, which creates training programs to educate human and social service professionals on enhancing service delivery to African American clients. 
   Twenty-five years after its founding, this organization is still searching for new and innovative ways to serve Minnesotans. Currently, African American Family Services is attempting to work more directly with the children of its clients, hoping that this will help to break the cycle of self-destructive behavior that many families experience. 
   As the leading provider of human services to the Minnesota African American community, this organization has served countless individuals and families. By providing an effective network of dedicated staff and volunteers who have worked hard to serve every person who walks through its doors, African American Family Services truly has been able to make a difference in the lives of its clients. 
   I am grateful to have had the opportunity to work with this wonderful organization, and am proud to commend its outstanding record of success and service to the community on the floor of the United States Senate. Please join me in honoring all of the people who have made the success of the African American Family Services possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will my colleague yield for a moment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that in the proper order of speakers, after Senator LAUTENBERG and Senator HOLLINGS and a Republican Senator are recognized to speak, I then be recognized to speak for 10 minutes of my leader's time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague--I have 10 minutes reserved--if my colleague from Illinois needs to speak---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, Senator HOLLINGS from South Carolina, for his remarks. Let me say to my colleague from South Carolina, I can't imagine the Senate without Senator HOLLINGS--the color, the power of the oratory and, frankly, being willing to stand by the courage of his convictions. He is a great Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to include this in the RECORD today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is all so timely. In this Washington Post article, the lead editorial is: ``Catholic `Criminals' in China.'' 
   The first sentence reads:  
   The Communist regime in China has identified and rooted out another enemy of the state: 81-year-old Catholic Bishop Zeng Jingmu. 
   ..... Bishop Zeng was nabbed last Thursday.  
   He spent a good many years in prison.  
   ..... Bishop Zeng has been guilty of a single crime all along: He is a Catholic believer.  
   Bishop Zeng was picked up last week and is now imprisoned again. I quote again from the editorial:  
   ..... Bishop Zeng has been guilty of a single crime all along: He is a Catholic believer.  
   Mr. President, every Senator should read this editorial today before they vote. I came to the floor of the Senate with an amendment. It merits a report from a commission we had established, to report back to us, a Commission on Religious Freedom, chaired by David Sapperstein. The commission looked at the situation in China and it made a recommendation to us. The commission's recommendation was, right now in China, as evidenced by what happened to this Catholic bishop, an 81-year-old bishop imprisoned for being a Catholic, that it is a brutal atmosphere and we in the Senate and the House of Representatives ought to at least reserve for ourselves the right to annually review trade relations with China so we can have some leverage to speak out on human rights. That amendment lost.  
   I brought another amendment to the floor. I said based upon China's agreement with the United States in 1991, a memorandum of understanding, and then another agreement in 1993, which the President used as evidence that we would delink human rights with trade policy with China, we should call on China to live up to its agreement that it would not export to this country products made by prison labor. Many of these people are in prison because they have spoken out for democracy and human rights. That amendment lost. 
   I brought another amendment to the floor of the Senate, which was an amendment that said men and women in China should have the right to organize and bargain collectively; they should be able to form an independent union. I cited as evidence Kathy Lee and Wal-Mart paying 8 cents an hour from 8 in the morning until 10 at night--mainly to young women. They get 1 day off a month. I said shouldn't we at least say we want to extend the right to annually review trade relations until China lives up to this standard? That amendment lost. 
   Then I offered an amendment with Senator HELMS from North Carolina, a broad human rights amendment, citing one human rights report after another saying that China needed to live up to the basic standard of decency when it comes to respecting the human rights of its people. That is a sacred issue to me--anywhere in the world. That amendment lost. 
   I want to conclude my remarks on the floor of the Senate in three ways. First, I hope I am wrong, but I believe we will deeply regret the stampede to pass this legislation and the way in which we have taken all the human rights, religious freedom, right to organize, all of those concerns, and we have put them in parentheses and in brackets as if they don't exist and are not important. I think we will regret that. I think we will regret that because if we truly understand the implications of living in an international economy, it means this. 
   It means that if we care about human rights, we have to care about human rights in every country. If we care about the environment--not just in our country--if we care about the right to organize--not just in our country--if we care about deplorable child labor conditions, we have to be concerned about that in every country. When we as the Senate and as Senators do not speak out on human rights, we are all diminished. When we have not spoken out on human rights in China, I think our silence is a betrayal. 
   I will make two other final points. 
   I have heard my colleagues argue ``exports, exports.'' I have spoken plenty about this legislation, and I will not repeat everything I said but just to say I think the evidence is pretty clear. Not more exports but more investment--there is a difference. 
   I think what will happen is China will become the largest export platform with low-wage labor under deplorable working conditions exporting products abroad, including to our country, and our workers will lose their jobs. Frankly, we will be talking about not raising the living standard of working people but lowering the living standard. 
   On agriculture, I think there was a piece in the New York Times on Sunday. Every day there is an article in the newspaper about China. It is not a pretty picture. It is as if many of my colleagues want to turn their gaze away from the glut in production--about the protests, about people being arrested for the protests. 
   Frankly, as to the argument that we are going to have many more exports to China and that is going to be the salvation of family farmers--the President of the United States came out to Minnesota and basically made that argument--we can have different views about human rights and whether or not there will be more respect for human rights as we have more economic trade relations in China, but so far that is not the evidence. I can understand how people honestly disagree. I don't believe that most-favored-nation status or normal trade relations with China is the salvation of family farmers for this country. 
   I want my words in this debate to be heard. I want to stick by these words, and I want to be held accountable. I want every other colleague who has made such a claim, that this will be the salvation for our family farmers in this country, to also be held accountable. 
   Finally, I say to Senators that I believe we will lose this. And people in good conscience have different viewpoints. I can't help speaking with some strong feeling at the end of this debate to say this: I will look at this debate and vote with a sense of history. One-hundred years ago, our economy was changing. We were moving to a national economy--industrialized national economy. You had farmers, laborers, religious communities, populists, and women. And they made a set of standards. They wanted an 8-hour day. They wanted to abolish some of the worst child labor conditions--antitrust action; women wanted the right to vote; direct election of U.S. Senators. They wanted the right to organize and bargain collectively. The Pinkertons were killing labor organizers. The media were hostile. Money dominated politics. But many of those demands became the law of the land over the years and made our country better. So it is today. This is the new economy. It is an emerging global economy. 
   What we were saying is we want to civilize the global economy and make it work--not just the large conglomerates. We want this new global economy to work for the environment; to work for family farmers and producers; to work for human rights; to work for religious freedom; to work for workers. That is what this debate has been about. 
   I think this will become where you stand in relation to this new global economy. I think it can become some kind of axis of American politics over the next 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9 years to come. 
   I am proud to stand for human rights. I am proud to stand for religious freedom. I am proud to stand for the right of people to organize. I am proud to stand for an international economy but an international economy that is based upon some standard of decency and fairness. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, though we are in disagreement, I thank my colleague from Iowa for his fine words on the floor of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a second? If the Senator needs time, I will give some of my time to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I ask my colleague whether, in the proper order, I could then follow Senator HARKIN, or after you two are done? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have my own time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before the Senator starts, I ask the Chair: I am in order to follow the Senator from Iowa; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to say at the very beginning to my colleague from Utah, for whom I have a lot of respect, that none of what I am about to say is aimed directly at him personally; quite the opposite. But I want to come out here and take very serious exception with the process and the result. 
   We finalized the legislative appropriations bill. Rather than having the Treasury and Postal appropriations bill coming directly from the floor of the Senate and having the opportunity to offer amendments, that bill was put into the legislative appropriations conference report. The two bills were basically linked to one another. This is a terrible way to legislate. 
   I say to the majority leader and others that we have been at this before and that I am out here on the floor of the Senate again today saying I take very serious exception to this. I cannot represent the interests of the people in the State of Minnesota very well when there is no opportunity to come to this floor and have amendments and try to make a difference. 
   I didn't come to the floor of the Senate to be a potted plant or a piece of furniture. In this particular case, I take exception with a couple of different things. 
   First of all, we have raised our salary to $141,300, and there is no opportunity for an amendment to be offered on the floor of the Senate to block this increase, no opportunity at all, no opportunity for any debate on this with an amendment. I can understand how the majority leader or someone on the majority party did not want to have an up-or-down vote. But I will tell you that I find it is very difficult to square raising 
   our salary to $141,300 at the same time we are not willing to raise the minimum wage from $5.15 to $6.15 over a 2-year period. It is just unbelievable to me. 
   I want to be clear about it again. The Congress, by taking the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill and putting the salary increase into it, then putting it  into a legislative appropriations conference report, is basically raising our pay without even taking a vote on it. 
   I want to tell you that is what gets us in trouble with the people we represent. This is exactly what gets us in trouble with the people we represent, and for very good reason. 
   Maybe the majority leader didn't want to have an up-or-down vote. Maybe the majority party didn't want to have an up-or-down vote. But I wanted an opportunity to come here to the floor of the Senate and say no way am I going to support raising our salary to $141,000 a year when this Senate and this conference has not been willing to raise the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $6.15 an hour. 
   To be very honest with Senators, I might raise another question, which is: Have we earned the salary increase? Have we passed a Patients' Bill of Rights? No. Have we passed prescription drugs extended onto Medicare? No. Have we reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act? No. Have we reauthorized the Small Business Administration? No. 
   In all due respect, we have done hardly any of the work of the people. We have not done much at all when it comes to the basic issues that affect the lives of the people we represent. Yet we are raising our salary to $141,000 a year. We are putting it into an unrelated conference report so that there will not be a vote on it. I think that is not a very direct way of conducting business. 
   I want to remind my colleagues of the words of Senator KENNEDY 4 years ago, when the Senate voted to gut rule XXVIII. That is the Senate rule limiting the scope of conference, and we are violating this conference report. I quote from Senator KENNEDY. This was 4 years ago, and it is so true to be prophetic.  
   The rule that a conference committee cannot include extraneous matter is central to the way the Senate conducts its business. When we send a bill to a conference we do so knowing that the conference committee work is likely to become law. Conference reports are privileged. Motions to proceed to them cannot be debated, and such reports cannot be amended. So conference committees are already very powerful. But if conference committees are permitted to add completely extraneous matters in conference--that is, if the point of order against such conduct becomes a dead letter--conferees will acquire unprecedented power. They will acquire the power to legislate in a privileged, unrenewable fashion on virtually any subject. They will be able to completely bypass the deliberative process of the Senate.  
   Mr. President, it is a highly dangerous situation. It will make all of us less willing to send bills to conference and will leave all of us vulnerable to passage of controversial, extraneous legislation any time a bill goes to conference. I hope the Senate will not go down this road. Today the narrow issue is the status of one corporation under the labor laws, but tomorrow the issue might be civil rights, States rights, health care, education, or anything else. It might be a matter much more sweeping than the labor law issue that is before us today. 
   That is exactly what we have done. What we have here today is a mini-omnibus measure, and I think it is exactly the road that Senator KENNEDY was warning we should not go down. 
   I say to colleagues that I think every Senator ought to object to what we are doing--every Senator, Democrat and Republican alike. 
   We had an opportunity in the later months of this summer when we came back to bring this appropriations bill to the floor. We could have dealt with the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill. If we had, I would have brought an amendment to knock out our salary increase. I would have added an amendment that said we do not raise our salary increase to $141,000 a year until we raise the minimum wage. I would like to have had an up-or-down vote. 
   All of us would have been held accountable, but that is not the way it was done. The majority party apparently doesn't want to have any votes any longer on any amendments whereby we will be held accountable. 
   Instead, anytime a Member desires--and I hope other Democrats will speak on this--it is true, they can take unrelated issues in matters, put it into a conference report, vote to raise our salary to $141,000 a year when we are not willing to raise the minimum wage from $5.15 to $6.15 over 2 years. They are in the majority. They can put it into an unrelated conference report, bulldoze it over us, and pass this legislation. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, I am not going to let it happen without speaking about it. There will come a time when they may not be in the majority and there will come a time when they may find provisions that are put into conference reports unrelated to the scope of that conference report antithetical to the values they believe in, against what they think is right, against a Member's ability to represent their State, and they won't like it one bit. But that is exactly what has happened today. It is not because of the Presiding Officer right now, the Senator from Utah. But I believe this is truly an egregious process. 
   Again, one more time--just to be clear to those who are following this debate--I want to be on record. As a Senator from the State of Minnesota, people did not elect me to vote for a salary increase to $141,000 a year, people did not elect me to be here not in a position to bring out any amendments on the floor of the Senate to represent their interests, and people certainly did not elect me to let others put a salary increase--we now go up to $141,000 a year--in a conference report so we don't have an up-or-down vote on it without someone speaking out against it. 
   I speak out against it. I am not showboating. I speak out against it not because I don't think Senators should make a decent salary. First of all, what bothers me the most is I don't think we have done much. I think this has been a do-nothing Senate. I don't think we have done much on most of the crucial issues that affect people's lives. I am not sure what we have done to earn this increase. 
   Second, and I think even more importantly, I don't know how in the world we can justify raising our salary to $141,000 a year when we are not even willing to raise the minimum wage. There are 10 million people in this country who would directly benefit, and many others who would indirectly benefit, from the raise of the minimum wage. There are 119,826 Minnesotans who would benefit from a $1 increase in the minimum wage over 2 years, and if we don't do that, the minimum wage increase that we did pass has essentially lost all of its value. It is not even keeping up with inflation. 
   So colleagues understand, we hear a lot about the booming economy. It is true, but not all the new jobs that are being created are living wage jobs. In 1998, 29 percent of all the workers were in jobs paying poverty-level wages. In some of the jobs where we have seen the greatest growth--waiter staff, cashiers, janitors, and retail sales people--people earn less than half of what is called a living wage. 
   A study released by the U.S. Conference of Mayors in 1998 showed that nearly 4 out of 10 Americans visiting soup kitchens for emergency food were working; they were working poor people. 
   I don't think I want to go into the statistics. We have so many people in this country who could benefit. We have people who work 52 weeks a year, 40 hours a week, and they are still not out of poverty. The raise in the minimum wage would make a real difference, from $5.15 to $6.15 over a 2-year period. 
   What are we doing instead? Instead, we are raising our salary to $141,000 a year. We are raising our salary through the worst process, whereby rather than risking someone bringing an amendment out and having an up-or-down vote, someone has put the Treasury-Postal appropriations bill into the legislative appropriations conference report. Quite clearly, it was done in a very deliberate way so we wouldn't have to have an up-or-down vote. 
   In conclusion, I object to this process. I believe one of the worst things we ever did was make it possible for the majority party--and I promise the Chair that when we are in the majority I will take the same position--to basically waive the rule and insist measures that are put in conference committee be related to the subject material, that we no longer have to deal with the scope of the conference, the worst thing we could have ever done in violation of this constitutional process, and certainly in violation of the very notion of accountability.  
   We have been down this road before. I have come to the Chamber many times and objected to this. This time I believe even more strongly in it. I say to my colleagues, if you want to raise the salary, go ahead, but don't do it in this way. And don't put one appropriations bill that we should have been able to vote on into an unrelated appropriations bill conference report, and then bring it to the floor where there is no opportunity for amendments. I can't have an amendment that says we shouldn't raise our salary to $141,000, but I will vote against this. And I am sorry because the Presiding Officer and other Senators have done good work and in both these appropriations bills there is funding for a lot of important work. 
   I am going to vote no for two reasons. A, I am on record objecting to the way we are conducting our business. I am on record in opposition to the way the majority party is bulldozing over the right of the minority to come to the floor of the Senate with amendments. Second, I am voting against this appropriations bill because I think it is an outrageous proposition that the Senate should vote to raise our salaries to $141,000 a year and we are not willing to vote, to even have a debate much less a vote, on raising the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $6.15 an hour over a 2-year period so people who work hard all year-round and are still poor, who don't earn a decent living and cannot take care of their children, are not even given the opportunity to be able to do better for themselves and their children. 
   I think it is egregious. It is absolutely egregious what has happened. I am in opposition to it. I hope other Senators will speak out in opposition to the process and in opposition to the Congress being so generous with our own salary and oh so stingy when it comes to looking out for the interests of many hard-working, working poor people in this country. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that 14 minutes of Senator DORGAN's time be yielded to Senator GRAHAM from Florida and that 6 minutes of my time be yielded to Senator GRAHAM of Florida. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read the names of some of those who have lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   September 19, 2000: 
   Angel Avila, 17, El Paso, TX; Patrick Codada, 21, Miami, FL; Hugo Contreras, 19, Houston, TX; Jose C. Diaz, 35, Chicago, IL; Alfred Harth, 26, Kansas City, MO; Pedro Hernandez, 23, Chicago, IL; Michael Jones, 18, Baltimore, MD; Michael K. Mills, 17, Chicago, IL; Guadalupe Munoz, 25, Houston, TX; Mario Cardenas Rivera, 18, Minneapolis, MN; Enrique Ortiz Suerez, 12, Minneapolis, MN; Ivory Williams, 18, Detroit, MI; Victor Williams, 17, Detroit, MI; Unidentified Male, 79, Portland, OR; Unidentified Female, 26, Norfolk, VA. 
   Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago yesterday. 
   September 18, 2000: 
   Carlos Barrera, 28, Dallas, TX; James D. Bivens, 30, Chicago, IL; Layuvette Daniels, 24, Atlanta, GA; Dedrick Jennings, 21, Memphis, TN; Julian Johnson, 17, Atlanta, GA; Amyn Noormuhammed, 25, Houston, TX; Brogdan Patlakh, 24, Philadelphia, PA; Cassiaus Stuckey, 35, Miami, FL; Rad I. Webster, 27, New Orleans, LA; Darel Whitman, 27, Dallas, TX; Joshua Young, 26, Detroit, MI; Unidentified Male, 48, Long Beach, CA. 
   One victim of gun violence I mentioned, 17-year-old Julian Johnson from Atlanta, was a popular student and football star from Douglass High School in Atlanta. One year ago yesterday, Julian was shot and killed in a drive-by shooting after a football game victory. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I understand S. 3068 introduced earlier today by Senator KENNEDY and others is at the desk, and I ask for its first reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I now ask for its second reading, and I object to my own request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce a technical amendment today that, if passed, would ensure that widows and widowers of Hmong veterans who died in Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam are also covered by the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act. This critical change would allow such widows to take the United States citizenship test with a translator. 
   Hmong soldiers died at 10 times the rate of American soldiers in the Vietnam war. As many as 20,000 Hmong were killed serving our country. They left behind families with no means of support. They left their loved ones to fend for themselves in a hostile country. 
   Twenty-five years later, we cannot give widows back their loved ones, though their loved ones gave their lives for us. All we can do is honor their service in a way that is long-overdue and give them the tools to become citizens in the nation for which they heroically fought, and died. 
   I want to thank so many of my colleagues who worked so hard to see that the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act pass through Congress and become law. Hmong widows should have been included when this legislation was first passed and they were not. This amendment simply corrects something that should have been done long ago. I urge its swift passage. 
   Mr. ASHCROFT: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my understanding is we are now considering amendment No. 4120. 
   Mr. President, this amendment would delay the effective date of PNTR until the President can certify that China has provided a full accounting of activists who have been detained or imprisoned for their labor activities and China is making ``substantial progress'' in releasing these activists from prison. 
   What we are really talking about here is that this amendment calls upon the President to delay the effective date of PNTR until we get from China an accounting of those citizens who have now been imprisoned in China because they have tried to exert their human rights to organize and bargain collectively so they can make a decent wage, so they can work under civilized working conditions, so they can support their families. 
   What we are talking about is we want to see some evidence that China has made substantial progress in releasing these activists from prison. We do not have an exhaustive list of all the labor activists who are now serving prison terms in China. There are many of them about whom the facts are unknown. That is one of the reasons this amendment calls on China to provide a full accounting. But I will draw from what empirical evidence I have as a Senator, a Senator who is concerned about human rights and the right of people to be able to organize their own independent unions. I will draw from two sources of information. The first is the U.S. State Department Human Rights Report which actually confirms that the Chinese Government has been persecuting and incarcerating labor activists. 
   According to the State Department:  
   Independent trade unions are illegal. ..... Following the signing of the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights in 1997, a number of labor activists petitioned the Government [Chinese Government] to establish free trade unions as allowed under the Covenant. The Government has not approved the establishment of any independent unions to date.  
   Now I will talk about some specific examples. First, I will draw from the State Department report--our State Department report of this past year. 
   Two activists in January were sentenced to reeducation through labor for 18 months and 12 months, respectively. Why were they arrested? They were leading steelworkers in a protest because they had not been paid wages. 
   In January of this year, another activist, the founder of the short-lived Association to Protect the Rights and Interests of Laid-Off Workers, unsuccessfully appealed a 10-year prison sentence he received--10 years in prison. He had been convicted--for what? ``Illegally providing intelligence to a foreign organization.'' What was that foreign organization? It was a Radio Free Asia reporter, and he was talking about worker protests in Hunan Province. For that, a 10-year prison sentence. Do we not care about this? 
   In April of this year workers announced the formation of 
   the Chinese Association to Protect Workers' Rights. In July, a labor activist and China Democracy Party member was arrested on subversion charges. He was arrested after taking part in a workers demonstration outside the provincial government building. He was sentenced to 6 years in prison. 
   In July, another labor activist was sentenced to 10 years, and two others were sentenced to 2 years in prison for subversion. What is it that they had done wrong? They were out there trying to organize workers and the family of one of these activists alleged that the police hung him by his hands in order to extract information on fellow dissidents. 
   In August, another labor activist in China was given a 10-year prison sentence for illegal activities in the 1980s, and more recently he was also thrown in prison because he had organized worker demonstrations. This time he was convicted for providing human rights organizations overseas with information on protests--a 10-year sentence, prison sentence, for a man who had the courage to try to organize people and who then went to human rights organizations overseas with information about worker protests in China. He is now serving 10 years in prison. 
   Don't you believe we could at least ask China to provide us with some credible information that they were now letting these people out of prison; that they were doing something about all of the people who have been imprisoned? 
   This list is compiled by the ILO--Senator MOYNIHAN talked about the ILO yesterday on the floor of the Senate. A 28-year-old worker in a Hunan Province electrical machinery factory, was sentenced in 1989 to a life sentence for hooliganism. His reduced sentence is being served in prison and he now has been told he will get out in the year 2007. 
   A manual worker in Shanghai and a member of the Workers Autonomous Federation was sentenced in 1993 to 9 years in Shanghai prison for organizing a counterrevolutionary group. That from the ILO--my evidence. 
   A worker, organizer of another Workers Autonomous Federation was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment--for hooliganism again. That is the charge any time you demonstrate, any time you try to organize people, any time you have the courage to stand alone and speak up for democracy. 
   Another worker in Hunan, again, Yueyang City in Hunan, organizer of the Workers Autonomous Federation, was sentenced to 15 years--same charge, hooliganism. 
   A 39-year-old lecturer in the Comparative Literature Department at the Language Institute in Beijing was sentenced in 1995 to 20 years in Prison No. 2 for organizing and leading a counterrevolutionary group, and for committing counterrevolutionary propaganda and incitement.  
   A 30-year-old medical researcher in the Department of Psychiatry at Beijing's Anding Hospital was sentenced to 17 years in Prison No. 2 in Beijing for organizing and leading a counterrevolutionary group. 
   A 40-year-old worker at a chemicals accelerator fluid plant in Beijing was sentenced to 13 years in Prison No. 2 for organizing and leading a counterrevolutionary group. 
   Another activist was sentenced to 11 years in prison for organizing and leading a counterrevolutionary group. 
   Colleagues, I have other names and other examples. But I think there are several reasons why we should be concerned about the persecution and imprisonment of labor activists in China. 
   First of all, labor rights, the right to organize, recognized by international law, are a fundamental human right. When men and women have the courage to stand up for justice at the workplace, they ought not be locked up, they ought not be treated like animals, they ought not be serving 10-, 12-, 14-year prison sentences in China, and we should speak up for them. 
   Labor rights have been recognized in the documents that enshrine the most basic principles of human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 states, ``Everyone has the right to peaceful assembly and association. Everyone has the right to form and join trade unions for the protection of his''--and I would add ``or her''--``interests.'' 
   In a speech before the Industrial Relations Research Association in Boston this past January, former World Bank chief economist Joseph Stiglitz laid out an argument that economic development needs to be seen as part of a transformation of society and that workers organizations, the right to form a union, is key to this developmental process. 
   Do my colleagues know what he was saying? He was saying what we know: Independent unions and the right to form an independent union means you make a better wage; it means you have people who have enough money to consume; it means you are building a middle class; it means you have more economic justice; it means you have more stability. That is what Mr. Stiglitz was trying to say. 
   I will give my colleagues one more example of this brutality. An April 23, 2000, story in the Washington Post reported:  
   The number of labor disputes in China has skyrocketed -- to more than 120,000 in 1999--as workers, in unprecedented numbers get laid off, are paid late, or not paid at all and feel cheated by corrupt officials who sell state property for a pittance to friends, relatives, and colleagues.  
   We are talking about unsafe working conditions. We are talking about low wages. We are talking about the fundamental right of workers in China to organize and the compelling need, I believe, for us to support this right. 
   I will finish in a moment so we can have some votes, although I am anxious to hear whether there is any response. Above and beyond the human rights question, above and beyond the fact that we should not be silent--I have said this for the last several days--above and beyond the fact that we should be willing to speak up and vote for the rights of people to organize independent unions in China, we should not let this Government with impunity put people in prison for 12, 14, or 16 years because they have done nothing more than try to speak up for themselves and form a union so they can make a decent wage and they can support their families. 
   There is another reason. Senator SARBANES spoke about this on the floor of the Senate the other day. It is this: What we are going to see is not necessarily more exports to China but more investment in China. If we do not speak up for the right of workers to organize in China, China will become the export platform in this new international economy that we talk about, and it will be a magnet for any kind of company that wants to go there that knows it can freely exploit workers, pay workers 3 cents an hour, 10 cents an hour, 6 cents an hour, 20 cents an hour, all of which is happening right now, working people from 8 in the morning until 10 at night with a half an hour, at most, for a break. That is what we are going to see. 
   I do not know how many Senators will consider this before they vote, but if you do not want to vote for this amendment for human rights for workers in China, vote for this amendment for the people you represent in your own States because I am telling you--and this is just the future I am predicting--that our failure to adopt these amendments, our failure to focus on human rights, our failure to vote on human rights, our failure to vote on religious freedom, our failure to vote on the rights of people to organize and bargain collectively is going to lead to a new international economy where China, with the size of the country and the population, will become a magnet, it will become a low-wage export platform, and the people in your States are going to say to you: Where were you when you were asked to vote for us? Now you are saying to us, Senator, that you want us to compete against people who get paid as little as 3 cents an hour under the most brutal, exploitative labor conditions, and now we are losing our jobs as companies are leaving our States to go to China, and you had a chance to vote for the right for people to organize in China so they could make a decent wage and those workers would not be played off against us, and you didn't vote for it? 
   My colleagues should vote for this amendment because a vote for this amendment is not only a vote for human rights in China, not only a vote for the right of people to organize in China, but, most important of all, what this amendment is really about is simply saying to the President, before going forward with normal trade relations with China, at least--and I want to read this again--at the very minimum, the President needs to certify China has provided a full accounting of these activists 
   who are detained or imprisoned for their labor activities. 
   That is all the amendment asks, and China can show it is making substantial progress in releasing these activists from prison. That is what this amendment is about. 
   In a broader sense, this amendment is also about the right of people to organize and bargain collectively, and this is an amendment that says why should the people we represent in our States be put in a situation where they lose their jobs and where our communities lose businesses that go to China because they know they can pay miserably low wages, where people wind up in prison if they should dare get a better job, where they can actually export products made with prison labor, and we are not voting for amendments that give the people we represent in our own States some comfort that they themselves are not going to lose their jobs because of these absolutely brutal working conditions. 
   I do not think it is too much to vote for an amendment that asks for only one little piece of this. We will delay the effective date of PNTR until the President can certify that the Chinese Government has provided a full accounting of those people who have been detained or imprisoned for doing nothing more than trying to organize or trying to stand up for themselves and their families, and some accounting that this Government is releasing these innocent men and women from prison who have done nothing more than protest deplorable working conditions or tried to form an independent union. That is what this amendment is about. 
   I conclude this way, which is the way this debate started. We are forever being told that we live in a global economy, and that is true. For some reason, too many of my colleagues do not want to recognize the implications of this. For me, if we are now working and living in a global economy, that means if we are truly concerned about human rights, we can no longer just concern ourselves with human rights at home. 
   If we are truly concerned about religious freedom, we can no longer only concern ourselves with religious freedom at home. If we are truly concerned about the right of workers to organize and bargain collectively, and earn a better living for themselves and their families, then we can no longer concern ourselves with labor rights only at home. If we are truly concerned about the environment, we can no longer concern ourselves with the environment only at home. 
   I will say it one final time: The men and women in this world, who have been engaged in human rights issues, have long understood an essential, basic truth which is this: Americans,  Senators can never be indifferent to the desperate circumstances of exploited and abused people in the far reaches of the globe. When the most basic human rights and basic freedoms of others are infringed or endangered, we are diminished by our failure to speak out. 
   This amendment is a test case of whether or not we are willing to speak out. I say to my colleagues, since this is my last amendment, I believe we have made a big mistake--we will see what history shows us--in the rush to pass this piece of legislation. I think we have made a mistake because I believe the consequences, over the next 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years will be very harsh. 
   I believe the economics in this global economy we are all talking about will become a major axis of American politics. I believe the people that we represent are going to want to know where each of us stood. I believe we should have been making the effort to make sure this new global economy--with China being such a major actor--would be an economy not only working for big multinational corporations and big financial institutions, which I know are very interested in passing this, but it would also be a global economy that works for working people, a global economy that works for human rights, a global economy that works for children, a global economy that works for the environment. 
   I will say--and I am sorry because none of us can be sure we are right; and I understand that--I have not, in the course of this debate, seen very many Senators come out and present any empirical evidence to the contrary of what I have had to say about these basic rights of people. Why is it that we just turn our gaze away from this? I do not understand it. 
   I also think we have made a mistake in another way, I say to the Presiding Officer. I think we have made a mistake in the stampede to pass this legislation, in this rush to passage, in this argument that we dare not even pass an amendment. Even if it deals with the right of people to practice their religion, even if it puts the U.S. Senate and our country and our Government on the side of human rights, we cannot do that because then it would go to conference committee. I do not understand that argument, not when you think about what the stakes are, not when you think about this in personal terms. 
   Whatever happened to the voice of the Senate? Whatever happened to the strong clarion call for the Government of China, and all governments in the world, to respect the human rights of their citizens? Whatever happened to our justice voice? Whatever happened to our human rights voice? Why were these concerns trumped by this headlong stampede and rush to pass this legislation? 
   I conclude my remarks this way: We will see what happens in the future. 
   I thank my colleagues for their graciousness. I hope Senators will vote for this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have a very quick response to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will read a couple of paragraphs from the article. This was written by John Pomfret:  
   China once advertised itself as a socialist workers' paradise. But in its mad rush to become a modern industrialized nation in the 20 years since economic reforms opened doors to the West, China's cutthroat system has victimized average laborers.  
   Then it goes on to say:  
   ``Since 1980, labor standards in China have gotten worse,'' said Anita Chan, a senior research fellow of the Australian Research Council and an expert on China's labor issues.  
   I could go on and on. 
   I say to my colleague from Delaware, there are three parts to his argument that trouble me. First of all, this amendment has everything in the world to do with what is going on in China. This is not an amendment about labor law reform in the United States. That is an amendment I will bring to the floor at the very beginning of the next Congress. We will have a full debate about the right of people to organize in our country. 
   This is about China. This is about labor conditions in China. This amendment is about people who have been imprisoned because they have done nothing more than to speak out and protest against working conditions or trying to form a union. 
   This amendment just says, before the President goes forward, let's certify that China is willing to let these people out of prison, and that we are going to get some certification of some progress in that area. That is all this amendment is about. 
   The second thing I would say to my colleague from Delaware --we have had some of this discussion before--is that even if I believed he was right--and I think he is wrong--that actually we are going to see more exports that will lead to higher wages for American citizens, I do not believe people in the United States of America would be comfortable with the proposition that is being made on the floor of the Senate, at least by some, that since there is profit to be made, and more money to be made, and maybe more workers will do better in our country--which I will question in a moment--we should, therefore, turn a blind eye, turn our gaze away from these deplorable conditions; that we should not be concerned about the persecution of people who are trying to practice their religion; that we should not be concerned about human rights; that we should not be concerned about people who are imprisoned because they are trying to form a labor union. I do not believe most people in Minnesota or people in the country believe that. 
   Most people in Minnesota and the country believe these issues should be of concern to the U.S. Senators. We, after all, are representing people in our Nation. I think it is a very sad day when the United States of America refuses to speak out for human rights in any country. 
   Indeed, this will be a debate that will go on. What will happen is, given the fact that we have Wal-Marts paying about 13 cents an hour--and I have given examples of companies paying far less--China is going to become the export platform where people know that if they should dare to try to organize a union, they are going to be thrown in prison. So all these multinational corporations have carte blanche approval to go to China, pay hardly anything in wages, have people working under deplorable working conditions, and we are going to lose jobs. 
   We are not going to see a lot more exports. We will see a lot more investment. What better place to invest for some of the multinational corporations than a country where you know you don't have to worry about paying good wages, you know you don't have to worry about safe working conditions because, if people dare to protest or challenge this for the sake of themselves or their families, they wind up in prison. I see a very different economic future. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may we have order in the Chamber before I start? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have cited both the State Department Report on Human Rights and the International Labor Organization report this past year of courageous men and women who have done nothing more than protest deplorable working conditions and try to organize and bargain collectively and are now in prison. 
   This amendment simply says that PNTR depends upon an accounting from the Chinese Government about these people who are in prison and helps Congress in releasing these people from prison. I say to my colleagues, I believe during this debate we have put human rights concerns aside; we have put the rights of people who practice religion aside. These questions dealing with human rights, whether people are free to practice their religion, or whether people are free to protest deplorable working conditions, are important concerns. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak out on these. I hope I will get a good vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I ask unanimous consent that after Senator KENNEDY speaks, it be in order for me to bring my amendment to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I know my colleague from Maine wants 5 minutes to respond. I ask unanimous consent that after my colleague from Maine speaks, my colleague from California have 5 minutes as in morning business, and that I then be able to introduce the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, amendment No. 4119 deals with the human rights question; it deals with the trade question; it deals with the issue of Chinese exports to the United States of goods made by prison labor. 
   To curb such exports, this amendment is about existing agreements that we already have with China. This amendment just says we want China to live up to the existing agreements. The United States and China first signed a memorandum of understanding in 1992, which I will refer to as MOU throughout the debate. Then we signed a statement of cooperation in 1994. This amendment would require that the President certify that China is fully compliant with the two trade agreements that China has already made with us before extending PNTR to China. 
   Let me provide some background on U.S.-China agreements on trade in prison labor products and discuss China's deplorable record in complying with these agreements. Actually, they haven't complied with these agreements. The MOU was intended to end the export to the United States of goods produced by prison labor in China. China agreed to the United States' request back in 1992 that it would promptly investigate any companies that were involved in using prison labor to export products back to our country. But basically the Ministry of Justice in China completely ignored the agreement. 
   In 1994, therefore, we signed another statement of cooperation with them in which China said: We will agree and we will set some time limits so that within 60 days of the United States' request to visit such a facility we will make that happen. We will be expeditious in making sure we follow through on this agreement. 
   For the last 3 years, they have not followed through on any of these agreements. 
   Because of the good work of my colleagues, Senator HARKIN from Iowa and Senator LAUTENBERG from New Jersey--both of whom are going to speak on the floor of the Senate--for the first time in 3 years we had Customs able to visit one of these factories. But this really was the first time that China has budged at all. Other than that, we have seen no agreement, or no followthrough on these agreements. 
   When I became a member of the Foreign Relations Committee 3 years ago, I remember the first hearing we held had to do with prison labor conditions in China and this whole problem of trade with China. Basically the consensus of all of the witnesses who testified, including administration witnesses, was that the Chinese compliance with our trade agreements was pitifully inadequate. There has been virtually no compliance with these agreements. 
   The State Department issued a country-by-country report in 1999 and also in the year 2000. I will summarize. I could quote extensively. Both of these reports make it clear that during the last 2 years, China has not complied with these existing agreements. 
   Let me simply raise a question with my colleagues. Here we have two trade agreements with China--two understandings. We have basically said to the Chinese Government that people in the United States of America would be outraged if they knew that part of what they were doing was exporting products to our country produced by prison labor. This is a human rights issue. It is a labor issue. And it is also a trade issue. 
   It is interesting. I talked about a memorandum of understanding. In 1994, the administration used as evidence the fact that China had signed the statement of cooperation. For the first time, the President said: I am going to switch my position and I am going to delink human rights from trade because it is a great step forward that China has signed this statement of cooperation. That judgment turned out to be premature. China's Ministry of Justice ignored seven U.S. Customs' requests for investigation submitted in March of 1994, the same month that the agreement was passed. 
   China, for years, has refused to allow U.S. officials access to its reeducation through labor facilities--let me repeat that--reeducation through labor facilities, arguing that these are not prisons. 
   China, in spite of these agreements, has said: We will not allow the United States access to our reeducation through labor facilities because these are not prisons. Beijing would have us believe that these are merely educational institutions. And nothing, if we are at all concerned about human rights in the Senate, could be further from the truth. 
   Reeducation through labor--known as ``laojiao'' in Chinese--is a system of administrative detention and punishment without trial. That is what it is. The U.S. Embassy in Beijing insists that reeducation through labor camps are covered by our trade agreements, the MOU. And this is confirmed by the MOU record. Beijing disagrees and continues to claim that these reeducation through labor facilities are not prisons. For over 5 years, China has repeatedly denied or ignored all U.S. requests to visit one of these facilities. We haven't been able to visit even one of these facilities. 
   What has been this administration's reaction to China's refusal to allow a visit? It has been the same as for all denied visits. We renew our request every 3 months, and the Chinese totally ignore us. This charade ought to  stop. It ought to stop now. That is why I hope there will be strong bipartisan support for this amendment. 
   What does ``reeducation through labor'' mean? Let me read some excerpts from Human Rights Watch reports on this subject:  
   The usual procedure is for the police acting on their own to determine a re-education term. Sentences run from one to three years' confinement in a camp or farm, often longer than for similar criminal offenses. A term can be extended for a fourth year if, in the prison authorities' judgment, the recipient has not been sufficiently re-educated, fails to admit guilt, or violates camp discipline. The recipient of a re-education through labor sentence has no right to a hearing, no right to counsel, and no right to any kind of judicial determination of his case.  
   That is a quote from a Human Rights Watch report on this subject. 
   Human Rights Watch also points out that inmates may have their reeducation sentence extended indefinitely, and concludes that reeducation through labor violates many of the provisions of international law, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which China signed in 1998. The covenant states:  
   Anyone who is deprived of his liberty by arrest or detention shall be entitled to take proceedings before a court in order that the court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of his detention.  
   Among other things, reeducation through labor bars the presumption of innocence, involves no judicial officer, provides for no public trial or defense against the charges. 
   Amnesty International has concluded that it is impossible for China to claim a commitment to the rule of law while maintaining a system that sentences hundreds of thousands of people without due process. I couldn't agree more. 
   According to the 1999 State Department report on human rights, there are 230,000 people in reeducation through labor camps. Conditions in these camps are similar to those in prisons. What does the report say about these conditions in prisons? It describes them as ``harsh, and frequently degrading for both political criminals and common criminals.'' The report says it is common for political prisoners to be segregated from each other and placed with common criminals. There are credible reports that common criminals have physically beaten up political prisoners at the instigation of the guards. 
   I am sure my colleagues will agree that reeducation through labor doesn't qualify as an institution whose sole aim is education and rehabilitation, as China claims. 
   Before certifying that China is in compliance with the MOU and SOC under this agreement, the President must affirm that China is permitting investigation and U.S. inspection of reeducation through labor facilities under the terms of both the memorandum of understanding and the statement of cooperation, two agreements that we have signed with China in 1992 and 1994. 
   I am offering this amendment because I think it addresses concerns that many Members have in the Senate about PNTR, concerns about China's appalling and worsening human rights record. 
   I heard my colleague from Nebraska say that the evidence is clear that opening up trade leads to more respect for human rights. The evidence is not clear on that. We have been doing record trade with China. We have a record trade imbalance. They export much more to the United States than vice versa. They export products made by forced prison labor in China. Over the last 10 years, we haven't seen more respect for human rights. Our own State Department reports that all of the human rights organizations reports point to harsh--and in some cases, worsening--conditions. 
   How can Senators reviewing our trade relations with China give up this little leverage that we have and think somehow it will promote human rights when, as a matter of fact, we have seen no evidence whatever that the Government is moving in that direction. We will give up what little leverage we have. 
   This amendment is about human rights. It is an amendment that speaks to whether or not we can depend upon China to honor trade agreements. It is an amendment that speaks to the concerns of working people, that they can't possibly compete with prison labor in China. 
   Senators, I offer this amendment and I call for support on this amendment for three reasons: (A) out of respect for human rights; (B) because we already have these trade agreements with China. This is the most directly relevant amendment to PNTR awaiting action. We already have trade agreements with China and they have not abided by these agreements. Tomorrow they could. In this amendment, we call upon China to live up to these agreements before we automatically extend normal trade relations. What is unreasonable about that? 
   Finally, I say to Democrats first, and Republicans second--Democrats first, because we are supposed to be more the party of the ``people''--in all due respect, a lot of our constituents, a lot of working people, a lot of labor people, have every reason in the world to be a bit skeptical about this new trade agreement and the new global economics when we have China exporting to our country products produced by prison labor. 
   I think this amendment is all about on whose side are we. Are we on the side of a repressive government that basically pays no attention to anything we say because the message we communicate is: We will, for the sake of commerce, sign any agreement; we are not concerned about these harsh conditions. But are we on the side of human rights? Are we on the side of the idea that China ought to live up to these trade agreements? Are we on the side of working people, laboring people in our own country who, by the way, will say to each one of you back in your States: Senator, we do not want to be put in a position of losing our jobs because this repressive government can export products made by forced prison labor in China and has not been willing to live up to any of the agreements they have signed with our country. 
   I ask my colleagues to carefully consider the following questions: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask consent this not be charged against my side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleagues, Senator LAUTENBERG will be speaking in just a moment, but until he comes out, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, until my colleague from New Jersey is ready, I want to again summarize this amendment for other Senators. This is the issue of Chinese exports to the United States of goods made by prison labor. This is an issue of the memorandum signed in 1992, I say to my colleague from Delaware, to deal with this problem. The Chinese Government agreed: Yes, we are going to stop this. 
   Then we signed another agreement, a statement of cooperation, in 1994. I have been on the floor citing State Department reports and other evidence--no question about it--that the Chinese  have refused to comply with these agreements. It has been blatant. People in our country would be outraged to know this. 
   I say to Senators, this is a three-pronged issue. I have talked about these reeducation labor camps. I have talked about the deplorable conditions. It is a human rights issue. I have cited human rights reports. I have said this is a trade issue. They have signed these agreements and have not lived up to them. I have said this is a labor issue. It permits ordinary people--which I mean in a positive way--in the States to be a little suspicious that they could lose their jobs as a result of this. 
   I hope my colleagues will support this. It is an eminently reasonable amendment. It simply says the President needs to certify that China is fully compliant with these two agreements, which they have already made with us, before extending PNTR to China. 
   I yield 12 minutes to my colleague from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from New Jersey. Before he came to the floor, I mentioned a report that he and Senator HARKIN had done. I really appreciate their strong voices as Senators for human rights. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
   I will wait to respond to arguments from the other side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I reserve a little bit of time for my colleague, Senator HARKIN. But let me just say to my colleague from Delaware, as to the argument that it is not necessary to have any new agreements, there is nothing new here. We have existing trade agreements. We signed an agreement in 1992 and in 1994. The Chinese Government agreed not to export products to our country made by prison labor. 
   They have not lived up to those agreements. This amendment just says we call on them to live up to the existing trade agreements before we go forward with PNTR. It is really that simple. 
   The bitter irony is they are in violation of one law; they are not supposed to be exporting products made by prison labor. And we are in violation of another law: We are not supposed to be importing those products. 
   My second point is, my colleague cites H.R. 4444. It is just a toothless remedy. This has a ``made-for-Congress'' look. We are going to set up a task force, and we are going to assist the Chinese Government in living up to these trade agreements. The Chinese Government does not need any assistance. They control the prison labor camps. They can live up to the agreements today. They can live up to the agreements tomorrow. They do not need a task force set up. So I cannot let my good friend from Delaware get away with this. 
   I just think it boils down to this: They have the largest forced prison labor system in the world; these are the functional equivalent of gulags. I could use, frankly, stronger terms, I say to my colleague from Delaware, to describe them. 
   Do we really want to be implicated in this? Do we want to be beneficiaries of these gulags? Do the citizens of our country--we are now speaking and voting in their name--want to be beneficiaries of this forced prison labor system, the largest in the world, these gulags, where we get products at a lower price because it is on the backs of people who are political prisoners, who have done nothing more than speak out for their freedom? I think not. 
   If we are concerned about it, we will support this amendment. There is no way around that, I say to my colleagues. This is a straight up-or-down vote on whether or not this is a concern to us. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I informed the distinguished chair of the Finance Committee that I would be ready to yield back time. I wonder if I could take 2 minutes and then I will yield back. 
   We will have a vote on the Thompson-Torricelli amendment, and there are going to be Senators who will come out and say: This is not about trying to scuttle this overall trade agreement. We will go to conference committee. We will get this worked out. And there is such strong sentiment for this overall agreement, this is a good thing to do. 
   I want to say to Senators, I hope when we vote on the amendment I have offered with Senator LAUTENBERG--and I believe Senator HARKIN will want to be an original cosponsor--there will be the same sentiment. If you think it is the right thing to do to vote for this amendment, if you think it is the right thing to do to say to China: We already have these trade agreements with you in regard to prison labor conditions and we are just asking you to live up to those agreements before, in fact, we finally go forward with PNTR--if you think this is an important human rights issue, if you think we should not be implicated in any way, shape, or form in the functional equivalent of these gulags, if you think this is a labor issue, if you think this is a trade issue--it is a very compelling issue--then please don't vote against what you think is right. 
   We can't have Senators being selective on this and voting one way on one amendment. Senators can say: We will not vote for any amendments, period. I have heard that. But now different people are voting for some amendments and not others. 
   I say to my colleagues: Vote for what you think is right. If you think this amendment I have offered is wrong, it is not the right thing to do based upon your sense of justice or right or anything else, then vote against it. 
   Otherwise, please vote for this amendment. Don't make the argument that I am voting against all amendments when, in fact, Senators are obviously going to be voting for some amendments. 
   I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I see other colleagues on the floor. I shall not take up all of our time. I am certainly interested in what the Senator from Wyoming and the Senator from New York have to say in this debate. 
   First, I thank my colleague, Senator HELMS from North Carolina, for offering this amendment. Also, there are probably not too many times I can remember over my 9 1/2 years in the Senate that I have been a cosponsor of a Helms amendment, but I am very proud to support this amendment and to speak, debate, and advocate with him on this question. 
   I say to my colleague from North Carolina and other Senators as well, I want to guard against appearing to be self-righteous about this, but I feel strongly about the question before us. I feel strongly about this amendment which says that China ought to abide by basic human rights standards. We ought to insist on that before we automatically extend normal trade relations with China, 
   before we give up our right to annually review normal trade relations with China. 
   Before I speak in giving this some context and talking about why, let me, one more time--I have heard some discussion on the floor and also seen in the press discussion about this debate--try to correct the record. 
   No one is arguing that we should now have an embargo on trade with China. Nobody is arguing for a boycott. Nobody is saying that we should not have trade with China. We do; we will. It is a record trade deficit, as a matter of fact. That is not the issue. Nobody is arguing that we should have no economic ties with China at all. We do; we will. 
   The question is whether or not we give up our annual right to review trade relations with China, which is what little leverage we have as a nation, as a country, to speak up about the violations of human rights, to speak up for religious freedom in China. That is the question before us. 
   I have always been intensely interested in human rights questions, whether it is as to China or whether it is as to any other country. I am sorry to say on the floor of the Senate that there are some 70 governments in the world today that are engaged in the systematic torture of their citizens. 
   I think it is important for the Senate, I think it is important for our Government, I think it is important for the American people, to speak up about these kinds of basic violations of people's human rights. 
   I say it for two reasons. First of all, I come from a family where my father was born in the Ukraine; then lived in the Far East; then lived in China before coming to the United States of America at age 17 in 1914, 3 years before the revolution in Russia. He thought he could go back, and then the Bolsheviks took over. His parents told him: Don't go back. And all his family, from all I can gather, were probably murdered by Stalin. All contact was broken off. No longer did my father receive any letters from his family. He never saw them again. 
   I say to my colleague from North Carolina--I am getting a little personal before getting into the arguments--at the end of my dad's life we were trying to take care of him so we would go over and spend the night with him. He had lived in this country for, oh, almost 70 years. He spoke fluent English. I don't know that I detected even any accent. But it was amazing; all of his dreams--they were nightmares; there was shouting and screaming--were in Russian. None of it was in English. He lived in this country all of those years; I only heard him speak English--talk about the child being father of man or mother of woman--and I think that is what happens when you are separated from your family at such a young age; your family is probably murdered. You never can go back to see them. You can never see your family again. 
   I believe strongly in human rights. I thank the Senator from North Carolina for his leadership on this question. 
   Then I had a chance to meet Wei Jingsheng. I say to my colleague, you know Wei very well. Here is a man who spent, I think, about 17 years in prison, several years in solitary confinement. What was the crime that he committed? The crime he committed was to continue to write and speak out for democracy and freedom in his country. That was the crime he committed. 
   I say to my colleagues that I really believe the rush for the money and the focus on the money to be made by our trade 
   policy with China within the new global economics that we talk about--this kind of rush for money, this focus on commercial ties on the money to be made has trumped our concerns about human rights, trumped our concerns, whether it is a Buddhist or a Christian or a Jew, you name it--it makes no difference--about whether people can even practice their religion without winding up in prison, trumped our concerns about whether or not we have a relationship with a country that has broken the 1992 and 1994 agreements where they said they would not export products to our country made by prison labor in the so-called reeducation labor camps, trumped our concerns about all of the women and men who were imprisoned because of the practice of their religion or because they spoke out for democracy, trumped our concerns about women and men who tried to improve their working conditions and found themselves serving 3 years, 8 years, 14 years, 15 years, trumped our concerns about a country that has more prison labor camps--it is like the equivalent of the gulags in Russia, in the former Soviet Union. And we do not want to speak out on this? 
   We don't want to at least say: wait a minute, we reserve our right, when it comes to normal trade relations, to insist that you live up to just basic standards of decency? We reserve our right to speak up for human rights. We reserve our right to speak up for religious freedom. We reserve our right to speak up against products that are exported to our country made by prison labor. We reserve our right to speak up for the right of people in China--and people all over the world--to bargain collectively to try to improve their standard of living. We do not want to consider any of that? We do not consider any of that? 
   I think we diminish ourselves, I say to Senator HELMS, when we do not support the kind of amendment the Senator has brought to the floor. I say to my colleagues, I hope there will be strong support for this amendment. 
   I have heard a number of Senators--all of whom I like, all of whom I like a lot--who have said, first of all: We cannot isolate ourselves. 
   We are not isolating ourselves. All we are saying is, don't we want to at least keep our leverage, so that we continue to have what little leverage we have to annually review our trade relations to make sure China lives up to the trade agreements, lives up to the human rights standards? 
   Then the other argument is: We have had all this trade with China, and it is so important, that, actually, when you automatically have trade relations with China, you promote human rights. I have heard that said at least 10, 15 times. But I say to Senators, where is your evidence? 
   I will tell you, if you look at the State Department reports of this year and last year, they talk about an absolutely brutal atmosphere in China. Your evidence certainly is not our own State Department report about human rights. Is your evidence the commission that we appointed, the Commission on International Religious Freedom, chaired by Rabbi Saperstein? They said, on the basis of their careful examination, we should not automatically renew trade relations with China because of the brutality, the denial to  people of their right to practice their religion. 
   I say to Senators, where is your evidence that we have had this trade with China and it has led to more freedom and less violation of human rights? Where is your evidence for that? You do not have any evidence. I have not heard one Senator come out here with any evidence. 
   My evidence, on behalf of this amendment, is that according to the State Department--this is last year's report--  
   The Government's poor human rights record deteriorated markedly throughout the year, as the Government intensified efforts to suppress dissent, particularly organized dissent. Abuses included instances of extrajudicial killings, torture, mistreatment of prisoners, and denial of due process.  
   That is the evidence. 
   Hundreds of thousands of people languish in jails and prison camps merely because, I say to my colleague from North Carolina, they dare to practice their Christian, Buddhist, or Islamic faith. Respected international human rights organizations have documented hundreds of thousands of cases--hundreds of thousands of cases--of arbitrary imprisonment, torture, house arrest, or death at the hands of the Government. 
   That is the record. I welcome any Senator to come out here and present other evidence to the contrary. 
   In recent months, we have witnessed--and I heard my colleague from North Carolina talk about this--a brutal crackdown against the Falun Gong, a harmless Buddhist sect. According to international news media reports, at least 50,000 Falun Gong practitioners have been arrested and detained, more than 5,000 have been sentenced to labor camps without trial, and over 500 have received prison sentences in show trials. Detainees are often tortured, and at least 33 practitioners of this religion have died in Government custody. 
   Senators, we are silent about this. 
   Chinese courts recently sentenced three leading members of the Chinese Democracy Party, an open opposition party. That is what we believe in. We believe in our country people should have the right to join parties. They should have a right to speak out. They should have the right to run for office, and they certainly should not wind up in prison. Three leading members of the Chinese Democracy Party, an open opposition party, were sentenced to terms of 11, 12, and 13 years. Their crime was ``for conspiring to subvert state power.'' 
   Charges against these three political activists included helping to organize the party, receiving funds from abroad, promoting independent trade unions, using e-mail to distribute materials abroad, and giving interviews to foreign reporters. That is their crime. They have been tried in closed trials with no procedural safeguards. The Government has crushed the party by doling out huge prison sentences to any man or woman who should dare to form their own political party. 
   I would think if there was any example that would resonate with every single Senator here, regardless of party, it would be this. 
   My colleague from North Carolina already talked about Ms. Kadeer's case. I will not go over that. 
   I will just say to Senators, I hope that on this amendment we will get your support. With all due respect, I hope that you do not make the following argument because I don't think it works. I hope you do not make the argument: No, I am going to turn my gaze away from all of these human rights abuses. I am going to turn my gaze away from supporting religious freedom. I am going to turn my gaze away from this record of brutality. I am going to turn my gaze away from the extrajudicial killings and torture. I am going to turn my gaze away from human rights because if an amendment passes, this will go to conference committee. 
   We have conference committees all the time. That is the way we operate. That is our legislative process. We have a conference committee and then it reports back. 
   With all the support for this overall bill, the conference committee would meet, the bill would come back, and then we would have a vote. But to say to people in our States, we couldn't vote for what was right, we couldn't vote for this amendment which was all about human rights, which is what our country is about, because, you see, it might go to conference committee and we have to have a bill with the exact same language between the House and the Senate, people will look at you and say: Senator, just vote for what is right. 
   I say to my colleagues, vote for what is right. Vote for this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do we have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will take a couple of minutes to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First of all, let me say to the Senator from New York that there is a bit of irony in his remarks because I had intended in this debate to also quote the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights of the ILO which states:  
   All members, even if they have not ratified the convention in question, have an obligation arising from the very fact of membership in the International Labor Organization to respect, promote, and to realize in good faith, in accordance with the ILO Constitution, the principles concerning the fundamental rights which are the subject of those conventions; namely freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  
   I could not agree more with my colleague from New York. It is very relevant language. 
   Here is the problem: the ILO has no enforcement problem. 
   Here is the problem: China has belonged to the ILO since 1918. How much longer are we supposed to wait for the Chinese Government to live up to this? This has been a pretty long time now. 
   My colleague raises a very fair question. Why is this amendment necessary? Given this declaration of principles, and given the establishment of the ILO, my point is: (a) no enforcement power; (b) we have seen no evidence that the Chinese Government has lived up to it. 
   I quote from our own State Department's human rights report of the past year which confirms the Chinese Government has been persecuting and incarcerating labor activists. According to our State Department:  
   Independent trade unions are illegal. Following the signing of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Culture Rights in 1997, a number of labor activists petitioned the Government, the Chinese Government to establish free trade unions as allowed under the covenant. The Government has not approved the establishment of any independent unions to date.  
   The State Department then goes on. My colleague says: Why is this needed? I will take a couple of minutes to list what has happened to a number of these different citizen activists. This is directly from our State Department report. 
   The Senator from New York is the intellectual force of the Senate. He makes the point that the harsh repression during Mao's years has improved. I have no doubt that the situation has improved. But I would just have to say, look, go to our State Department report. I can only go from the empirical evidence over the last number of years and looking at our own Commission on International Freedom and their recommendations. They did a very careful study. We commissioned them to do the study of what the situation is on religious freedom. 
   It is a picture of repression. It is not a picture of the ILO having enforcement power making any difference. It is not a picture of a country that has a respect for human rights. It is not a picture of a country respecting people who practice their religion. 
   From our own State Department report: Two labor activists were sentenced in January to reeducation through labor--and the Chinese Government insists their reeducation through labor camps are not prisons. They give no human rights organizations any access. They say they are not prisons. Where have we heard this before on reeducation through labor--for 18 months and 12 months, respectively. The two were arrested in 1998 after leading steelworkers in a protest because they had not been paid wages. 
   Another example: In January, the founder of a short-lived association to protect the rights and interests of laid off workers unsuccessfully appealed a 10-year prison sentence he received. He had been convicted of ``illegally providing intelligence to foreign organizations,'' after informing a Radio Free Asia reporter about worker protests in the Hunan province.  
   I could go on and on. In August, in our own State Department report, another activist was sentenced to 10 years for subversion. They were arrested in January after establishing the China Workers Watch, an organization to defend workers rights. The family of one of these activist alleges that the police hung him by his hands in order to extract information on a fellow dissident. That is from a State Department report this year that I am now using as my evidence. 
   In August, another labor activist was given a 10-year prison sentence for illegal union activities in the 1980s, and more recently because he organized demonstrations in Hunan. This time he was convicted for providing human rights organizations overseas with information on the protests. 
   I have about 30 examples from this 1 report. 
   I say to the Senator from New York, I understand the ILO, its mission, its history--not as well as the Senator. I understand it does not have enforcement power and that China has belonged to it since 1918. I understand that China is not abiding by or bound by this. I also understand that all the reports we have over the last several years do not paint a picture of improvement. We do not have an amendment that says we don't have trade with China; we do not have an amendment that says we should boycott China or we should have an embargo of trade with China. We have an amendment that just says that before automatically extending trade relations every year or before automatically extending PNTR, our Government should insist that the Chinese live up to basic human rights standards. 
   My colleague from New York cited one of the great heroines of Tiananmen Square. I take what these brave people say very seriously. But it is also true that others, including Harry Woo and other men and woman who were at Tiananmen Square who are now in our country leading the human rights organizations, say the opposite. We know there are two different views. 
   I think we should not be silent on these basic human rights questions. We should not be silent when it comes to repression against people. We should not be silent about the prison labor conditions. 
   In 1992, the memorandum of understanding, and in 1994, we had another agreement with China where they agreed they would not export products to our country made by prison labor. They haven't complied with any of these agreements. 
   I think this amendment is timely. I think there is plenty of evidence that speaks for this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The Senator is right, but the irony is that by this law the Chinese shouldn't be exporting and we shouldn't be importing. The problem is, because of the good work of Senator LAUTENBERG and Senator HARKIN, for the first time in 3 or 4 years we were finally able to go to one of these factories and do an on-site investigation. 
   The problem has been not that we haven't tried; it is that every 3 months we make a request and every 3 months we have been turned down. This has been going on for years now. It is hard to argue that this amendment is not timely, relevant, and important in terms of whether or not we go on record for human rights. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000912</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Marty Gensler, who is a fellow in my office, have floor privileges during the rest of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000911</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution that I will soon send to the desk to proclaim September, 2000, as ``National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month,'' and to recognize the Administration, government agencies, and the many groups supporting this effort highlighting the critical need to support our children and adolescents in addiction treatment and recovery. The Year 2000 Recovery Month theme is ``Recovering Our Future: One Youth at a Time,'' with a clear message that we need to increase awareness about alcohol and drug addiction and to promote treatment and recovery for our youth. 
   Addiction to alcohol and drugs is a disease that many individuals face as a painful, private struggle, often without access to treatment or medical care. But this disease also has staggering public costs. A 1998 report prepared by The Lewin Group for the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, estimated the total economic cost of alcohol and drug abuse to be approximately $264 billion for 1992. Of this cost, an estimated $98 billion was due to addiction to illicit drugs and other drugs taken for non-medical purposes. This estimate includes addiction treatment and prevention costs, as well as costs associated with related illnesses, reduced job productivity or lost earnings, and other costs to society such as crime and social welfare programs. 
   Adults and children who have the disease of addiction can be found throughout our society. We know from the outstanding research done at the National Institute on Drug Abuse at the National Institutes of Health that although there were improvements in 1999 in some areas of drug use, the use of illicit drugs among our 13-18 year old children has increased significantly, particularly in the use of alcohol, Ecstasy, anabolic-androgenic  steroids, and heroin. More than half of our nation's 12th graders reported that they have tried an illicit drug, and more than one-quarter have tried a drug other than marijuana. And, although the consumption of alcohol is illegal for those under 21 years of age, more than 10 million current drinkers are age 12 to 20. 
   The Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) has recognized that the number one priority for the nation's National Drug Control Strategy is to educate and enable America's youth to reject illegal drugs as well as alcohol and tobacco. And yet, 80% of adolescents needing treatment are unable to access services because of the severe lack of coverage for addiction treatment or the unavailability of treatment programs or trained health care providers in their community. The 1998 Hay Group Report revealed that the overall value of substance abuse treatment benefits has decreased by 74.5% from 1988 through 1998, leaving our youth without sufficient medical care for this disease when they are most vulnerable. 
   We know that addiction to alcohol and other drugs contribute to other problems as well. Addictive substances have the potential for destroying the person who is addicted, as well as his or her family. We know, for example, that fetal alcohol syndrome is the leading known cause of mental retardation. If a woman who was addicted to alcohol could receive proper treatment, fetal alcohol syndrome for her baby would be 100 percent preventable, and more than 12,000 infants born in the U.S. each year would not suffer from fetal alcohol syndrome, with its irreversible physical and mental damage. 
   We know too of the devastation caused by addiction when violence between people is one of the consequences. A 1998 SAMHSA report outlined the links between domestic violence and substance abuse. We know from clinical reports that 25-50% of men who commit acts of domestic violence also have substance abuse problems. The report recognized the link between the victim of abuse and use of alcohol and drugs, and recommended that after the woman's safety has been addressed, the next step would be to help with providing treatment for her addiction as a step toward independence and health, and toward the prevention of the consequences for the children who suffer the same abuse either directly, or indirectly by witnessing spousal violence. 
   The physical, emotional, and social harm caused by this disease is both preventable and treatable. We know from the outstanding research conducted at NIH, through the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcoholism, that treatment for drug and alcohol addiction can be effective. The effectiveness of treatment is the major finding from a NIDA-sponsored nationwide study of drug abuse treatment outcomes. The Drug Abuse Treatment Outcome Study (DATOS) tracked 10,000 people in nearly 100 treatment programs in 11 cities who entered treatment for addiction between 1991 and 1993. Results showed that for all four treatment types studied, there were significant reductions in drug use after treatment. Moreover, treatment resulted in other positive changes in behavior, such as fewer psychological symptoms and increased work productivity. 
   Addiction to alcohol and drugs is a disease that affects the brain, the body, and the spirit. We must provide adequate opportunities for the treatment of addiction in order to help those who are suffering and to prevent the health and social problems that it causes, and we know that the costs to do so are very low. A 1999 study by the Rand Corporation found that the cost to managed care health plans is now only about $5 per person per year for unlimited substance abuse treatment benefits to employees of big companies. A 1997 Milliman and Robertson study found that complete substance abuse treatment parity would increase per capita health insurance premiums by only one half of one percent, or less than $1 per member per month--without even considering any of the obvious savings that will result from treatment. Several studies have shown that for every $1 spent on treatment, more than $7 is saved in other health care expenses. These savings are in addition to the financial and other benefits of increased productivity, as well as participation in family and community life. Providing treatment for addiction also saves millions of dollars in the criminal justice system. But for treatment to be effective and helpful throughout our society all systems of care--including private insurance plans--must share this responsibility. 
   The National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month in the year 2000 celebrates the tremendous strides taken by individuals who have undergone successful treatment and recognizes those in the treatment field who have dedicated their lives to helping our young people recover from addiction. Many individuals, families, organizations, and communities give generously of their time and expertise to help those suffering from addiction and to help them to achieve recovery and productive, healthy lives. The Recovery Month events being planned throughout our nation, including one in St. Paul, Minnesota, on September 18, will recognize the countless numbers of those who have successfully recovered from addiction and who are living proof that people of all races, genders, and ages recover every day from the disease of alcohol and drug addiction, and now make positive contributions to their families, workplaces, communities, state, and nation. 
   I urge the Senate to adopt this resolution designating the month of September, 2000, as Recover Month, and to take part in the many local and national activities and events recognizing this effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I don't think we have reached an agreement on amendments yet. It is my intention to have some good, substantive debate on amendments. I have a number of amendments I want to bring to the floor. I certainly will agree to time limits on each of these amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. It is not on paper yet, but I think that is what we will agree to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. No. There are a few things to be worked out first. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first, I say to colleagues that if I was not on the floor right now, I would be in the Foreign Relations Committee. Senator BROWNBACK is conducting some hearings that deal with religious freedom in China. This amendment also deals with the same question. 
   I rise today, Democrats and Republicans, to offer an amendment. I offer this amendment with Senator HELMS of North Carolina. I believe later on Senator FEINGOLD is going to want to be added as a cosponsor. 
   This amendment will prove that our country cares deeply about religious freedom and our country is not indifferent to the suffering of millions of Chinese who face religious persecution. Respect for religious liberty goes to the heart of American values. We cannot say that we are deeply committed to human rights and that we are deeply committed to religious freedom and then remain silent as we witness China's abuse of both of these rights. 
   Two years ago, in a 98-0 vote, the Senate overwhelmingly passed the International Religious Freedom Act, which created the Commission on International Religious Freedom. Congress instructed that the Commission make recommendations to us when it comes to how, through our foreign policy, we could promote international religious freedoms. It took this mandate seriously. After a year-long investigation, the Commission--and this is the report of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, which was issued May 1, 2000--found that ``The government of China and the Communist Party of China discriminates, harasses, incarcerates, and tortures people on the basis of their religion and beliefs.'' 
   My amendment follows verbatim the Commission's recommendation. It was the recommendation of this Commission, which we established by a 98-0 vote, to delay PNTR until China made ``substantial'' improvements in allowing its people the freedom to worship as measured by several concrete benchmarks. 
   People who believe in religious freedom have long understood a basic truth--that America, our country, can never be indifferent to religious persecution. When others are hounded or persecuted for their religious beliefs, we are diminished by our own failure to act or speak out. But when we embrace the cause of religious freedom, we reaffirm one of the great values of American democracy. 
   This legislation and this administration is focused on trade, which it is now promoting as a human rights policy. But trade alone will never guarantee change. This report, which I am going to read in a moment, on religious persecution in China issued just this year is brutal. The State Department issued its report on international religious freedom. 
   Senators cannot turn their gaze away from this unpleasant truth. They talk about a tremendous amount of persecution in China. 
   We have now had two reports by the State Department on human rights which have not reported great improvement. This past year, the State Department report on human rights abuses talked about a brutal climate in China. We cannot reward China with PNTR while it continues to harass and jail people because of their religious beliefs. 
   Just yesterday, the Washington Post reported that China has indicted 85 members of a Christian sect in a followup to the recent retention of 130 of its members and the expulsion of 3 
   American missionaries. 
   With passage of PNTR, the United States of America gives up our annual right of review of China's most favored nation trade privileges as well as our bilateral trade remedy. We have not used this leverage as effectively as we should. But do we want to give up all of this leverage? Do we want to say we do not take into account this religious persecution in China and we will no longer annually review trade relations to maintain some leverage and some voice in support of the right of people in China to practice their religious beliefs? 
   During the debate on the International Religious Freedom Act, many of my colleagues made impassioned speeches that U.S. foreign policy should never ignore the importance of this fundamental right of people to be able to practice their religion and not be persecuted in our dealings with other countries. In fact, Congress instructed the Commission to make recommendations to ensure that American foreign policy promotes international religious freedom. 
   That is what this amendment is about. 
   The Commission's members--because I am going in a moment to mirror their recommendations, which is what this amendment basically reflects--are drawn from both parties and represent extremely diverse points of view, including, by the way, the members of this Commission as strong proponents of free trade. Its members include Elliot Abrams, former assistant to President Ronald Reagan; John Bolton of the American Enterprise Institute; Rev. Theodore McCarrick, the Archbishop of Newark; Nina Shea of Freedom House; and Rabbi David Sapperstein, director of the Religious Action Center for Reform Judaism. 
   Despite the Commission's extraordinary diversity, its members unanimously agreed on no PNTR for China. We voted 98-0 for this legislation. We established this Commission. We asked this Commission to present to us recommendations about how we could promote religious freedom. The Commission took this mandate seriously. I want to just quote from this Commission's report. Its members unanimously agreed that we should vote no on PNTR for China.  
   Given the sharp deterioration in freedom of religion in China during the last year, the Commission believes an unconditional grant of PNTR at this moment may be taken as a signal of American indifference to religious freedom.  
   We are just asking in our amendment that Democrats and Republicans go on record as not being indifferent when it comes to the question of religious freedom. 
   I will explain my amendment in a moment. I see my colleague, Senator HELMS, on the floor. I yield to the Senator from North Carolina and ask unanimous consent that I be able to follow him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from North Carolina. Mr. President, so that all Senators will know what this amendment does, let me be very precise about it. I look forward to hearing a response from my colleague from Nebraska. 
   It tracks the recommendations of the Commission on Religious Freedom precisely, that the U.S. Congress should grant PNTR, the Commission said, only after China makes substantial improvements with respect to freedom of religion as measured by the following standards, which I think are not unreasonable: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague. That is more than a reasonable way to proceed. I say to my colleague from Nebraska before he responds, so we can move forward in an expeditious way, I will be prepared when I get the floor to lay my amendments out and then lay them aside so other Senators can offer amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me, first of all, say to the Senator from Nebraska and to other Senators, that I appreciate what he said, although I think some of my colleagues' remarks were more general remarks about the overall trade agreement. I will try to respond to a little bit of that. But I don't want Senators to get away from what this amendment is about and this vote. 
   By a 98-0 vote, we supported the International Religious Freedom Act. We said that we were concerned about promoting religious freedom throughout the world. This legislation called for a commission to be set up, called the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, to make recommendations to us about how we could promote religious freedom throughout the world. 
   This Commission has come up with a recommendation about China. What this Commission has said--a Commission with extraordinary diversity; some of its members for PNTR, other members against it; some of its members Republican, some of its members Democrat; some of its members Christian, Jewish, you name it--and I quote:  
   Given the sharp deterioration in freedom of religion in China during the last year, the Commission believes an unconditional grant of PNTR at this moment may be taken as a signal of American indifference to religious freedom.  
   That is what this amendment is about. That is what this vote is about. This amendment mirrors the recommendations of this Commission. 
   This amendment does not say that we should not trade with China. This amendment does not say that we should isolate 
   China. This amendment does not say that we should not continue to have economic relations with China. This amendment does not say we should boycott China. This amendment is not a China-bashing amendment. This amendment goes to the very heart of what we say we are about as a country and what we are about as a Senate. 
   All this amendment says is that before we finally sign off on PNTR, before we automatically renew normal trade relations--or what we used to call most favored nation status--with China, let's at least call upon China to live up to the following standards: China will agree to establish a high-level and ongoing dialog with the U.S. Government on religious freedom issues; China will agree to ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which it signed in 1998; China will agree on unhindered access to religious leaders, including those who have been imprisoned; China will give us a detailed response to inquiries about a number of people who have been in prison or detained or whose whereabouts are not known; and China will show they have made substantial progress in releasing from prison all persons incarcerated for religious reasons. 
   This amendment does not say we do not trade with China. This amendment does not say we do not have economic relations with China. This amendment just says that we ought to, in this trade agreement, not just focus on the ``almighty'' dollar. By the way, we will have this debate tomorrow. 
   I said yesterday--and I know other Senators will say it--my colleague from Nebraska talks about all these exports. I want to tell you, we are going to see a lot more investment, not necessarily more exports. When I hear my colleague from Nebraska describe what is freedom in China, and what is going to go on, I can't figure out exactly what he is trying to get at. We have these two reports on the brutal treatment of people. 
   I just spent 30 or 40 minutes giving examples of the persecution in China. We have the State Department report on human rights abuses. We have all the human rights organizations reports. We just want to say no, that doesn't matter? We don't want to take this into account at all? We don't want to at least pass an amendment that says yes to normal trade relations, but, China, you must at least live up to these elementary conditions, this sort of basic definition of decency? We don't wanted to go on record supporting that? 
   We have U.S. companies going to China right now, and they are paying 3 cents an hour. We have people working from 8 in the morning until 10 at night, with maybe a half an hour off from work, under deplorable, horrible working conditions. If they should dare to try to organize a union, they wind up in prison serving 3- to 8-year sentences. I hear from my colleagues we are all concerned about freedom. The evidence just does not support that. 
   Let me be clear by way of summary: This amendment I have introduced--cosponsored by Senator HELMS and, I believe, Senator FEINGOLD--says we are going to take seriously the International Freedom Act that we passed, we are going to take seriously the recommendations of this report, we are going to say there will be normal trade relations, but the Chinese Government does have to live up to these standards; we are not going to be indifferent to the religious persecution that is taking place in this country. 
   If this report had not come out by the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, if the State Department had not come out with a report saying it is brutal what is happening to people--Christians, Muslims, Catholics, you name it--then I wouldn't have this amendment. But this is the evidence that is staring us in the face. 
   The amendment I have introduced calls upon the Senate not to be silent on this question. I know all about some of the companies that have all of their ideas about investment. I know the ways in which they are going to make China an export platform, where they can pay people miserably low wages and then send products back to our country. They are doing that right now. I understand all of the economic power behind this. But I ask my colleagues, are there not other values that matter to us? How about religious freedom? 
   Again, I say to my colleague from Nebraska, this isn't about whether or not this bill will pass. That is not a legitimate excuse to vote against this amendment. If you feel strongly about religious persecution and you do not want to be indifferent, then you should support this amendment. If we pass this amendment and this bill goes to conference committee, then it will be rereported out of conference committee. And if there is the will to pass this and there is overwhelming support for establishing normal trade relations with China without annual review, it will pass. Everyone knows that. Don't use that as an excuse. Just vote for what you think is right. 
   Don't go home to the coffee shops in your State and say: Well, yes, I think these reports about persecution of people were terrible. I certainly didn't want the Senate to be indifferent, and I didn't want to communicate a message to the Chinese Government that all we care about is the economics, we don't care about these issues. The thing of it is, I couldn't vote for this amendment because if I voted for this amendment, then the bill wouldn't have been passed in the same form in the House and the Senate. And then it would have had to go to conference committee, and that would have meant there would be some delay. I didn't want there to be any delay. 
   People's eyes will glaze over. They will look at you, and they will say: Why don't you just vote for what you think is right or wrong. Don't give us this insider talk which, by the way, is not so persuasive. 
   We could pass this bill in any number of different ways with this amendment. I hope my colleagues will support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I know Senator BYRD has some amendments. What I will do is send up my  other amendments and ask for their consideration. Then I will lay them aside so other colleagues may introduce their amendments. I send my other four amendments to the desk en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, all these amendments will have debate and time agreements, and we will move along. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have already made my arguments. I ask unanimous consent that Senator FEINGOLD be added as an original cosponsor of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, again, on this one procedural point, maybe there is something I don't understand about the Senate, but I have been here 10 years. We do have conference reports and conference committees. This is the most amazing argument. All of a sudden, people are coming to the floor and saying we can't vote for any amendment because there will be no conference committee, or there might be one, but then the bill will be dead. What? We have conference committees all the time. 
   If Senators want to pass this, and if this amendment or other amendments pass and this bill is in a different form, it will be a better bill than we have. Believe me, it will go to conference. And given this steamroller on behalf of this legislation, with so many people wanting it to pass with such powerful interests in the country for it, believe me, it will go to conference committee and the conference committee will report right back to us, and it will pass if we want it to pass. You can't make the argument that a vote for the amendment kills the bill. Vote for the amendment on its merits up or down but don't make that argument because it is simply not accurate. 
   Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask that the vote occur now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000906</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to follow the Senator from Montana in this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000906</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Montana for his remarks. We are not in agreement on this question, but I have a tremendous amount of respect for his work in the Senate. 
   Let me, first of all, state at the beginning of this debate that it is commonly assumed the Senate is going to pass PNTR. For most, this is a foregone conclusion, but I think this is an extremely important debate and, as a matter of fact, one of the reasons I am very proud to be a Senator from Minnesota is that, unlike the House of Representatives where it was really difficult to have an extensive debate, we will have that debate in the Senate. I will have a number of amendments I will bring to the floor. They will be substantive. I think my colleagues will believe they are thoughtful, and we will have up-or-down votes. 
   I also echo the remarks of my colleague from Montana when he says we should be very clear about what this debate is about and what it is not about. This debate is not about whether or not we have trade with China. We do have trade with China. We will have trade with China. It is not about whether or not we communicate with China. We most definitely will. It is not about whether we isolate China. We are not going to do that. It is not about whether we should have an embargo of China, as we do with Cuba. That is not even on the radar screen. 
   Nobody is talking about any of that. The question before us is whether or not we in the Congress give up our right to have annual review of normal trade relations with China--we used to call it most-favored-nation status--whether or not we 
   give up what has been our only leverage to promote noncommercial values--I emphasize that, I say to my colleagues--noncommercial values in our trading relationships, such as human rights, labor rights, and environmental protection. Do we put human rights, labor rights, environmental protection, religious rights, the right not to be persecuted for practicing one's religious beliefs or exercising one's religious beliefs in parentheses, of no interest or concern to us, or do we maintain some leverage as a country to speak out on this? 
   The larger question is not whether China is integrated into the world economy. China is a part of the world economy. The questions are: Under what terms will China be integrated? what will the rules be? who will decide those rules? who will benefit from these decisions? and who will be harmed by them? 
   The trade agreement negotiated by the United States and China last November and the PNTR legislation currently before the Senate provide very discouraging answers to these questions as to who will decide, who will benefit, and exactly who is going to be asked to sacrifice. 
   Our bilateral agreement contains page after page of protections for U.S. investors. It is a virtual wish list for multinational corporations operating in China and for those who wish to relocate their production there, but it contains not a word about human rights, nothing about religious freedom, nothing on labor rights, and nothing on the environment. 
   It has been said that the United States could not demand such things because we have conceded nothing in our deal with China. That is far from the truth. With PNTR, the United States gives up our annual review of China most-favored-nation trading privileges, as well as our bilateral trade remedies. 
   MFN review has not been used as effectively as it should be, I grant that, but it is about the only leverage we have left to speak up for human rights, and when we as a nation do not speak up for human rights in other countries, we diminish ourselves. Just ask Wei Jingsheng, who I hope will receive the Nobel Prize for his courageous speaking out for democracy in China. Ask him the difference it made when every year normal trade relations with China came up for review here while he was in prison. The treatment was better. The Government was worried about what we would do. Now we give up that leverage. 
   It is also true that our bilateral trade remedies have not been used as effectively as they should, but section 301 remains our only explicit remedy against China's violation of core labor standards. 
   The United States right now absorbs 40 percent of China's exports. The argument that we could not have done better by way of some concessions on  these basic issues falls on its face. In exchange for the concessions we have made to China, could we not have at least exacted some concessions with regard to human rights? We did not. Yet this year's annual report by the State Department says China's human rights performance continued to worsen in 1999. 
   Today in the New York Times there is another State Department report which we called for, we required, on the whole question of religious freedom or lack of religious freedom. I quote from just the first two paragraphs of today's New York Times:  
   As more and more Chinese seek to practice faiths including Tibetan Buddhism, Christianity and Islam, government officials have increasingly responded with harassment, extortion, detention, and even torture, the State Department said today. 
   As a result, a ``marked deterioration'' in religious freedom has occurred in China during the last year, enabled by a new law granting state and local officials broad authority to suppress 14 minority religions, including the Falun Gong movement, the State Department said in its second annual report on religious freedom around the world.  
   We have had more relations, more trade, and this vote is coming up this year, and when it comes to the question of whether people can exercise the right to practice their own religion, there is more persecution. 
   I will have an amendment that will deal with the whole question of religious freedom. It will mirror the conclusions of a commission we set up to look at religious freedom throughout the world, to look at religious freedom in China, a commission which recommended to the Congress that we not grant automatic trade relations with China unless the Chinese Government meets essential minimum decency requirements when it comes to not persecuting people because of their religious practice. 
   According to the State Department's report:  
   The government's poor human rights record deteriorated markedly throughout the year as the government intensified efforts to suppress dissent, particularly organized dissent. Abuses included instances of extrajudicial killings, torture, mistreatment of prisoners, and denial of due process.  
   We are talking about hundreds, maybe thousands, of people in China sentenced to long prison terms where they have been beaten, tortured, and denied medical care. 
   According to Amnesty International, throughout China, mass summary executions continue to be carried out. At least 6,000 death sentences and 3,500 executions were officially recorded last year. The real figures are believed to be much higher. Nor did we obtain any concessions on religious freedom in our negotiations with China. Scores of Roman Catholics and Protestants--I speak as a Jew--have been arrested. A crackdown on Tibet was carried out during the ``strike hard'' campaign. Authorities ordered the closure of monasteries in Tibet and banned the Dalai Lama's image. At one monastery which was closed, over 90 monks and novices were detained or ``disappeared.'' That is why the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom recommended delaying PNTR until China makes ``substantial improvement in allowing people the freedom to worship.'' 
   I say to my colleagues, do you just want to turn your gaze away from this question? 
   We obtained no concessions from China on complying with their existing commitments on forced prison labor which they have not lived up to. Harry Wu, a man of extraordinary courage and character, has documented China's extensive forced labor system. His research has identified more than 1,100 labor camps across China, many of which produce products for export to dozens of countries around the world, including the United States. 
   We demanded no concessions from the Chinese on their persecution of labor organizers. If you try to form an independent union, if you should want to make more than 3 cents an hour, or 14 cents an hour, if you should not want to work 16 and 18 hours a day, if you should want to be treated with some dignity, and you try to organize a union, then you are faced with 3 to 8 years in a hard labor camp. We pay no attention to this question at all, I say to Senators, Democrats and Republicans alike. 
   Absent any minimum standards for human rights, for labor, or for the environment, the most likely scenario is for China to become an export platform, attracting foreign manufacturers, with lax regulations, and wages as low as 3 cents an hour. 
   Unfortunately, many of the concessions that we chose to demand from China will only make it easier for the United States, for multinational corporations to relocate there, paying people 10 cents an hour, 3 cents an hour, 13 cents an hour--I am going to give examples in my opening statement in just a few minutes--in competition with American workers and ordinary people in our country, who, by the way, if they oppose our trade agreements, are accused of being backward, are accused of not being sophisticated, are accused of not understanding this new global economy in which we live. 
   Please forgive ordinary citizens and wage earners for their skepticism that without some basic standards, what you are going to see is China becoming a magnet for more and more companies to go there and pay people deplorable wages, with deplorable working conditions, while we lose our jobs. 
   I believe the time has come for a different approach in negotiating our trade agreements and for reforming the rules of the global economy. I want to make it very clear at the beginning of my opening statement, I say to my colleagues, I am an internationalist. I am a fierce internationalist. I am the son of a Jewish immigrant who fled persecution from the Ukraine, who was born in the Ukraine, and then lived in Russia, who spoke 10 languages fluently. I am not an isolationist. 
   But I will say today on the floor of the Senate that we should be looking forward, and we should be looking to how we participate in this new global economy, and how we can have some rules, some edifice, some kind of framework so this new global economy works for working people and the environment and human rights. Too many of my colleagues want to put all of these concerns in parenthesis. 
   I think we need to be clear about what is at stake. My colleague from Montana, Senator BAUCUS, said that as well. That is why so many people in this country are concerned about passage of this legislation. 
   The PNTR is being sold as an agreement to increase U.S. exports. I have heard this said a million times: If we pass PNTR, we will dramatically increase U.S. exports to China, and it will be a win-win--a win-win for agriculture, a win-win for 
   business, a win-win for labor. 
   This legislation and trade deal with China is much more about investment than it is about exports. It is much more about making it easier for U.S. firms to relocate jobs in China than it is about exports. 
   First of all, the argument that this debate is all about exports and reducing our trade deficit falls on its face. I say to my colleagues, last August the U.S. International Trade Commission, the ITC, completed a study on the effects of the China deal on our trade balance. The ITC found that the China deal will increase our trade deficit with China, not lower it. 
   Second of all, it is not at all true that we need PNTR to be able to have trade with China. China is already obligated, under the 1979 bilateral trade agreement, according to our own General Accounting Office, the GAO, to give us all of the benefits by way of tariff reductions that it gives any of the other WTO countries. Even the administration concedes this point. 
   Third of all, PNTR will lead to more imports from China by encouraging multinationals to invest in China manufacturing to export to the U.S. market. That is what this is all about. Big companies could go to China--I will give many examples--they would not have to worry any longer about annual reviews, about normal trade relations. They could go there. 
   People can't organize a union. They are thrown in prison. There is no respect for human rights. There is no respect for people to practice their religion. As a result, they could go there and pay people deplorable wages, under deplorable conditions, and then export back to our country. 
   Let me just be real clear about it. Before the House vote on PNTR--and I hope colleagues will listen--few noticed that the ITC had predicted that the trade deal with China would significantly increase investment of multinational corporations in China. But  after the House vote, the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the Wall Street Journal all carried articles laying out what this legislation is really about. 
   Now, as it is in the Senate, and we have the benefit of a little bit more wisdom and knowledge, let me just quote, first of all, an article entitled, ``Playing the China Card,'' from the New York Times:  
   Although the Clinton Administration often listed exports as the headline benefit of broadening trade with China, the real advantage for U.S. companies is probably enhanced rights of investment and ownership there........Most companies try to crack the difficult China market by setting up local operations, often using those plants as export production bases as well.  
   Here is what the Wall Street Journal had to say the day after PNTR passed the House in an article entitled, ``House Vote Primes U.S. Firms to Boost Investments in China'':  
   While the debate in Washington focused mainly on the probable lift for U.S. exports to China, many U.S. multinationals have something different in mind. ``This deal is about investment, not exports,'' says Joseph Quinlan, an economist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co....... 
   In the tense weeks leading up to last night's vote, business lobbyists emphasized the beneficial effect the agreement would have on U.S. exports to China. They played down its likely impact on investment, leery of sounding supportive of labor union arguments that the deal would prompt companies to move U.S. production to China. But many businessmen concede that investment in China is the prize.......  
   Then finally, after the House vote, the U.S. Business and Industrial Council surveyed the web sites of dozens of U.S. multinationals who have been lobbying for PNTR, and they reached similar conclusions:  
   In contrast to the focus in their congressional lobbying and their advertisements, American multinationals say almost nothing about exports when they describe their China business on their web sites. There, the overwhelming emphasis is on supplying the China market--and often other markets, like the U.S. market--from factories they build or acquire or work with in China.......  
   Mr. President, this should come as no surprise to colleagues. According to the Economic Policy Institute, U.S. investment in Chinese manufacturing--I am talking about before this vote--shot up from $123 million in 1988 to $4 billion in 1998. 
   The number of U.S. affiliates manufacturing in China rose from 64 in 1989 to 350 in 1997, and the value of their sales rose from $121 million in 1989 to $8 billion in 1997. That is before we pass normal trade relations with China. U.S. agribusiness conglomerates that have been promoting U.S. exports to China as much as anyone are also investing in production facilities there in China. As the Wall Street Journal noted the day after the House vote:  
   Even agriculture companies are getting in on the act. Poultry giant Purdue Farms, Inc. is ratcheting up its investment in China with a joint venture for a processing plant and hatchery near Shanghai.  
   Purdue isn't the only one. Cargill operates a fertilizer blending plant and a malt plant and two feed mills in different areas of China and boasted in a press release last year that it is a ``major exporter of Chinese corn and steel.'' 
   I urge farmers in Minnesota to listen to that. Cargill says: We set up operations in China; we are a major exporter of corn. Steel workers in the Iron Range, listen to that. They don't have to worry about environmental rules and regulations. They don't have to worry about fair labor standards. They don't have to worry about human rights standards that the Chinese Government will impose. They can produce corn well below the cost of production of corn growers in Minnesota, and they themselves brag about the fact that they are a major exporter of Chinese corn. 
   Cargill, Archer-Daniels-Midland, and ConAgra, which have operated in China for years, lobbied hard for a provision in the China trade deal that will let them set up distribution networks that can be used for exports as well as imports. And John Deere has a joint venture with one of China's state-owned companies that sells tractors. 
   If we look at our trade deficit with China, it tells the story. Our trade deficit with China rose 256 percent from 1992 to 1999. Imports from China more than tripled in real terms, while exports grew only 69 percent. Our trade deficit with China jumped $11 billion last year to $68 billion. In 1999, we had a 6-to-1 ratio of imports to exports. 
   We do trade with China. There is a huge trade imbalance. And as U.S. investment in China goes up, that is what is going to happen. As our trade deficit gets worse, China is developing into an export platform for foreign firms that seek the world's cheapest labor and access to the world's largest consumer market--not China but ours. People in China are, by and large, very poor. The market is not China. The market is in this country. The U.S. today absorbs about 40 percent of China's exports, and about 40 percent of China's exports, more than $200 billion in 1998, came from multinational firms operating in China. 
   If this debate is really about investment and not exports, then the question is, Why are so many U.S. corporations so eager to invest in China? The answer that many of these corporations will give is that they want access to China's huge internal market. But as we have seen, most of the production they are investing in is for export to the United States and other foreign markets. There is a good reason for that. This was the same argument made about NAFTA--we want to have this market in Mexico. But the problem is, the wages are so low in these countries, the poverty is so great, we don't have the market. 
   So why are U.S. corporations so interested in relocating 
   production in China? Why are they so interested that we no longer reserve for ourselves the right to annually review normal trade relations with China? The most important reason is they are interested in low cost, and that is a euphemism. What I really mean to say is, they are interested in low wages and the repression of worker rights. That is what is so attractive about investment in China. 
   The year 1994 is the last data we have. I am trying to bring to the floor of the Senate in this debate as much empirical data as I can. Chinese production workers who worked in the factories of the U.S. multinationals earned on average of 83 cents an hour. That is the last year for which the data is available. By way of comparison, the average manufacturing worker today in our country makes $16.87. 
   The State Department human rights report last year confirms the appalling state of labor rights in China. I will quote a few sections.  
   Independent trade unions are illegal......The government has not approved the establishment of any independent unions to date. 
   The government continues its effort to stamp out union activity, including through detention or arrest of labor activists.  
   The State Department then goes on to list a number of labor activists who have been imprisoned because they did nothing more than demand the right to be able to form a union so they could bargain collectively and get better wages. They are in prison, and we pay no attention to that. 
   I cite a recent report by the National Labor Committee which should dispel any doubts whether there are irresponsible U.S. corporations taking advantage of these appalling labor conditions. By the way, there are responsible U.S. corporations as well. However, the shame of it is, without any kind of standards, it is what the irresponsible U.S. corporations get away with. 
   The conclusion of the NLC:  
   Recent in-depth investigations of 16 factories in China producing car-stereos, brakes, shoes, sneakers, clothing, TVs, hats, and bags for some of the largest U.S. companies clearly demonstrate that [these corporations] and their contractors in China continue to systematically violate the most fundamental human and worker rights while paying below subsistence wages. The U.S. companies and their contractors operate with impunity in China, often in collaboration with repressive and corrupt local government authorities.  
   NLC investigators found brand name--Kathie Lee/Wal-Mart--handbags being made in a factory ``where 1,000 workers were held under conditions of indentured servitude, forced to work 12 to 14 hours a day, seven days a week, with only one day off a month, while earning an average of 3 cents an hour.'' 
   I hope my colleagues are not going to vote against an amendment that I am going to bring to the floor that is going to deal with basic human rights and another amendment I will bring to the floor dealing with the problem of religious persecution.  
    Continuing from the NLC report:  
   However, after months of work, 46 percent of the workers surveyed earned nothing at all--  
   They didn't even make 3 cents an hour.  
   in fact, they owed money to the company. The workers were allowed out of the factory for just an hour and a half a day. The workers were fed two dismal meals a day and housed 16 people to one small, crammed dorm room. Many of the workers did not even have enough money to pay for bus fare to leave the factory to look for other work. When the workers protested being forced to work from 7:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. seven days a week, for literally pennies an hour, 800 workers were fired.  
   Do Members not think in this trade agreement we might not want to have some conditions calling on the Chinese Government to live up to basic standards of decency? 
   One factory producing brand name sneakers for the U.S. market hires only females between the ages of 18 and 25--another U.S. company in China.  
   The base wage at the factory is 18 cents an hour, and workers need permission to leave the factory grounds. Factory and dorms--where 20 women share one small dorm room, sleeping on triple-level bunk beds--are locked down at 9:00 p.m. every night. When workers in the polishing section could no longer stand the grueling overtime hours and low pay and went on strike, they were all fired. Factory management then lectured the remaining workers that they would not tolerate unions, strikes, bad behavior, or the raising of grievances.  
   I will have an amendment that will say we should condition automatic normal trade relations with China on their living up to the basic standard that people should be able to form an independent union if that is what they believe they should do without being imprisoned. 
   At a plant making brand name--Nike--clothing for American consumers, young workers worked from 7:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m., 7 days a week. They made 22 cents an hour. Wal-Mart, by the way, is in China. I think they are paying 14 cents an hour. And another factory manufacturing for export to the U.S. market does not hire anyone older than 25; workers are paid 20 cents an hour and work 11- to 12-hour shifts. 
   I have no doubt that some of our companies--I hope many--want to be responsible employers. But when we don't have any standards and we sign onto trade agreements without any standards whatsoever, we create economic incentives that push in the wrong direction, where the companies wanting to do well by workers are at a competitive disadvantage and it becomes a race to the bottom. 
   In our country--I am proud to say as a former college teacher--among young people is the best organizing of justice, idealism, and activism I have seen in many years. But how can you support the anti-sweatshop campaign, denounce the rapid proliferation of sweatshops all over the world, and denounce the resurgence of sweatshops here in the U.S. and then turn around and promote unregulated investment in China without any conditions whatsoever? 
   I simply say that I seriously question, on the basis of some pretty solid empirical evidence, whether this China deal is going to lift living standards overseas to our levels or whether this China deal and some of our other trade policy is going to lower living standards down to theirs. It is not very hard to figure out what this deal is about. It is going to encourage more investment in China under the conditions I have described. 
   I wish to give two case studies. On July 7, the New York Times ran a story about Zebco Corporation, world-famous makers of fishing reel, which moved most of its production to China in June. Most of Zebco's 240 workers will eventually lose their jobs. They said:  
   With most of Zebco's competitors having already set up fishing tackle plants in China, allowing them to undercut Zebco's prices at Wal-Marts everywhere, Zebco began a year ago to explore the possibility of moving its own lines to China. The company found that it could commission Chinese factories to produce and deliver reels to the United States for one-third less than it could make them at home, company officials said. 
   As assembly-line factory jobs go, Zebco offers ordinary pay but solid benefits, including Christmas gifts of stock certificates. Workers returned the loyalty. Turnover was low.  
   This is what it was all about.  
   Then, earlier this year, the company pushed assembly-line workers to raise their output by at least 10 percent a month, and China became a cattle prod.  
   That is in the New York Times piece.  
   Still, the shop floor fell into stunned silence one Monday afternoon when the president of the company read a brief statement as first-shift workers finished their day. Zebco was moving some production to China. Many of those listening would lose their jobs. Zebco reels no longer commanded an ``adequate profit,'' the statement said. 
   Many leading United States companies are like Zebco. They face competitive pressure to save money by producing in China--often exporting back to the United States--rather than making goods here to sell in China.  
   The workers as Zebco are not alone. Warren Davis is a courageous, outspoken United Auto Workers leader. He is their regional director for Ohio and Pennsylvania. In a recent letter, he told me about 90 workers at a plant he represents who are all going to lose their jobs because of the conditions that I have described. He writes:  
   Nestaway Corporation has been under contract with the Rubbermaid Corporation of Wooster, Ohio. It is losing its critical contract because Rubbermaid claims it can no longer afford to buy Nestaway's sink strainers....... 
   The victims are the workers at Nestaway Corporation in Garfield Heights, Ohio. They are mainly single parents with poor prospects for finding any other job that pay a wage comparable to the $9 an hour they had been paid.......  
   Basically, it is the same thing. They can't compete. I continue to quote from him:  
   My question to you is, for whom does the bell toll? Because this is not just about the jobs of Region 2 members of the United Auto Workers. This is about all of American manufacturing. And it is about the debate in the Senate.  
   The stories of workers at Zebco and Nestaway tell a larger story. We have an exploding trade deficit with China, and it is only going to get worse because without any kind of conditions, without any kind of human rights standards, without any kind of fair labor standards, without any kind of minimal standards for human rights, what we are going to see is more and more companies not exporting but investing in China, going to China, paying low wages. This becomes the export platform, and then the products are exported back to our country. According to the EPI, our exploding trade deficit with China cost over 683,000 jobs between 1992 and 1999. This trade deal with China will cost even more--over 870,000 jobs, just looking into the immediate future. 
   Well, let me now make two final points in my opening statement. It is commonly argued that everybody benefits, that it is exports, and I have tried to take that on. We get the arguments of the trade agreement, and I have tried to take that on. It is argued that, in fact, this is a policy that will help people in China. I have tried to take that argument on. Let me simply talk about the inequality in our country. Even free trade economists have now concluded that existing trade policy is the single largest cause of growing inequality since 1979. We have a booming economy, but we have the widest gap between the rich and the poor of any industrialized nation in the world. Inequality, both within countries and between countries, has dramatically increased. 
   When we went through the debate on NAFTA, the argument was there will be winners and losers, but we will be better off as a country, and we certainly will be there to compensate the losers; we will have job training and education programs and all of the rest. But do you know what? That was fine sentiment expressed on the floor of the Senate, but after NAFTA was passed and we lost hundreds of thousands of jobs, support for the training and assistance suddenly dried up. All of the Senators and all of the Representatives who I hear say, ``Yes, there will be losers and we are certainly going to have to do better''--I would like to hear those Senators and Representatives talk about health security for people in this country, affordable child care, good education for their children, increasing the minimum wage. But quite often you find just the opposite. 
   I wish to talk about an amendment I am going to bring to the floor of the Senate, which I think is terribly important. Part of what is going on, unfortunately, with our trade policy--and given the size of China, this will sharply widen the inequality. This will exacerbate this, I think, most serious question of all. 
   The message is, if you organize, we are gone; we will go to these other countries. The message is that if you want to work for more than 3 cents an hour, you don't get our investment. 
   But if this is all about workers, and if this is all about coming through for working people in our country--making sure that the jobs we have in our country are good jobs, and there are decent health care benefits for people, and they can support their families--I think we will have to look at the very strong correlation between unionization and good jobs and good working benefits--and that is a well established correlation--and, therefore, the need to give people the right to organize. 
   Right now in the country during an organizing drive, in 91 percent of the cases employers require employees to listen to the companies but deny the employees any opportunity to listen to both sides. I am going to introduce a right-to-organize amendment. That should no longer be the case. Employees should be allowed to hear from both sides. 
   In 31 percent of all the organizing campaigns, employers illegally fire union sympathizers with virtual impunity. Ten thousand workers are fired illegally every year. It is profitable to do so. In this amendment, I say if a company breaks the law and illegally fires that worker, that company is going to be faced with stiff financial penalties. 
   In one-third of the cases, even after the employees say they want to join a union so they can make better wages, the companies refuse to negotiate. This amendment will call, therefore, for mediation to be followed by binding arbitration. 
   I hope my colleagues will support this right-to-organize amendment. 
   I think the way our country is going is that people and families are more concerned about the right to be able to organize and bargain collectively, earn a decent living, and support their families. 
   I say especially to the Democrats that you ought to support this amendment. You ought to support this amendment because this is all about the basic right of people to be able to organize and to do better for themselves and their families. This is all about being on the side of working people. Do I not hear that the Democratic Party is on the side of working people? I have an amendment that will give Democrats, and I hope Republicans, an opportunity to be on the side of working people. 
   In conclusion, we have a choice. I think the choice is really clear. We are in a global economy. We are in an international economy. The question is, Are there going to be any new rules? 
   We live in a democracy. My father taught me more than anything else to love my country, and I love my country because we live in a democracy. I get to speak on the floor of the Senate. Citizens get to speak up. We have a voice. 
   On the one hand, we have the current model of a business trade policy designed to serve mainly the interests of multinational corporations, Wall Street financial institutions, and global business conglomerates. This is the model of globalization that has generated such outrage and certainly skepticism on the part of most ordinary citizens in the country. Good for them. 
   I think there is a 2-to-1 margin--as I remember the recent polling data--of people who say they don't believe these trading agreements are going to lead to good job prospects 
   but are going to more likely take away good jobs for Americans. 
   Just think about it for a moment. We passed not too long ago the CBI initiative. That is all about, as my colleague said, helping poor working people in the Caribbean countries. How do you help poor working people in the Caribbean countries where they don't even have the right to work? They can't join a union. The Caribbean countries with the fastest growing exports have experienced--are you ready for this?--the steepest decline in wages. 
   So often I hear from my colleagues: Well, Paul, we know you support working people but do not seem to be supporting the poor in these developing nations. I say to my colleagues that every time I go to a trade conference, I look for the poor. I never see the poor at these trade conferences. I see the elites from these countries. I don't see the poor represented. 
   In any case, with the Caribbean countries, let me cite one very interesting correlation. Those countries with the fastest growing exports and that have the lowest wages have seen the steepest decline in wages. 
   The question is, Who benefits from expanding trade benefits without any enforceable labor standards? Who benefits from trade and investment policies that discourage rather than encourage the right to organize? Not American workers; not workers in the other countries; not the poor in other countries. This is not win-win; this is lose-lose. 
   I will not cite a lot of statistics about the global economy, but for a moment I want to cite a few to point out to colleagues that many foreign countries have not fared so well under this ``Washington consensus trade and investment policy'' of recent decades. 
   More than 80 countries have per capita income lower than they did in 1970, lower in 1999 than in 1978 by 200 million poor people living in abject poverty. 
   Only 33 countries have achieved and sustained 3-percent growth between 1980 and 1996, and in 59 countries the per capita GNP actually declined. 
   The number of poor continues to grow throughout the world. 
   There are 100 million people in industrialized countries living below the poverty line, and 35 million of them are unemployed. 
   There are 1.3 billion people in the developing world earning less than $1 per day and who have no access to clean water for themselves or their children. 
   You are coming out here on the floor of the Senate and trying to argue that trade policy has been a great benefit for the poor in the world. I don't think the empirical data support that. 
   Let me conclude where I started. 
   I am an internationalist. I hear all this discussion about how this debate and this vote is all about whether or not you believe we live and work in a global economy. I take seriously those words that we live and work in a global economy. It certainly is true. But may I point out to my colleagues the implications of this point of view. 
   If we live in a global economy and if we are truly concerned about human rights, then we can no longer concern ourselves only with human rights at home. 
   If we live in a global economy and we truly care about religious freedom, then we can no longer concern ourselves only with religious freedom at home. 
   If we live in a global economy and work in a global economy and we care about the rights of workers to organize and bargain collectively and earn a better standard of living for themselves and their children, then we can no longer concern ourselves with labor rates only at home. 
   If we truly care about the environment and we live in a global economy, then we can no longer concern ourselves with environmental protection only at home. 
   Raising living standards is not only the right thing to do, it is necessary if we are to maintain our own living standard. We need to ensure that prosperity is shared more broadly so that the world economy is stabilized and that healthy and sustainable products are created for our exporters. When people make 3 cents an hour and are poor, they cannot buy what we produce in our country. 
   I am proud to associate myself with those who have been engaged in human rights work. I think I care more about human rights issues than almost any other set of issues in my family background. They have understood a basic truth; it is this: That Americans can never be indifferent to the circumstances of exploited and abused people in the far reaches of the globe. When the most basic human rights and freedoms of others are infringed upon or endangered, we are diminished by our failure to speak out for human rights. 
   When we embrace the cause of human rights, we reaffirm one of the greatest traditions of American democracy, but we are not embracing the cause of human rights with this trade bill. 
   There is another truth, and it is reaching a larger and larger public. The well-being of our families, the well-being of ordinary wage earners in the United States of America, depends to a considerable degree on the welfare of people who we have never met, people who live halfway across the planet. Our fates are intertwined.  
   Some of my colleagues say the global markets will take care of themselves; they cannot be tamed; there is nothing we should do; this is laissez faire economics at its best. 
   I point my colleagues to the lessons of our own economic history. As we debate this piece of legislation on the floor of the Senate--and I will have an amendment that will deal with religious freedom, an amendment that deals with human rights; I will have an amendment that deals with exports from China from forced prison labor; I will have an amendment that deals with a right to organize in China; and I will have an amendment that deals with the right to organize in our own country--let Members for a moment think about this debate in an historic context. I heard my colleague, Senator BAUCUS, for whom I have great respect, say this is a very important debate. Senator MOYNIHAN, who will retire--and the Senate and our country will miss him--believes this is one of the most important votes we will cast. I agree. I think this is one of the most important debates that has taken place in the Senate. 
   I deal with a sense of history. One-hundred years ago, our country moved from an economy of local economic units to an industrialized economy. It was a wrenching economic 
   transformation, a major seismic change in our economy. We were moving toward a national, industrialized economy 100 years ago, at the beginning of the last century. 
   As that happened, there was a coalition--some of them were evangelical, some were populist, some were farmers, some were women, some were working people--that made a set of demands. The farmers said: We want antitrust action because these big conglomerates are pushing us off the land or they were exploiting the consumers. They want a 40-hour workweek. We want the right to organize. We want some protections against exploiting children, child labor. Women said: We want the right to vote. We want direct election of the U.S. Senators. They made those demands, and nobody thought they had a chance. 
   The Pinkertons killed anyone trying to organize a union. All too often that happened. The media was hostile to this set of demands, by and large. Journalists followed this debate. I am not bashing all journalists, but in general the media was not supportive. And believe it or not, money probably dominated politics even more than it does today. 
   However, those women and men felt, as citizens of a democracy, they had the right to demand for themselves and their families all they thought was right and all they had the courage to demand. They didn't win everything, but a lot of their demands became the law of the land and their collective efforts made our country better. Their efforts amounted to an effort to civilize a new national economy. 
   So it is today, 100 years later. These amendments I will bring to the floor of the Senate reflect an effort on the part of people in the United States of America and others throughout the world to say, yes, we live in a new global economy, but just as 100 years ago men and women organized and had the courage to make that new national economy work for them, we make a set of demands. We bring a set of issues before the Senate. We call for votes on amendments which basically say that we need to make sure that this new global economy works for working people, works for family farmers, works for the environment, works for human rights. 
   Mr. President, we want to make sure we can civilize this new global economy so that it works for most of the people. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the next two Democratic speakers be Senator DORGAN and Senator TORRICELLI, and that Senator TORRICELLI's statement be considered a morning business statement, after Senator GORTON speaks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think Senator BRYAN is going to speak so I will take only 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I may take more time later on tonight, but since it is not clear exactly how the schedule is going to proceed, let me thank Senator LOTT for his commitment to a good, thorough, substantive debate on whether or not we should or should not enter into a review of normal trade relations with China. 
   I could speak for many hours about this, but I will have a number of amendments. One of them will reflect the work of a very important religious group, the U.S. Commission on Religious Rights and Religious Freedom, which we will talk about, criteria that should be met, and focus on the right of people in China to practice their religion without persecution. Another will be a human rights amendment. Another will deal with prison labor conditions in China. Another will deal with the right of people to form unions in China. Finally, there will be a very important amendment for people to organize in our own country. 
   Part of what is going on here is the concern within this sort of broad international framework that quite often the message for people in this country is, if you organize, we are gone. We will go to China or another country and pay 12 cents an hour or 3 cents an hour. The message to people in these countries is, if you should dare to form a union, then you don't get the investment. I want to focus on the right to organize and labor law reform in our own country. 
   I am an internationalist. We are in an international economy. I do not want to see an embargo with China. We will trade with China. I do not want to have a cold war with China. I want to see better relations. I think the real question is what the terms of the trade will be, who will decide, who will benefit, and who will be asked to sacrifice. I hope this new global economy will be an economy that works, not only for large multinationals but for human rights, for religious rights, for the right of people to organize, for the environment, and for our wage earners. My amendments will be within that framework. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I rise today to address the serious and widespread problem of international trafficking in persons, particularly women and children, for the purposes of sexual exploitation and forced labor, and to seek your continued support for legislation aimed at curbing this horrific crime. 
   Trafficking in persons becomes more insidious and widespread everyday. For example, every year approximately one million women and children are forced into the sex trade against their will. A recent CIA analysis of the international trafficking of women into the United States reports that as many as 50,000 women and children each year are brought into the United States and forced to work as prostitutes, forced laborers and servants. Others credibly estimate that the number is probably much higher. 
   Those whose lives have been disrupted by civil wars or fundamental changes in political geography, such as the disintegration of the Soviet Union or the violence in the Balkans, have fallen prey to traffickers. Seeking financial security, many innocent persons are lured by traffickers' false promises of a better life and lucrative jobs abroad. However, upon arrival in destination countries, these victims are often stripped of their passports and held against their will, some in slave-like conditions. Rape, intimidation and violence are commonly employed by traffickers to control their victims and to prevent them from seeking help. 
   Trafficking rings are often run by criminals operating through nominally reputable agencies. In some cases overseas, police and immigration officials of other nations participate in or benefit from trafficking. In other cases, lack of awareness or complacency among government officials, such as border patrol and consular officers, contributes to the problem. Furthermore, traffickers are rarely punished as official policies often inhibit victims from testifying against their traffickers, making trafficking a highly profitable, low-risk business venture for some. 
   In April my esteemed colleague from Kansas and I introduced separate bills to combat trafficking in persons. I introduced S. 2414, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, and he introduced S. 2449, the International Trafficking Act of 2000. But, although we earlier introduced these separate bills, we would like to relay to you the truly bipartisan effort this has been. This effort is reflected in the bill we passed today. 
   The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 is a comprehensive bill that aims to prevent trafficking in persons, provide protection and assistance to those who have been trafficked, and strengthen prosecution and punishment of those responsible for trafficking. It is designed to help federal law enforcement officials expand anti-trafficking efforts here and abroad; to expand domestic anti-trafficking and victim assistance efforts; and to assist non-governmental organizations, governments and others worldwide who are providing critical assistance to victims of trafficking. 
   The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 addresses the underlying problems which fuel the trafficking industry by promoting public anti-trafficking awareness campaigns and initiatives to enhance economic opportunity, such as micro-credit lending programs and skills training, for those most susceptible to trafficking. It also increases protections and services for trafficking victims by establishing programs designed to assist in the safe reintegration of victims into their community, and ensure that such programs address both the physical and mental health needs of trafficking victims. Further, the bills seek to stop the practice of immediately deporting victims back to potentially dangerous situations by providing them interim immigration relief and the time necessary to bring charges against those responsible for their condition. It also toughens current federal trafficking penalties, criminalizing all forms of trafficking in persons and establishing punishment commensurate with the heinous nature of this crime. 
   This bill requires expanded reporting on trafficking, including a separate list of countries which are not meeting minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. It authorizes the President to suspend assistance to the worst violators on the list of countries which do not meet these minimum standards. This discretionary approach provides the flexibility needed to combat the complex, multi-faceted, and often multi-jurisdictional nature of this crime, while maintaining the prospect of tough enforcement against governments who persistently ignore, or whose officials are even complicit in, trafficking within their own borders. It allows Congress to monitor closely the progress of countries in their fight against trafficking and gives the Administration flexibility to couple its diplomatic efforts to combat trafficking with targeted action that can be tailored to the individual country involved. 
   Since we began working on this issue, Senator BROWNBACK and I have met with trafficking victims, after-care providers, and human rights advocates from around the world who have reminded us again and again of the horrible, widespread and growing nature of this human rights abuse. Today this Chamber has taken an important first step toward the elimination of trafficking in persons. We are thankful for your support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to participate in the debate on the motion to proceed. But I have been doing work with my colleague, Senator BROWNBACK. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to follow Senator BROWNBACK. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Senate tonight passed the Trafficking in Victims Protection Act of 2000. Similar legislation passed the House. The conference committee is committed to this legislation. I don't think there is any question but that the Congress is going to pass this bill. This was a huge step forward. 
   I thank Senator BROWNBACK who for 3 1/2 years, at least, has been working on this. It started with my wife Sheila, who brought this to my attention. I remember meeting with women from Ukraine--which is where my father was born--describing what had happened to them. 
   Senator BROWNBACK is absolutely right. This is one of the brutal aspects of this new global economy. It supplements drug trafficking, except quite often it is more profitable, believe it or not, because the women--girls--are recycled over and over again. We are talking about close to 1 million women and girls, the trafficking of these women and girls for purposes of forced prostitution or forced labor. 
   We are talking about the trafficking of some 50,000 women, girls, to our country. Two miles away, in Bethesda, there was a massage parlor with a group of girls from Ukraine. The country is in economic disarray. They thought this was an opportunity. They came to our country. Their passports were taken away. They were isolated. Senator BROWNBACK talked about the isolation. They were beaten up. They were raped. They were forced into prostitution. In our country, in the year 2000, this goes on in the world, and in the United States of America. 
   This legislation would never pass without the leadership of 
   Senator BROWNBACK and the leadership of Sharon Payt. I thank Wes Carrington, who is on the floor with me, and Jill Hickson, two fellows who have been gifts from Heaven, and Charlotte Moore, who has been working on this, and my wife Sheila. 
   I could talk for hours about this, but I will emphasize a couple of key aspects. First, prevention, a focus on doing the public information work in these countries and work with the consulates so these girls have some understanding of what their rights are, so they are warned about the dangers of this when the recruiters are out there to try to prevent this from happening in the first place; and an emphasis on how you can get economic development from microenterprise to opportunities for women. Part of the problem is the way in which women are so devalued in too many nations. Also, the grinding poverty. 
   Second, protection. The bitter, bitter, bitter irony, colleagues, is that quite often the victims are the ones who are punished, and these mobsters and criminals who are involved in the trafficking of these women and girls with this blatant exploitation get away with literally murder. 
   One of the problems is that these girls and women can't step forward because then they will be deported. So we have an extension of temporary visas for up to 3 years for the women, girls, and a final decision is made as to whether or not they can stay in the country. 
   In addition, there is some help for them. We have in Minnesota the Center for the Treatment of Torture Victims. It is a holy place. It is a spiritual place. Most of these women and men come from Africa. They have been through a living hell. We read about child soldiers. We read about what is happening. It takes a long time for people to be able to rebuild their lives when they have been through this, when they have been tortured. 
   There are 120 governments today in the world that are engaged in this systematic use of torture today; the same thing for these women and girls. Imagine what it is like for them. There is help for them. 
   Finally, prosecution, and taking this seriously, treating it as a crime so, for example, if you are trafficking a young girl under the age of 14 and forcing her into prostitution, you face a life sentence in prison. 
   And finally, not automatic sanctions but a listing of those governments which are involved in the trafficking, which have turned their gaze away and refused to do anything about it. 
   With it being up to a President, be he Democrat or Republican or she a Democrat or Republican, in the future, as to whether or not there is an action to be taken. 
   It is a good piece of legislation. I think Senator BROWNBACK is right. I think it is the human rights legislation to pass the Congress. It will pass. Mr. Koh, Assistant Secretary of Human Rights at the State Department, has been great. The administration has been supportive. We have had a lot of support from Democrats and Republicans here, and I really feel good about it. 
   I said to Senator BROWNBACK, I think Senator BENNETT can appreciate this because I think he is like this--the first part I don't want to say is his view--but there are some days where I just cannot decide whether or not I have really been able to help anybody. You try, but you just sometimes get so frustrated. I think this piece of legislation we passed will help a lot of people. I really do, I say to Senator BROWNBACK. I think it is a good model for other governments, other countries. I am not being grandiose here. I think we can get this out to a lot of fellow legislators in other nations and other NGOs. I know there is a lot of interest. 
   I rise to speak about this bill, to tell my colleague from Kansas, Senator BROWNBACK, I appreciated working with him, and to say to the Senate--all the Senators; after all, this passed by unanimous consent--thank you, thank you for your support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if it is OK with Senator BROWNBACK, I want to briefly respond to my colleague from Montana. I will do it under 10 minutes, to anticipate the debate we are going to have on China. 
   I think some of this debate has already become confused. My father was born in Odessa, Ukraine, then moved to Russia in the Far East Siberia. His father was a hatter trying to stay ahead of the czarist troops--Jewish. He then moved to Harbin, then to Peking, then came over to the United States of America when he was 17, in 1914, 3 years before the revolution. He then was going to go back, because first it was the Social Democrats but then the Bolsheviks, the Communists, took over, and his family told him not to come back. I believe his father lost all of his family to Stalin. I think they  were all murdered, because all the letters stopped. 
   My father is no longer alive. He spoke 10 languages fluently and was really--you would have liked him, Mr. President. 
   My father taught me that we should value human rights. Our country is a leader in this area. When we turn our gaze away from the persecution of people and the violation of human rights of people in the world, we diminish ourselves. 
   This debate we are going to have after Labor Day is not about whether or not we should have trade with China. We have trade with China. We have a tremendous amount of trade. In fact, we have a huge trade deficit, I think to the tune of about $70 billion. 
   It is not about whether we should have an embargo of China like an embargo of Cuba. I don't think the embargo of Cuba 
   makes much sense, and certainly no one I know is recommending an embargo of China. 
   It is not about whether or not we want to isolate China. China is not going to be isolated. China is very much a part of the international economy. 
   The debate is about whether or not we maintain for ourselves the right to annually review trade relations with China so we at least have some small amount of leverage when it comes to human rights. 
   According to the State Department report last year on human rights in China:  
   The Government's poor human rights record deteriorated markedly throughout the year, as the Government intensified efforts to suppress dissent, particularly organized dissent. Abuses includes instances of extrajudicial killings, torture, mistreatment of prisoners, and denial of due process.  
   The Commission on Religious Freedom chaired by David Saperstein recommended that we not automatically grant normal trade relations with China because of the religious persecution in China and laid out a series of criteria that should be met, and that will be the first amendment I will introduce. 
   Yes, to us giving China most favored nation status. But not until they at least meet basic, simple, elementary criteria so the people in China have the right to practice their religion. Are we going to turn our gaze away from that? 
   According to Amnesty International, ``throughout China mass summary executions continue to be carried out. At least 6,000 death sentences and 3,500 executions were officially recorded last year.'' 
   The real figures are believed to be much higher. 
   In the debate, I will talk about Wei Jingsheng and Harry Wu--people, in addition to these statistics. But let me be clear to my colleagues. After all the discussion about all the economic relations having led to opening up society and it has all changed, the human rights record has deteriorated. There is not one Senator who can come to the floor and make the argument that, because of trade relations--I understand investment opportunities making a lot of money--the human rights record has improved in China, or that the situation in Tibet has improved, or that people now can practice their religion. It is not true. Don't we want to maintain just a little bit of leverage and just say we have the right to annually review our trade relations with China? 
   One other point. I think what you are going to see is not more exports to China. I am going to hold every single Senator and I am going to hold the administration accountable as well. 
   The President came to my State of Minnesota. He said we were going to have all these exports in agriculture, and it was going to help out family farmers who were struggling to survive. I don't know if that is going to be the case. There are 700 million farmers in China. I do know this. What is more likely to happen is there will be more exports in China and multinational corporations will go to China and China will become even more of a low-wage export platform or, for that matter, you will have large grain companies producing corn in China well below the cost of production for family farmers in our own country. 
   Wal-Marts pay 14 cents an hour. Other U.S. companies pay 5 cents and 6 cents an hour. If you should try to organize a union in China, you would wind up in prison. 
   So I will have three other amendments, and I will yield the floor on this. I will have an amendment that deals with forced prison labor conditions in China and says: Enough of this, if we are going to have normal trade relations. I will have another amendment that says the people in China should have the right to form independent unions and not wind up in prison. And I will have a final amendment that will basically say that in our State, our workers should have the right to organize; there should be labor law reform; no longer should it just be the company that gets to talk to employees during an organizing drive; no longer should companies be able to illegally fire workers, have it be profitable, and not have to pay stiff back penalties, back fines. 
   We are forever being told now that we live in a global economy. And that is true. But the implications of that statement are seldom recognized. To me that means, if we truly care about human rights, we can no longer just be concerned about human rights at home. If we live in a global economy and we truly care about religious freedom, then we can no longer just be concerned about religious freedom at home. If we are in a global economy and we truly care about the rights of organizers to organize and be able to make a decent living so they can take care of their families, then we have to be concerned not just about the rights of organizers in our country but organizers in the world. And if we truly care about the environment, then we can no longer concern ourselves with just environmental protections at home, but environmental protections in other countries as well. 
   Do you know that a large majority of the Senate is all for this--automatically extending normal trade relations with China or most favored nation trade status? Do you know what the polls show? The polls show Americans oppose eliminating any review of China's human rights record by 65 to 18 percent; 67 percent oppose China's admission to the WTO, although that is not what this debate will be about; and 83 percent of the people in our country support inclusion of strong environmental and labor standards in future trade agreements. 
   My colleague--1 minute left--my colleague from Montana, whom I enjoy, said: I am going to call on all Senators to vote against all amendments. 
   I am going to tell Senators a lot of these amendments are substantive and they are serious. Look at what we had happen on several of these tax bills, the majority leader came out after we had passed amendments and then introduced an amendment that wiped out all those amendments. 
   I am going to remind Senators of that precedent. I am going to remind Senators that you cannot go back home and explain with much credibility to the people you represent that you would not vote for the people in China to have the right to practice their religion; you would not vote for basic support for human rights; you would not vote for people to organize a union and not wind up in prison; you would not vote for labor law reform because you said: Oh, well, you see, we had to go into conference committee and we had to keep it clean and I could not vote for that. 
   A, that is not true; B, it is the ultimate Washington insider argument. One has to vote for what one thinks is right. One has to vote for the substance of each one of these amendments. That is the challenge I present to my colleagues. I look forward to this debate. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, colleagues, I rise today to draw attention to a recent decision by the Administration to reinitiate military ties with the government of Indonesia. Despite congressional concerns, the U.S. navy, marines, and coast guard last week began a 10-day joint military exercise known as CARAT, Cooperation Afloat Readiness and Training, with their Indonesian military counterparts. Although the Administration sees this mission as a routine good-will mission, it is in fact the first time U.S. and Indonesian armed forces have worked together since the United States cut military ties with Indonesia last year. Colleagues, in case you don't recall, we cut those military ties after East Timor was devastated by Indonesian troops. We cut those ties because Indonesian soldiers are reported to have been active participants in a coordinated, massive campaign of murder, rape, and forced displacement in East Timor. 
   The administration's decision to go forth with a CARAT exercise again this summer is simply indefensible. Given the human rights violations committed by the Indonesian military in East Timor and the lack of accountability for them, and the Indonesian military's continued ties to militias in West Timor, one must ask not only the question why we are so eager to re-engage with this military at all, but why we feel compelled to do so now. Now is not the time to conduct joint exercises with the Indonesian military; now is the time to demand its accountability. To do otherwise is to tacitly condone its conduct. 
   Conditions continue to deteriorate in East Timorese refugee camps in West Timor and throughout the Indonesian archipelago. Up to 125,000 East Timorese still languish in militia-controlled refugee camps in West Timor almost one year after the people of East Timor voted overwhelmingly for independence from Indonesia. Many of the refugees wish to return home but are afraid to do so. Today refugee camps remain highly militarized, with East Timorese members of the Indonesian military living among civilian refugees. And despite promises by the Indonesian government to disarm and disband militias, there are credible reports of Indonesian military support for militia groups. These same militias have easy access to modern weapons. Earlier this month the U.N. High Commissioner on Refugees had to suspend refugee registration indefinitely due to violent militia assaults on its staff, volunteers and refugees, and though UNHCR has continued its work in other areas, UNHCR and other aid workers continue work under extremely dangerous conditions. 
   There has also been an upsurge in militia border incursions into East Timor with attacks on U.N. Peacekeepers and civilians. I regret to say that earlier this week a peacekeeper from New Zealand was shot and killed. Militia leaders, the Indonesian military, and the West Timorese press continue to sponsor a mass disinformation campaign alleging horrific conditions in East Timor and abuse by international forces. Further, Indonesia has yet to arrest a single militia leader or member of its military accused of human rights violations in East Timor. Instead of reinitiating joint military exercises and allowing the sale of certain  spare 
   military parts, the Administration should increase its pressure on the government of Indonesia to fulfill past promises to disarm and disband militias in West Timor, and insure today that the Indonesian military is not linked to such militias. Militia leaders must be removed from refugee camps and those accused of human rights violations must be held accountable. Furthermore, Indonesia must make real its pledge to provide international and local relief workers safe and full access to all refugees. 
   There is currently considerable unrest throughout the Indonesian archipelago. Reports abound about the direct involvement of the Indonesian military in much of the violence. In the past nineteen months thousands of people in Maluku, also known as the Moluccan Islands, have been killed in fighting between Christians and Muslims. It is known that members of the Indonesian military supported and, in some cases, caused the violence. On July 18, Indonesia's Minister of Defense Juwono Sudarsono admitted that there were ``some or even many'' army members who have become a ``major cause of clashes'' in Ambon. Credible human rights organizations also report an escalation of violence in West Papua with the Indonesian military actively supporting East Timor-style militias there. Moreover, the Indonesian military has repeatedly broken a cease-fire in the province of Aceh. 
   Conditions in Indonesia are deteriorating. On Sunday U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan told Indonesia's President Wahid that U.N. peacekeepers may be needed for the archipelago but President Wahid said his government could end the conflict by itself. He did note, however, that Indonesia's overstretched military might need logistical aid from friendly countries such as the United States. I worry that the decision the Administration has made to re-initiate military ties with Indonesia is sending the wrong signal to President Wahid. It should be made very clear to President Wahid that the U.S. will not provide assistance to Indonesia to do what it did before in East Timor. 
   Although I believe we should support Indonesia, we must recognize that the type of support we provide will directly influence the shape Indonesia takes in the future. The Administration has not only proceeded with the CARAT exercise despite congressional concerns but is moving ahead with ``Phase I'' of a three phase program of re-engagement with the Indonesian military. This could include the sale of certain spare military parts to Indonesia. Given the deteriorating conditions in Indonesia and the human rights record of Indonesian soldiers, do we really want to do this? 
   I rise today to urge my colleagues to voice their opposition to the CARAT exercise and to oppose any proposal for strengthening military ties with Indonesia in the near future. Again, I would like to make very clear that I believe the U.S. should support Indonesia but we must recognize that the type of support we provide now will directly influence the shape Indonesia takes in the future. Resuming a military relationship now not only threatens any future reforms in Indonesia but jeopardizes efforts already made to subjugate the Indonesian military to civilian authority. U.S. policy towards Indonesia should support democratic reform and demand accountability for those responsible for alleged human rights violations in East Timor and elsewhere. I fail to see how the CARAT exercise or lifting the embargo on military sales to Indonesia does either. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it has been more than a year since the Columbine tragedy, but still this Republican Congress refuses to act on sensible gun legislation. 
   Since Columbine, thousands of Americans have been killed by gunfire. Until we act, Democrats in the Senate will read some of the names of those who lost their lives to gun violence in the past year, and we will continue to do so every day that the Senate is in session. 
   In the name of those who died, we will continue this fight. Following are the names of some of the people who were killed by gunfire one year ago today. 
   July 27: Jesus Campos, 19, Chicago, IL; Steven Conley, 29, Memphis, TN; Stephen Daniels, Jr., 24, Miami-Dade County, FL; Willie G. Dulaney, 68, Memphis, TN; George Julian, 83, Hollywood, FL; Javier Marrero, 18, Chicago, IL; Eric McAlister, 33, Dallas, TX; Charles Oliver, 50, Atlanta, GA; Deondra Stokes, 21, Detroit, MI; Barreto P. Williams, 26, Chicago, IL; Unidentified male, 25, Newark, NJ. 
   We cannot sit back and allow such senseless gun violence to continue. The deaths of these people are a reminder to all of us that we need to enact sensible gun legislation now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that is intended to begin a long overdue discussion regarding the future of an industry, and a way of life that is basic not only to our agricultural economy but to the soul of America. I am talking about family dairy farming. To maintain this country's family dairy industry, we in the Senate need to act quickly before the end of this session, to effect a change in Federal dairy policy that will make a difference, a difference to dairy farmers who are struggling because they receive a price that is less than what it cost them to produce the product. 
   It is clear dairy farmers in this country are facing devastating times. The current dairy policies have brought chaos to family dairy farmers. Last year, the Class III milk price decreased from $16.26 cwt. in September to $9.63 cwt in December, and prices have still not recovered. Over the last ten months we have seen a drop of over forty percent in milk prices. How can our dairy farmers survive with such volatility in the market place? Dairy farmers need to have a stable and equitable market price, and that simply does not exist under our current dairy policy. 
   That is why I am pleased to introduce this legislation to set the milk support price at $12.50 per hundredweight. As my colleagues know, the dairy support price sets a floor on the price received by all producers, regardless of region, that should be set at a level sufficient to curb market volatility. However, the current support level of $9.90 cwt. is too low to act as a stabilizer for the market. The five year average for milk is $12.78 cwt, therefore this legislation to set the support price at $12.50 would protect against the huge drops producers have experienced in the past few years. 
   I want to make clear that this legislation is not intended to be the complete solution to the problems with our national dairy policy, or lack thereof. I firmly believe that we need to develop a supply management mechanism to complement an increase in the price support, however, for too long this Congress has ignored the economic crisis our nation's dairy farmers are facing. 
   Mr. President, what we do here in Washington has to be rooted in the lives of the people we represent. It has to be based upon the reality of lives of people in our communities, including people in rural communities. I think it is vitally important to understand that there is a crisis in capital letters with dairy farmers that is evident when you go out and talk with people, talk to farmers, hardworking dairy farmers, good managers, sitting down in their kitchens adding up the figures trying to cash flow. There is simply no way  they can do it. Talk to dairy farmers who try to convince their sons and daughters that there is no more honorable profession to go into than to be a farmer, to be a dairy farmer, to produce nutritious milk for people at affordable prices, and yet people do not get a decent price for their work. 
   In my State, fifty in the country in milk production, we have 8,000 dairy farmers with an average herd size of 59 cows. It is a family dairy industry. It is not a factory farm industry, and we want to 
   keep it a family industry. The milk production from Minnesota farms generates more than $1.2 billion for our states' farmers each year, and a recent University of Minnesota study determined that dairy production in Minnesota creates an additional $1.2 billion in economic activity for related industry. Our dairy industry is efficient and it is innovative, and it produces a plentiful supply of pure wholesome milk at extremely reasonable prices, but it is also an industry in crisis. It is a crisis not only for dairy farmers themselves, but for rural communities throughout the country because the health and vitality of our rural communities is not going to be based upon the size of the herds but the number of dairy farmers who live in those communities, who buy in those communities, who go to churches in those communities, who support the school systems and businesses in those communities. 
   I am afraid, as I speak here on the floor of the Senate, that agriculture in our country is about to go through a transition where all of agriculture will be dominated by giant conglomerates. The result will be the total lack of a competitive sector, family farm sector, of agriculture. That will be a transition that we'll deeply regret and that is why we have to act now. 
   Mr. President, I hope we can respond appropriately to the pleas that are coming from any State and other agricultural States all around the country. Due to a drastic reduction in the prices paid to farmers for their milk during the past year, thousands of farmers are going out of business. Since 1990 the number of dairy farmers in Minnesota has been nearly cut in half. This year alone we have already lost almost 300 dairy farms. We will lose more if we do not change the course of policy. Federal dairy policy has allowed milk production and prices to fluctuate widely. This fluctuation has caused a tremendous amount of instability for producers and consumers but it has been especially bad for farmers. While retail prices for dairy farmers have gone down and while the price for farmers has been dramatically cut by 40 percent, we have seen no such decrease at the grocery store. 
   The solution is a Federal policy that provides a decent living to hardworking family farmers producing needed milk. The average cost of production for milk in the United States is around $13 per hundredweight and yet farmers in my State are receiving less than $10 for the same hundredweight. We need a system that will match output to need, and pay farmers a fair price. 
   There is widespread support around the country for an increase in the price support. In fact the National Farmers Union and the National Farmers Organization, earlier this year, testified in support of an increase of the current price support of $9.90. Such a system will allow farmers to earn a price that covers the cost of production, and reduce the wild price fluctuations we have witnessed over the past few years. 
   I want to make it very clear that I believe the vitality of the dairy industry is important not only to my State's economic health, and to the economic health of agricultural States all across the country, but to the maintenance of viable rural communities throughout our nation. I think it is important if we are to protect the environment. I think it is important if we are to have diversity. I think it is important if we are to avoid more concentration in the agricultural sector of our country. I think it is important if we are to continue to have family farmers who can produce wholesome milk at a decent price for consumers. I think it is important because it represents the very best of what we have been about as a nation. I hope we can make substantive dairy policy reforms this year, and I believe an increase in the price support is an important component, as is a targeted supply management mechanism. It is clear we must act soon. And I hope we can do it before the close of Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am proud to join my colleagues here today as co-sponsor of this bill which represents an important step forward in solving the shortage of affordable housing. The need for affordable housing has reached epic proportions and touches all of our communities. The time for action is now. 
   The National Affordable Housing Trust Fund will be used to produce housing that is affordable to very low income families. It will provide states matching grant funds to produce affordable housing and engage in homeownership activities. It will allow non-profit intermediaries to compete for funds to produce housing. Most importantly, however, is it will use the proceeds from our investment in promoting homeownership to build homes for low income families. 
   Mr. President, in 1997, 5.4 million households with 12.3 million people paid more than one half of their income in rent or lived in seriously substandard housing. Who are these 12.3 million people? 1.5 million are elderly persons, 4.3 million are children and between 1.1 and 1.4 million are adults with disabilities. We can afford to do better. This is a prosperous nation that can afford to solve this problem. 
   In may own states of Minnesota, a worker must earn $11.54 an hour, 40 hours a week, 522 weeks out of the year to afford a fair market rent for a two bedroom apartment. $11.54. That's more than double the minimum wage. In fact, to afford a two bedroom apartment at minimum wage, families must work 88 hours a week. 88 hours. That's barely possible for a two parent family, and it is completely impossible for single parent families. 
   The poorest families are particularly hard hit. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, a study conducted by the Family Housing Fund found 68,900 renters with incomes below $10,000 in Minneapolis-St. Paul and only 31,200 housing units with rents affordable to those families. That is more than two families for each unit affordable to a family at that income level and there is every indication it is getting worse. 
   Given this information, it isn't hard to understand why the number of families entering emergency shelters and  using emergency food pantries is on the rise. In fact, more and more of the homeless are working full time and are still unable to find housing. 
   Mr. President, we must do more. The shortage of affordable housing is so drastic that in Minneapolis-St. Paul, like many other cities, even those families fortunate enough to receive housing vouchers cannot find a rental unit. Landlords are becoming increasingly selective given the demand for housing and are requiring three months security deposit, hefty application fees and credit checks that price the poor and young new renters out of the market. 
   Let me share a story that truly struck me. In February, the Minneapolis Public Housing Authority distributed applications for families in the region interested in public housing. This was the first time since 1996 applications were accepted for public housing and it will likely to be last time for several years. Six thousand families sought applications for public housing in six days. An average of 1,000 families each day requested applications to reside in public housing in one metropolitan area. 
   Those families were not applying for free housing. Residents would be required to pay one third of their income in rent. This is not luxury housing. Many families seem to look upon public housing with disdain, though I know those communities are rich with the talents and contributions of their tenants. This is not even immediate housing. Many of those families will wait years to get into public housing. 
   Clearly this is a sign that the demand for housing far exceeds the supply. There is an immediate need to produce more affordable housing. Fortunately, we can afford to do this. Fortunately, we have a plan to do this. 
   Mr. President, I know it is hard to think about poverty when we are surrounded by so much prosperity. But economic prosperity has not touched every family. Instead the gap between income groups continues to widen and the gap between what low income families earn and what they must pay for housing also appears to be widening. 
   The Bureau of Labor Statistics report that between 1995 and 1997 rents increased faster than income for the 20 percent of American households with the lowest incomes. The Consumer Price Index for Resident Rent rose 6.2 percent, higher than the 3.9 percent rate of inflation for the same period. 
   The skyrocketing rents are fueled by the shortage of housing. The demand for housing exceeds the supply, so in the private market the rents spiral upwards and far beyond the reach of the poor and often well-beyond the reach of the middle class who find themselves priced out of the very communities they grew up in. 
   This affects families with children, elderly persons and persons with disabilities. It affects the well-being of businesses. The cost of housing has skyrocketed in some communities to a level that businesses cannot retain workers because their workers cannot afford to live in those communities. 
   The shortage of housing is making it difficult for communities to retain some of our most essential workers. Police, firemen, teachers are all being priced out of the very communities they seek to serve! 
   Mr. President, I am proud to be part of this effort that will generate more affordable housing for low income families. It is time to heed the call we are all hearing from our constituents. There is not one town, county or metropolitan area in this nation where a family can afford a two bedroom fair market rental working full time, year round at minimum wage. Not one state where a family who receives TANF can afford a two bedroom fair market rental unit. 
   Families respond to the shortage of housing by crowding into smaller units. A one bedroom. An efficiency. Perhaps they rent seriously substandard housing, exposing their children to lead poisoning, living in neighborhoods where they don't feel safe allowing their children to play outdoors. Housing with leaky roofs, bad plumbing, rodents, roaches. Perhaps they pay more than the recommended 30 percent of their income in rent, maybe 40 percent, 50 percent or more. 
   Families may do without what we might consider necessities. Not luxuries, but necessities such as gas, heat, and electricity. Families so financially stressed that one small crisis can send them tumbling. Perhaps families double up, two families in a home. Multiple generations crowded under one roof. When the stress of multiple families becomes unbearable, they are left with homeless shelters. 
   Mr. President, in a recent study of homelessness in Minneapolis-St. Paul, The Family Housing Fund reported that more and more children experience homelessness. In one night in 1987, 244 children in the Twin Cities were in a shelter or other temporary housing. In 1999, 1,770 children were housed in shelter or temporary housing. Let me repeat that, 1,770 children in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area on one night alone sent the night in a homeless shelter or temporary housing. Seven times the number in 1987. And families are spending longer periods of time homeless. If they have a family crisis, if they lost their housing due to an eviction, if they have poor credit histories, if they can't save up enough for a two or three month security deposit, they will have longer stretches, longer periods of time in emergency shelters before they transition into homes. 
   Mr. President, we are experiencing unprecedented prosperity. It is time to make a commitment to ensuring families have access to decent affordable housing. We can afford to do this. In fact, we cannot afford not to do this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that intern Sarah Schnerer be permitted privilege of the floor this afternoon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I was necessarily absent today for rollcall vote No. 228, on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to S. 2507, the intelligence authorization bill. I was in Minnesota visiting with my constituents in Granite Falls who were victims of a tornado which struck the city last night and caused severe damage and some loss of life. Had I been present, I would have voted aye on the motion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague, Senator REID  from Nevada, for his really fine statement. One of the things I most appreciate about Senator REID is, his voice is a quiet voice, but it is a very firm and strong voice. 
   I come to the floor wondering why it is that on Tuesday morning at 11 o'clock we are in morning business, which means we can't really do the work of democracy. To me, the work of democracy is to focus on issues that are important to people's lives and to try to make a difference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Unfortunately, I am well aware of the situation, and, again, I think we have reached a point where this is raw politics. People in the country this November can decide about what direction we should take. A calculation can be made that a Presidential race is coming up and we don't want to move any judges anymore, whether it is for the court of appeals or Federal district judges. But when there has been such a long wait, as a Democrat, I think it is important that Democrats draw the line and insist that some of these highly qualified men and women be able to serve in the judiciary. 
   I want to very briefly emphasize some of what was said this morning. I want to be out here on the floor of the Senate right now but not in morning business. I would like to be out here discussing a piece of legislation or with the ability to introduce an amendment to a piece of legislation that would make a positive difference in the lives of people in Minnesota and other people in the United States of America. 
   I was at a public hearing with Representative SHEILA JACKSON-LEE from Houston. It was in Houston in Harris County, which I think is about the fifth largest county in America. It was about the mental health of children. I will never forget the testimony of Matt, who directs the county correction system. He spoke within a law and order framework. He made it clear that he is a no-nonsense law and order person. But he also said people believe these kids who are locked up are locked up because they have done something bad. But the truth is--these are his statistics--about 40 percent of these kids are locked up because parents couldn't get mental help for them. There was nothing available. 
   I would like to be out on the floor of the Senate introducing legislation and passing legislation that would make it possible for these kids to get the help--so they wouldn't be locked up; so they could go on and live good lives. 
   There is a piece of legislation I have introduced with Senator DOMENICI called the Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act. I think it is shameful that there is for so many people who struggle with mental illness still such discrimination in coverage, and their illness is treated as if it is a moral failing when they don't get the coverage. When it comes to the stays in the hospital, physician visits, and what bills are covered, the coverage isn't there. They go without treatment. I would like to be on the floor of the Senate doing the business and work of democracy by trying to pass this legislation. 
   My colleague, Senator REID, said that a Patients' Bill of Rights is just but one step. I agree with him. I think it is important to people in the country to make sure that in this health care system they fit in; to make sure the providers fit in; and to make sure that the people who are denied access to care which they believe they need for themselves and their families have a right to appeal when there is some protection for them. 
   I would like to pass meaningful patient protection legislation. I would like the floor right now involved in that debate. 
   I introduced a bill for the Service Employees International Union. It is a great union. I was at a press conference with Andy Stearn, the president, and other members of the union. This is a union that knows how to organize workers. It is the fastest growing union in America. Probably 70 or 75 percent of the membership is women. Probably 70 or 75 percent of the membership is people of color. It is a piece of legislation that I think speaks to the No. 1 concern of people around the country; that is, health security for themselves and their families. 
   What we basically say in this legislation is, as a national community, here is what we can agree upon--that there should be health care benefits for the people we represent that is as good as we have in Congress. I am determined to introduce a resolution and have a vote on that proposition that the people we represent should have the same health security that we have. 
   In that legislation, we agree nationally, as a community, that health care coverage should be affordable; that when you have an income below $20,000, you pay 0.5 percent and no more of your annual income; between $25,000 and $50,000, you pay no more than 5 percent of your income per year; and over $50,000 a year, you would never pay more than 7 percent of your annual 
   income. 
   Part of the problem with health care is not just the 44 million or 45 million who are uninsured, but all of the people when it comes to paying deductibles and fees just can't afford it any longer. Too many people are not old enough for Medicare. Even if they are, they can't afford prescription drug coverage. They are too poor for medical assistance. Even if they are, it is by no means comprehensive. They are not lucky enough to work for an employer that can provide them with affordable coverage. 
   We also say nationally that we, as a national community, we agree there should be good patient protection legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Illinois that any time he wants to raise such a question, continue to do so. He got a little ahead of me. This is exactly where I want to go. 
   To finish this proposal on this legislation and what I like about it--then I  will talk about this in a broader context--we are saying to States within this framework, go ahead and decide how you want to do this. Once we agree on universal coverage, once we have agreed it will be affordable with good benefits and patient protection for all citizens, then States decide how they want to do it--one insurer, the employer pays, pay or play, we decentralize. I think it makes all the sense in the world. 
   Then the question is, What is the cost? Over the first 4 
   years, as you phase it in, it would be $100 billion. If you are looking at the total cost over 10 years, it would be $700 billion a year. That is not even a third of the projected surplus. So the question becomes, What are our priorities? 
   I argue, based on conversations and meetings I have had with Minnesotans--some people do not agree with this point of view, but I say honestly that I do no damage to the truth on the floor of the Senate or any other time. I hope when we summarize all of the discussions from people about how to reduce poverty, how to have good welfare reform, how to have a stable middle class, how to make sure our country does well in the international economy, how to make sure our children have opportunities, how to make sure we can reduce the violence--over and over and over again, the focus is on a good education, good health care, and a good job. That is on what people are focused. 
   There are two questions. I don't want to monopolize the floor. But one of them has to do with priorities. I think what happened during the last couple of weeks is, frankly, that there has been a major ideological debate, not, in some ways, dissimilar to what happened in 1981. To the extent that you are now going to have new tax cuts disproportionately benefiting, by the way, people at the very top--I am not totally against some tax cuts. In fact, I think some tax, targeted tax cuts make a lot of sense, especially focused on working families and the priorities of our families in the country. But if you are going to basically erode the revenue base, and you are going to say over the next 10 years here is $800 billion or $900 billion, no longer from this floor any kind of investment in children, education health care, prescription drug benefits so people can afford those benefits, but instead it is going to be tax cuts disproportionately helping those people who are already the very top of the economic ladder, then you are doing two things. 
   No. 1, there is no standard of fairness in terms of who gets the tax relief and who gets the help. But even more importantly than that, you are eroding the revenue base, making it impossible for Government through public policy to make a positive difference in the lives of people. 
   If you believe when it comes to education--whether it be pre-K, whether it be affordable child care, whether it be what we can do K through 12, whether it would be higher education and spending for Pell grants, or when it comes to health care, or when it comes to a whole range of issues that affect people's lives in this way--if you believe that there is nothing the Government can or should do, fine. But that philosophy works well when you own your own large corporation and you are wealthy; it doesn't work for most people. 
   Talk to veterans about veterans' health care; talk to families about child care; talk to families about health care; talk to families about higher education; talk to families about affordable housing; talk to families about how they believe life can be better for themselves and their children. They don't believe for a moment that there is nothing we can or should do that would make a difference. Their discouragement is all too often that we don't seem to be on their side, and we don't seem to be speaking to them or including them. 
   We were in morning business at 11 o'clock this morning. The Republicans don't want to go forward with Federal judges. They don't want to have opportunities for amendments. They do not want to have opportunities for debate. They do not want to 
   talk about minimum wage. They don't want to talk about affordable prescription drug costs. They don't want to talk about patient protections. They don't want to talk about health security for families or about a commitment to early childhood development. They don't want to talk about a lot of these issues. Therefore, I think the Senate is not doing the work for enough people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this brings into sharp focus yet another issue that should be our priority, that the majority party, the Republican Party, refuses to take up. That is campaign finance reform. 
   I am not making a one-to-one correlation between what any Senator says on the floor or how he or she votes or the position he or she takes on an issue. I am talking about the overall  bias of big money and the way in which it dominates politics. When people see this chart and hear the distribution of who benefits and who does not, the benefits are in inverse relationship to need. It violates every standard of fairness people have. People are all for some tax relief, if it is for families, if it speaks to the concerns of working families. 
   This chart is, to most people, a little outrageous. This feeds into the skepticism that people have. Most people would say that is exactly what the majority party is all about. The folks they represent are the folks who can; they are the heavy hitters. They are the contributors, the players, the investors. They are the ones who have the clout. They are the ones who hire the lobbyists. They are the ones who know how, who march on Washington every day. The rest are left out. 
   By the way, all too often, people unfortunately have that perception of both parties. What we have seen over the last week or 2 weeks only reinforces the skepticism and cynicism people have about who gets represented in the Senate and who doesn't. 
   I say to my colleague from Illinois, there is another issue. The issue is, above and beyond not meeting any standard of fairness, and above and beyond huge benefits but in inverse relationship to need, there is another issue. I believe part of what the majority party is doing--and, by the way, every Republican has a first amendment right to believe this is the right thing to do for the country--is essentially eroding the revenue base, giving away $1 trillion in money so when it comes to health security for families, when it comes to long-term care 
   for our parents or our grandparents or when it comes to how you can help a child so he or she by kindergarten can come ready to learn and does not fall behind and can do well in school, they don't believe there is anything the Government should be doing. I don't agree. I don't think most of the people in the country agree. I think in that sense that is clearly where the differences between the two parties make a difference. 
   I am a critic of the timidity of our own party quite often. The differences right now between Democrats and Republicans make a real difference in the lives of people in this country. 
   I conclude by mentioning another issue. I want to make sure I don't do this in a cheap shot, bashing way. I don't want to. There is a bitter irony because we will have an appropriations bill on the floor--maybe--this week where we will be raising our salaries and, by the way, what is tricky for me is our salaries are above the Federal employees, including support staff who work hard. I am not interested in bashing away at people. But we are not interested in raising the minimum wage. We don't want to raise the minimum wage for people. If there is one proposition that people in the country agree on, people ought to be able to make enough of a wage so they can support their families and give their children the care they know their children need and deserve. 
   We are now at the point where we want to have a minimum wage bill on the floor; we want to raise the minimum wage. I say to Senator DURBIN, 75 to 80 percent of the people in the country believe that is the right thing to do. 
   Disproportionately, it is women in the workforce out there every day, people who are working 40 hours a week, almost 52 weeks a year, still poor in America, and still can't support their families. 
   We are going to have an appropriations bill out here where we are going to be raising our wages--and we don't do badly--but this Senate, this Republican majority, is not willing to even entertain a debate and let us vote on whether or not we think we should raise the minimum wage. 
   These are big issues because they crucially affect the quality or lack of quality of the lives of the people we represent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague--and I am breaking my promise on last words, but on the whole issue of Governor Bush, talking about compassionate conservatism, I have no doubt he says it with sincerity. I am fond of this old Yiddish proverb--I think it is a Yiddish proverb--about how you cannot dance at two weddings at the same time. Frankly, you can talk about compassion. But the other problem is you cannot make a difference unless you are willing to, in fact, reach into your pocket and invest some resources. 
   My colleague mentioned minimum wage. It occurred to me that one of the truly awful things is there are two groups of citizens we say we care the most about--let's talk about compassion--the very young children and the elderly, the people who built the country with the strength of their backs, who now, toward the end of their lives, may be struggling because of illness. Think about it for a moment, I say to my colleague from Illinois. Let's talk wages and then let's talk investment. The men and women who take care of small children, who work in child care, or take care of elderly people--either home-based care or nursing homes--are the most miserably paid workers in our  country. We devalue the work of adults who take care of small children. We devalue the work of adults who take care of the elderly and those people struggling toward the end of their lives. They have the lowest wages and the worst--among the worst--benefits. 
   Raising the minimum wage would help. It would make a difference. So would affordable health care coverage. We could make a difference, I say to my colleague from Illinois, and we should. But we do not. 
   Is there any wonder at the turnover in both of these fields? I know in child care there is a 40-percent turnover every year, because if you graduate from school, college, you probably are going to have a debt. If you want to work in the child care field, you are looking at a $9-an-hour job maybe with no health care benefits, or a $7-an-hour job. The same goes for home-based care or for nursing homes. 
   My final point. The problem with this chart is that you are talking about the top 1 percent getting the lion's share of all of these tax benefits. You are also talking about eroding the revenue base over the next decade to the point where, in certain decisive areas of life, we will not be able to make the investment. I want to shout this from the mountaintop on the floor of the Senate and finish with these words. 
   When it comes to child care, if you want to talk compassion and you talk so much about small children and you care so much that there is nurturing care and they are challenged and come to school ready to learn, this is not going to be done on the cheap. This is going to require real investment if we are serious. 
   When it comes to the elderly--I went through this with my parents. Now I will be critical of us for a moment. I am all for tax credits. It is fine. But both my mom and dad had 
   Parkinson's. We moved them to Northfield. We actually lived here and we moved them to Northfield, MN, to try to keep them at home. We did. We kept them at home for a long time. It got to the point where we would spend the night with them, our children would, and then we were just exhausted. 
   I sent a note out. It was the best day I ever had teaching at Carelton. I was desperate. I sent a note out to students and I said: Here is the situation with my parents. My dad in particular, he was from Ukraine, then Russia, and speaks 10 languages fluently and I think you would enjoy him. But we need some help. Would anybody be interested in spending the night? 
   The next day I got 170 letters back from students saying they would be more than willing to help. It was wonderful. Then at the very end he fell and broke his hip and we no longer could keep them at home. 
   But my point is, home-based care, enabling people to stay at home as long as possible, live with dignity, it is not done on a tax credit of $3,000. It is a lot more expensive than that. But if we are serious about this, we are going to have to make some investment. I can think of a better use of $1 trillion over the next decade for our country, the United States of America, than tax cuts that disproportionately go to the top 1 percent of the wealthy. I think we can do better for people like my mom and dad, who are no longer alive today. And I know we can do better for these small children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague, I remember the amendment well because I offered it with Senator DODD. But there was one other important feature to it. It was a refundable tax credit. It was going to provide some help for those families who did not come under $30,000, which is critically important. 
   I say the same thing about higher education. If we want to do tax credits, make sure they are refundable. Again, think of our community college students. I have reached the conclusion that the nontraditional students have become the traditional students. I have reached the conclusion that the majority of students today in higher education are no longer 18 and 19 living in a dorm. The majority are 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, going back to school, many of them women, many of them with children. And, again, I can think of a better use of this money than a tax break for the top 1 percent of the population. 
   I far prefer to be out here on the floor passing legislation which will assure affordable higher education, affordable child care, and make a real investment in health care than some of these other areas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the privilege of the floor be granted for the remainder of today to the following interns in Senator JOHNSON's office: Terry Garcia, Brad Mollet, Leif Oveson, Anna Turner, and Katy Ziegler. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak for 10 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to once again draw attention to the continuing war in Chechnya. This war has raged for too long. The war in Chechnya from 1994-1996 left over 80,000 civilians dead, and the Foreign Relations Committee has received credible evidence that the current war has again resulted in the death of thousands of innocent civilians and the displacement of well over 250,000 others. The committee also received credible evidence of widespread looting, summary executions, detentions, denial of safe passage to fleeing civilians, torture and rape, committed by Russian soldiers. Colleagues, regardless of the politics of this war, this kind of behavior is unacceptable. War has rules, and the evidence and testimony the Foreign Relations Committee received raises serious doubts as to whether or not the Russian Federation is playing by those rules. Much of the evidence we received showed clear violations of international humanitarian law, including the well-established Geneva Convention. 
   The President must use this opportunity to relay our serious concerns with the actions of the Russian Government in Chechnya. Let's remember, what was the Group of Seven and became the G-8 with the inclusion of the Russian Federation, is an association of democratic societies with advanced economies. Although Russia is not yet a liberal democracy or an advanced economy, it was invited to take part in this group to encourage its democratic evolution. Today as I watch Russia refuse to initiate a political dialogue  with the Chechen people, and continue to deny international humanitarian aid organizations and international human rights monitors access to Chechnya, I must question that evolution. 
   I am disappointed that the Group of Eight will not include the situation in Chechnya on its formal agenda, but I am hopeful that the President will voice our serious concerns about Russia's conduct in Chechnya and take concrete action to demonstrate our concern, during bilateral talks with President Putin. 
   The United States should demand that the Russian Federation push for a negotiated, just settlement to this conflict. The conflict will not be resolved by military means and the Russian Federation should initiate immediately a political dialogue with a cross-section of representatives of the Chechen people, including representatives of the democratically elected Chechen authorities. The United States should remind the Russian Federation of the requests the Council of Europe for an immediate cease-fire and initiation of political dialogue, and of Russia's obligation to that institution and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
   The President must also remind the Russian Federation government of its accountability to the international community and take steps to demonstrate that its conduct will effect its standing in the world community. This body and the U.N. Human Rights Commission has spoken out demanding the Russian government allow into Chechnya humanitarian agencies and international human rights monitors, including U.N. Special Rapporteur, yet the Russian government has not done so. This body and the international community has also demanded that the Russian Federation undertake systematic, credible, transparent and exhaustive investigations into allegations of violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in Chechnya, and to initiate, where appropriate, prosecutions against those accused. But again, the Russian Federation has not done so. 
   During his meeting with President Putin, the President is expected to discuss economic reform in Russia and regional stability issues. President Clinton must relay to the Russian President that Russia's conduct in Chechnya is not only a violation of international humanitarian law, but that it threatens Russia's ability for economic reform and creates instability in the region. And President Clinton must make clear to President Putin that while the United States fully supports the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation, and is fully aware of the evidence of grave human rights violations committed by soldiers on both sides of the conflict, we strongly condemn Russia's conduct of the war in Chechnya and will continue to publicly voice our opposition to it. President Clinton should tell President Putin that the United States will take into consideration Russian conduct in Chechnya in any request for further rescheduling of Russia's international debt and U.S. assistance, until it allows full and unimpeded access into Chechnya humanitarian agencies and international human rights monitors, in accordance with international law. 
   The war in Chechnya has caused enormous suffering for both the Chechen and Russian people, and the reports of the grave human rights violations committed there, on both sides of the conflict, continue daily. We must raise our concerns about the war in Chechnya at every chance and in every forum possible, including the G-8 Summit. 
   That is why I speak on the floor of the Senate today. 
   I fear we have already given human rights a back seat to economic issues by not placing Russia's conduct in Chechnya on the formal agenda of the G-8 summit, which is meeting right now. I hope that will not be the outcome of our bilateral talks with Russia in Japan. 
   I hope the President will be firm. I hope the President will be strong. I hope the U.S. Government is on the side of human rights. As a Senator from Minnesota, I want to communicate in the strongest possible language that I hope Russia will do well. My father fled persecution in Russia. My hope is that Russia will be able to build a democratic economy. That is my hope for the Russian people. But I also want to make it clear to the Russian Federation that the conduct in Chechnya is unacceptable, in violation of basic international law, and that we should be talking about and moving toward some kind of peaceful settlement; and, for certain, international humanitarian agencies and human rights agencies should have unimpeded access to Chechnya now. Otherwise, the murder, the rape, the torture, and the killing of innocent people will continue. We in the Senate should speak out on this matter. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to offer an amendment that is designed to make information technology--IT--jobs a part of diverse, sustainable rural economies while helping IT employers find skilled workers. The goal of this bill is to link unemployed and underemployed individuals in rural areas and on Indian reservations with jobs in the IT industry through telework. 
   We are in the midst of an information revolution which has the potential to be every bit as significant to our society and economy as the industrial revolution two hundred years ago. But in recent months there has been much discussion of the ``digital divide,'' the idea that one America is not able to take advantage of the promise of new technologies to change the way we learn, live, and work while the other America speeds forward into the 21st Century. As advanced telecommunications and information technology become the new engines of our economy, it is critical that no communities are left behind. 
   Many rural communities and Indian reservations are already facing severe unemployment, underemployment, and population loss due to a lack of economic opportunities. A study last year by the Center for Rural Affairs reports that widespread poverty exists in agriculturally based counties in a six-state region including Minnesota. Over one-third of households in farm counties have annual income less than $15,000 and, in every year from 1988 to 1997, earnings in farm counties significantly trailed other counties. Unemployment on many Indian reservations exceeds 50 percent and remote locations make traditional industries uncertain agents for economic development. 
   There are troubles ahead for the new economy as well: the information technology industry reports that it faces a dramatic shortage of skilled workers. The Minnesota Department of Economic Security projects that over the next decade, almost 8,800 workers will be needed each year to fill position openings in specific IT occupations. Approximately 1,000 students graduate each year from IT-related post-secondary programs in Minnesota, not anywhere near enough to fill the demand, according to this same state agency. This shortage is reflected nation wide, with industry projecting shortfalls of several hundred of thousand IT workers per year in coming years. 
   Rural workers need jobs. High tech employers need workers. This legislation would create models of how to bring these communities together to find a common solution to these separate challenges. 
   My amendment is very straightforward. It would simply add $3 million to the very popular and successful Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program operated by USDA's Rural Utility Service for the purpose of promoting employment of rural residents through telework. 
   Mr. President, telework is a new term that may be unfamiliar to colleagues so I want to take a moment to explain what it is. According to the International Telework Association and Council, telework is defined as using information and communications technologies to perform work away from the traditional work site typically used by the employer. For example, a person who works at home and transmits his or her work product back to the office via a modem is a teleworker, also known as a telecommuter; as is someone who works from a telework center, which is a place where many teleworkers work from--often for different companies. 
   The nature of IT jobs allow them to be performed away from a traditional work site. As long as workers have the required training, and 
   a means of performing work activities over a distance--through the use of advanced telecommunications--there is no reason that skilled IT jobs cannot be filled from rural communities. 
   Because it essentially allows distance to be erased, telework is a promising tool for rural development and for making rural and reservation economies sustainable. Very soon, a firm located in another city, another state or even another country need not be viewed as a distant opportunity for rural residents, but as a potential employer only as far away as a home computer or telework center. Likewise, telework arrangements allow employers to draw from a national labor pool without the hassles and cost associated with relocation. 
   Many businesses and organizations are already using telework or telecommuting as a tool to reduce travel and commuting times and to accommodate the needs and schedules of employees. Many metropolitan communities with high concentrations of IT industries are already looking to telework as a means of addressing urban and suburban ills such as housing shortages, traffic congestion, and pollution. 
   However, the IT industry does not currently view rural America as a potential source of skilled employees. Nor do many rural communities know how to turn IT industries into a viable source of good jobs to revitalize local economies. Moreover, many rural community leaders fear that providing IT job skills to rural residents--when there are no opportunities for using those skills in the community--will lead to further population losses as retrained workers seek opportunities in metropolitan areas. At the same time, management of off-site employees requires new practices to be developed by employers and in some cases, dramatic paradigm shifts. Rural areas and Indian reservations are in danger of being left behind by a revolution which actually holds the most promise for those communities which are the most distant. IT employers risk missing a pool of potential employees with a strong work ethic. 
   Receiving one of the teleworking grants provided for by my amendment will give rural communities access to federal resources to implement a locally designed proposal to employ rural residents in IT jobs through telework relationships, linking prospective employers with rural residents. This amendment will allow these communities to create locally developed and implemented national models for how telework can be used as a tool for rural development. 
   The necessary vision to of how to make telework a reality already exists in some employers and in some rural communities. In Sebeka, Minnesota--a town with a population of little more  than 600 people--a small firm called Cross Consulting was founded. That company employs over 20 people through a contract with Northwest Airlines to provide programming on Northwest's mainframe computers. These people are rural teleworkers. The new economy is not leaving Sebeka behind and we need to incubate that kind of innovation in rural areas and Indian reservations across this country. 
   On April 13 along with Senators BAUCUS and DASCHLE I introduced the Rural Telework Act of 2000. That legislation is a more comprehensive means to the same ends as this amendment I am offering today. I mention this legislation because it is broadly supported by private industry, rural communities, educational institutions and tribal governments. 
   For many jobs, in many industries, telework may be the future of work. It may also be the future of diverse, sustainable rural economies. This amendment offers an early opportunity to invest in local innovation to harness this potential and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague from Mississippi--I know he has the right to the floor--could I make a request to my colleagues? I have been on the floor for several hours waiting to introduce an amendment. I ask unanimous consent that after the McCain amendment I be allowed to introduce an amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 3922. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senators HARKIN, DASCHLE, and FEINGOLD be added as original cosponsors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before proceeding, I say to the Senator from Nevada, the Democratic whip, if we have a vote at 2, I believe I can finish with my presentation on this amendment and I will be pleased to go to another amendment right after the vote if my colleague wants me to move this along. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I will do this amendment and if there is a Republican amendment next, I will then follow that next Republican amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to offer this amendment, again, with Senators HARKIN, DASCHLE, and FEINGOLD, about competitive markets. I am hoping there will be a strong, if you will, free enterprise, pro-competition vote for this amendment, especially when it comes to looking out for the interests of our producers, in particular our Nation's livestock producers. 
   This amendment will fully fund the President's budget request for the Grain Inspection, Packers, and Stockyard Administration, called GIPSA, funding they need to look at market concentration. 
   What we see right now--and it is a disturbing trend in our economy and certainly a disturbing trend in the food industry--is an increasing concentration of power. We see inadequate price information both for producers and consumers. We see lack of competition. We see anticompetitive practices. Consequently, GIPSA has been asked to assume a more prominent role, as they should, in ensuring competitiveness--that is all this amendment is about--and fairness in the livestock industry. GIPSA is conducting a growing number of investigations on market concentration in agriculture, and they should be doing just this work. The point is, they should be adequately funded to do the job. 
   What this amendment does is ensure GIPSA has the resources to meet these additional responsibilities, and it increases funding for GIPSA--I say to Senators and staff, Democrats and Republicans, who are listening--by a total of $3.95 million to fund these essential programs. I am going to list these programs in a moment. 
   I recall a gathering I attended in Iowa. Senator HARKIN I believe was there. Senator GRASSLEY was there. At this gathering, we had one family farmer after another basically saying: Where is the Packers and Stockyard Administration? Why are they not involved in representing us? Where are they as we see more and more of these conglomerates taking over more and more of the market and we do not have the opportunity to compete? They should be doing their job. 
   What we heard in return from Mike Dunn was: We will do the job, but we need the resources. 
   That is what this amendment is about: making sure they have the resources to do the job they are supposed to do by 
   virtue of the law of the land. 
   What will the amendment do? It will add $1.2 million for anticompetitive behavior investigations. This is to look at what is going on in the industry and aggressively pursue especially investigations into anticompetitive activity in the livestock industry. 
   There will be $1.3 million for rapid response teams. This will enhance GIPSA's effectiveness in addressing  major investigative issues of immediate concern when it comes to anticompetitive practices or trade practice issues. 
   It will allow for $200,000 for the hog contract library. This will be used to comply with section 22 of the fiscal year 2000 Ag appropriations bill. This is the mandatory price reporting. 
   There will be $800,000 to examine the competitive structure of the poultry industry which will permit GIPSA to expand its activity in the poultry market to take a close look at characteristics of markets for poultry grower services. 
   There will be $100,000 for civil rights activities which will allow GIPSA to resolve its backlog of EEO complaints and to increase emphasis on proactive efforts to maintain EEO goals and objectives. All of us are familiar with the grievances and the just cause of many African American farmers in our country. 
   There will be $350,000 for information staff at GIPSA that will enable them to develop new educational programs which will be targeted to small and socially disadvantaged farmers and improve relations with producers. 
   This is a modest amendment. There should be strong support for this amendment. It is all about putting some free enterprise back into the free enterprise system. It is all about being on the side of our producers. 
   It simply says: Let's get the funding up to the administration's request. I think we should be doing much more than this, and I hope that by the end of this Congress--in fact, I do not hope, it absolutely has to happen--we will pass the Farmers and Ranchers Fair Competition Act which has been introduced by Senators DASCHLE and LEAHY, and a number of others of us who have worked on this as well. 
   Really, what we ought to be talking about is some legislation that makes antitrust action a reality in this country. In the food industry we need it. 
   When I travel in the countryside--and I do quite often--the one issue on which farm organizations agree--they don't agree on many--the one issue that brings farmers and rural people together is that we need to have more competition. We need to have some antitrust action. These conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table, and they are forcing us out. 
   I do not know why we are so slow to take up this cause. 
   Let me give this amendment a little bit of context. 
   In the past decade and a half, we have seen an explosion of mergers and acquisitions and anticompetitive practices with record concentration in American agriculture. 
   The top four pork packers have increased their market share from 36 percent to 57 percent. 
   The top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 percent to 62 percent. 
   The market share of the top four soybean crushers has jumped from 54 percent to 80 percent. 
   Forty-nine percent of all chicken broilers are now slaughtered by the largest four firms. 
   The list goes on and on. 
   The four largest grain buyers control nearly 40 percent of the elevator facilities in the country. 
   The result of this is that you have had this surge of concentration. You have these conglomerates which have a tremendous amount of power, you have GIPSA which does not have the resources to do the job, and you have the Senate that has not passed a strong piece of legislation that calls for antitrust action. As a result of that, the farmers, everywhere they turn, don't get a fair shake. When they look to whom they buy from, it is a few large firms that dominate the market. When they look to whom they sell to, it is a few large firms that dominate the market. 
   Everybody in this Chamber knows that if you are at an auction, you are more likely to get a good price when there are a lot of bidders. I think all of us are for competition. We need to have more competition, but we need to have a level playing field for our producers. 
   I want to report on both the horizontal concentration, that was reflected in the statistics I mentioned, but also the ways in which we have the vertical integration. 
   Take the pork industry. Pork packers are buying up what is called captive supply--hogs that they own or have contracted under marketing agreements. If this trend continues, you are going to see grain, soybean production--it will be basically from the very beginning, from the very point level of production, all the way to the supermarket. 
   The problem with this kind of vertical concentration is it destroys competitive markets. Potential competitors often don't know the sale price for the goods at any point in the process. There is no price discovery--essentially no effective competition. If it continues at the current pace, we are going to basically have all the industry dominated this way. 
   Moreover, the vertical integration stacks the deck against the farmers. 
   In April 1999, there was a report from the Minnesota Land 
   Stewardship Project that found: Packers' practice of acquiring captive supplies through contracts and direct ownership is reducing the number of opportunities for small- and medium-sized farmers to sell their hogs. With fewer buyers, and more captive supply, there is less competition for our independent producers. 
   I want to make sure we can at least get this additional $3.95 million to GIPSA so they can do the job of being there on the side of producers, so they can do the job of investigating potential or real anticompetitive practices. 
   It is a modest amendment, but it is hugely important to family farmers. 
   Leland Swensen, president of the National Farmers Union, recently testified--he is right--  
   The increasing level of market concentration, with the resulting lack of competition in the marketplace, is one of the top concerns of [American] farmers and ranchers. At most farm and ranch meetings, market concentration ranks as either the first or second in priority of issues of concern. Farmers and ranchers believe that lack of competition is a key factor in the low commodity prices they are receiving.  
   Some of these big packers are raking in record profits while our livestock producers are facing extinction. The farm/retail spread, as every Senator from every agriculture State knows, is growing wider and wider and wider, between what our producers get paid for what they produce and what consumers pay. There is a whole lot of money and a whole lot of profit that is made in the middle. I do not mind that, but I would like to see the livestock producers and our other producers in our farm States get a fair shake. 
   If there is one thing farmers ask for more than anything else, it is a level playing field. If there is one thing they are worried about, it is this increasing concentration. We ought to be able to get this additional money to GIPSA. 
   The vote on this amendment is all about whether or not we are willing to be there on the side of these family farmers, whether we are on the side of making sure we deal with anticompetitive practices, and whether we take their concerns seriously. 
   One of the reasons I bring this amendment to the floor--yes, the administration asked for this additional $3.95 million. I remember the meeting in Iowa with Senator GRASSLEY and Senator HARKIN. And I remember Mike Dunn saying: Give us the money to do the job. That is true. 
   As I have said, these conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table, and they have pushed our producers out. We have too few firms that dominate too much of the market, and we do not have enough competition. That is what this is about. I have said that. 
   But I also want all Senators to understand that this amendment is also offered in the context of the record low prices and the record low income. To tell you the truth, the AMTA payments are the only reason some of our producers are able to continue, although those payments all too often amount to a subsidy in an inverse relationship to need, and farmers are still demanding a decent price. 
   But the whole issue of price, the whole issue of producers getting a fair price, is highly correlated to whether or not there is going to be some competition. It is highly correlated 
   to whether or not we are going to take antitrust action seriously. 
   There is a reason we passed the Sherman Act in the late 1800s. There is a reason we passed the Clayton Act in the early 1900s. The reason is, to be there on the side of our producers.  
   This amendment is a small amendment. It is a modest amendment. But I think it puts Senators on record as to whether or not we are serious about antitrust action. 
   The health and the vitality of rural America, our communities--I say to the Presiding Officer, who knows quite a bit about agriculture, coming from the State of Illinois--is not based upon the number of acres of land that someone farms; it is not based upon the number of animals someone owns. The health and the vitality of rural America is based upon the number of family farmers who live in the community, because when family farmers live in a community, somebody is going to own the land; no question about it. 
   We will always have an agriculture industry. We are always going to have a food industry. What is a more precious commodity than food? It is more precious than oil. The question is, How many farmers are going to live in the community that supports the schools, that supports the churches, that supports the synagogues, that supports small businesses? The farm dollar, if you are talking about a family farm, multiplies in the community where people live, where they buy--a community they care about. When you move to these conglomerates basically being in control and absentee investment, absentee ownership, when they make a profit, they don't invest it back into the community. 
   John Crabtree of the Center for Rural Affairs sums it up this way:  
   Replacing mid-size farms with big farms reduces middle-class entrepreneurial opportunities in farm communities, at best replacing them with wage labor.  
   He goes on to say:  
   A system of economically viable, owner-operated family farms contributed more to communities than systems characterized by inequality and large numbers of farm laborers with below-average incomes and little ownership or control of productive assets.  
   Can't we get at least a little additional funding to GIPSA so they can do the job, so they can be there on the side of our producers, so they can investigate whether or not we have monopoly practices, so they can investigate whether or not family farmers are getting a decent price, so they can investigate whether or not we have a few packers who are in collusion, who are involved in anticompetitive practices? I think we can. 
   To provide a little more context, we are living in a time of merger mania. Joel Klein, who is doing a great job, head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, has pointed out that the value of last year's mergers equaled the combined value of all mergers from 1990 to 1996. 
   I heard Senator MCCAIN make part of his argument. I am not sure I agreed with all of his argument, but one of the things Senator MCCAIN focuses on, which is fair enough, is the whole 
   issue of money and politics. I would argue that here we have a perfect example. Pick your industry. In agriculture, I am talking about the way in which these conglomerates have controlled the market. How about the airline industry? In my State of Minnesota, we are reading every other day that Northwest might merge with American Airlines. We have already heard about U.S. Air and United. We only have about six airlines now. We might get down to three megacompanies. The question is, What is the impact on consumers and what is the impact on the employees? What is the impact on the State? 
   I could talk about banking. I could talk about energy. I could talk about health insurance. I could talk about any number of sectors of the economy. I could talk about telecommunications. Look at what has happened since we passed that bill. Where is the protection for consumers? And with all due respect, when we talk about a key issue, the flow of information in a democracy, we don't want to have a few media conglomerates controlling almost all of the flow of information in a democracy. 
   I am speaking about the food industry, this very modest amendment. We make policy choices. We paved the way for family farming with the Homestead Act. It was a good thing to do. We enacted parity legislation which was all about better prices, fair prices for family farmers in the 1940s. It was a good thing to do. Then we cut loan rates in the 1950s and 1960s. We passed the ``freedom to fail'' bill--I call it the ``freedom to fail'' bill--a few short years ago. It dramatically reduced prices farmers got in the marketplace. I don't think it was a very wise thing to do. Above and beyond all of that, today, what I am saying is, let's at least vote for this modest amendment. 
   Going back to Lee Swenson's testimony, of the National Farmers Union:  
   The remaining firms are increasing market share and political power to the point of controlling the governments that once regulated the firms. Some of the biggest corporations have gotten tax breaks or other government incentives....... Corporate interests have also called on the government to weaken environmental standards and immigrant labor protections in order to allow them to reduce production costs.  
   The bigger these agribusinesses get, the more influence they have over our policy choices. The bigger they get, the more money they can spend on political campaigns. The bigger they get, the more lobbyists they can hire. The bigger they get, the more likely they are to be named special U.S. trade representatives, as is the case with the CEO of Monsanto. The bigger they get, the more likely public officials will be to confuse their interests with the public interest, even if they don't already do that. And the bigger they get, the more weight they will pull in the media. It is a vicious cycle. These conglomerates have entirely too much political power. Their overwhelming size makes it too easy for them to dictate policies and to get even bigger. 
   There is something we can do in the short term. That is what this amendment is about. We can provide GIPSA with adequate funding to conduct on-the-ground investigations of market concentration. 
   This is a modest amendment. We ought to have 100 votes for this amendment. Over the longer term, we ought to do more. We ought to focus on how we can enhance the bargaining power of our 
   producers. We ought to figure out how we can be there on the side of producers, on the side of farmers, on the side of ranchers, on the side of rural America, and on the side of consumers. I look forward to bringing a significant piece of antitrust legislation that Senator DASCHLE has introduced to the floor of the Senate and having a major debate about what kind of antitrust action makes sense. 
   Referring to the minimum wage, in many ways that is what family farmers are saying, too. We have families in the country who are saying: We want to be able to make enough of a wage that we can support our families. We have family farmers who are saying: We want to be able to get at least a decent price so that we can afford to support our families. 
   We should be sensitive to that concern. We should do no less than to at least pass this very modest amendment. This amendment would increase the fund for GIPSA by $3.95 billion to fund essential programs. The offset comes out of ERS. 
   I think this vote is a vote that is critically important in farm country. It is also a critically important vote for Senators who are on the side of consumers. I hope we will have strong support for it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague for his courtesy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may I ask exactly how we are proceeding here? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask both Senators, the Senator from Mississippi or the Senator from Nevada, after we make a decision as to how we will proceed with the Harkin amendment and the Cochran amendment, am I in order next or do we go to an amendment on the other side? Just so I know whether I should need to be here. I am trying to move things forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that as soon as we make a decision on the Harkin amendment, I be allowed to offer an amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to say to Senators at the beginning of my remarks, and I say to my colleague from Mississippi, I am going to try to be brief; I don't intend to speak for a long period of time. I want to summarize this amendment for Members of the Senate, and I want to talk about why I think this is one of the most important amendments I have ever brought up and why I would like to have a vote on it or a commitment that this stays in conference committee. 
   This amendment would provide a little additional funding, $500,000, to the Food and Nutrition Service. This is all from within ERS. These are some good people. I am calling for the Food and Nutrition Service to be out in the field and to do some important policy evaluation for us about why it is that in the last half decade or so we have seen about a 30-percent decline in food stamp participation. There is not a 30-percent decline in poverty. 
   As a matter of fact, I am sad to say on the floor of the Senate that there has actually been an increase in the poverty of the poorest children in homes which have poverty-level income. They can evaluate why it is that one out of every ten households is ``food insecure,'' some 36 million, 37 million, and 40 percent of them children. And with a major safety net program for children, we can make sure that children are not malnourished and don't go hungry. We have seen a dramatic decline in participation. 
   What is going on? We are the decisionmakers. We are the policymakers. Let's have an honest evaluation because the background to this program goes something like this: In the mid and late sixties--I remember I was a student at the University of North Carolina when these studies first came out. There were a series of studies and exposes. There was a CBS documentary--Hunger U.S.A., I think--in 1968. We saw children with distended bellies. 
   We read about and heard about children who were suffering with scurvy and rickets. We could not believe that in America we had widespread malnutrition and hunger. We don't talk about this enough on the floor of the Senate. 
   Senator COCHRAN from Mississippi--I am not trying to ingratiate myself to him--actually is one of the Members in  the Senate who has been most focused on food and nutrition programs. It was Richard Nixon, a Republican President, who said we have to make some changes on this issue, and whether or not we are going to have some kind of safety net. It won't be Heaven on Earth. It won't be perfect. But we will at least make sure that we try to get some help to these families. We are going to make sure this is a Federal program. Do you want to know something, colleagues? This is public policy that has worked because we dramatically reduced, up until recently, the extent of malnutrition and hunger in the country. 
   What is happening now with this program? The Food and Nutrition Service would go out in the field. They would study the barriers faced by families with limited access to the Food Stamp Program. What are the reasons for the dramatic decline in participation in the Food Stamp Program? On-site review out in the field completed within 180 days a report and sent it to us. 
   The food stamp rolls have plummeted over the last several years. Since April of 1996, nearly 8.6 million people have dropped off the food stamp rolls and more than 1 million last year alone. 
   If this was because of a reduction in poverty, I wouldn't worry about it. But that is not what it is. 
   Of the 36 million people living in food-insecure households --I hate that language. They live in homes where they are either going hungry or they are malnourished. Of 14.5 million Americans, 40 percent are children. 
   A study by Second Harvest, the Nation's largest domestic hunger relief organization, found that more than one out of every three persons served by food banks are children. 
   By the way, in almost 40 percent of the households that rely on emergency food assistance, there was at least one adult who was employed. 
   You have a lot of people in our country who are working poor people. They are eligible for this assistance. It makes a real difference to them and their children. But we have seen this dramatic decline in participation. I think we need to know why. 
   A report by the U.S. Conference of Mayors shows similar results. It shows there has been a dramatic increase--can you believe it--in the demand for emergency food assistance in major cities across the United States in the last 15 years. 
   Can I make that clear? We have a booming economy. We are talking about all of this affluence. There are people who spend $10,000 or $15,000 on one vacation, and the Conference of Mayors says we are seeing a dramatic demand in the need for emergency food assistance. 
   Catholic Charities, the Nation's largest private human service, reported providing emergency food services to more than 5.6 million, more than 1 million of whom were children. 
   When we are talking about food pantries, when we are talking about Catholic Charities, when we are talking about Second Harvest, when we are talking about all of these relief organizations saying there has been this increase in demand and 
   saying that many of the citizens they help are children, something is wrong. Something is wrong with our priorities. No citizen in America should be hungry today. No child should be hungry. 
   I don't have the statistics. But I am guessing. It is just intuition. It is what I have seen with my own eyes. There are also significant numbers of elderly people who are malnourished. 
   The Food Research and Action Center, which I believe has done the very best work in this area, reports that more than 1.2 million people left the food stamp rolls between October 1998 and October 1999. Again, 8.6 million people have left the Food Stamp Program since April of 1996. 
   Senators, here is the statistic that is jarring. According to the USDA, more than one-third of those who are eligible for the Food Stamp Program are not receiving benefits. We had a dramatic decline of about a 30-percent drop over the last 4 years, and USDA itself comes out and says that one-third of those who are eligible are not receiving any benefits at all. 
   A report released by the National Campaign for Jobs and Income Supports, another really good organization and good coalition, found that the number of poor people receiving food stamps has declined by 37 percent--more than 10 million people since 1994--although the number of people living in poverty has not declined anywhere close to the same rate. 
   In 1995, for every 100 poor people in the country, 71 were using food stamps. In 1998, for every 100 poor people, only 54 were using food stamps. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I hope there will be a strong vote for this amendment. I hope and I pray that we can keep this in conference because we should do this evaluation; we should get a report; we should know what is going on. This is important. This is all about whether our citizens, people in the country, are malnourished or not, whether they go hungry or not, whether children have a chance or not, whether we provide the help that elderly people need. We are not doing a good job. Something is wrong. 
   I think if we get the study done--I don't know why we can't--then we will no longer be in a position of not knowing or not wanting to know and we will take some action. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Before my colleague goes further, I was referring to this specific topic. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I ask unanimous consent I may send a technical correction to the desk. A sentence was written on the wrong line. I ask unanimous consent I modify the amendment. This is technical. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Mississippi that I accept what he said in very good faith about the conference committee, and if he can, in his wisdom and experience, strengthen this amendment, I am all for that. When he tells me he will do everything he can to advocate for this amendment, I accept his word. There is no question about it. 
   The second point I wish to make is just to clarify, or make the RECORD clear, that my indignation is not so much that ``my'' amendment was taken out in conference committee. I don't really care about it being my amendment. What bothers me, what troubles me, I say to Senator COCHRAN, is that--and I cited about seven or eight different studies, good studies done by good people--we do have before us a very important challenge. 
   We have seen this dramatic decline. We know how important this program can be. We are getting reports that there are a lot of families eligible who are not participating. We are getting the reports from all the religious communities that the use of the food shelves are going up. We are getting reports from teachers in schools telling us kids are coming to school malnourished. 
   So I am saying I find it a little hard to understand how in conference last year certain folks, whoever they were, just took this out. They were not interested in knowing. I think we ought to care about this. I insist we do. I know the Senator from Mississippi does. 
   I think we will get a strong vote in the Senate and that will be good. The Senate will be strongly on record and I hope we can carry this in conference. I thank the Senator for his support. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Texas, I think I will take about 3 or 4 minutes; that's all. I want to associate myself with the remarks of my colleagues from North Dakota. 
   I simply want to put it in personal terms because I think that is the way most Senators understand things. About 2 weeks ago, I was visiting with friends. When I drove up, there were pickup trucks as far as you could see. The farmers were there because of flooding, again, for the seventh year in a row. In my State, 350,000 acres of farmland have been destroyed. You could just look at the faces of people and see the pain. This happened in June when we were dealing with the MILCON bill. We were not able to assess the damage yet. 
   Look, whatever the vehicle is and however we do this, I thank Senator COCHRAN for understanding what we are trying to do, and I hope--this amendment has been withdrawn, but I hope we do come together as Senators to support this. This is not just about North Dakota or Minnesota; it also is about a lot of States in the South. There, it is the opposite problem; it is drought. 
   I have only been here--I guess it is a long time--9 years. That is not as long as some of my colleagues. The way I feel about the Senate is we do become a community. Maybe we will do it a different way, but we are a community in the sense that it is, there but for the grace of God go I. Whenever Senators come to the floor and say: My God, it's been tornadoes, it's been hurricanes, its floods, its droughts and people are hurting and people need help, I do not hesitate to vote for other Senators and other people in other States. That is what this is about. 
   This amendment has been withdrawn, but the question before us will continue to be a question before us. I certainly hope that, working with Senators, Democrats and Republicans alike, we will be able to get the support. 
   I will finish this way: This is not like how do you come to the floor of the Senate and sneak something through or there is something that you are doing that is some flagrant special interest favor. The only special interests here are a whole bunch of good people, who are going through a living hell, who need some help. What we are trying to do is get that help for those people. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to once again draw attention to the continuing war in Chechnya. This war has raged for too long. The war in Chechnya from 1994-1996 left over 80,000 civilians dead, and the Foreign Relations Committee has received credible evidence that the current war has again resulted in the death of thousands of innocent civilians and the displacement of well over 250,000 others. The committee also received credible evidence of widespread looting, summary executions, detentions, denial of safe passage to fleeing civilians, torture and rape, committed by Russian soldiers. Colleagues, regardless of the politics of this war, this kind of behavior is unacceptable. War has rules, and the evidence and testimony the Foreign Relations Committee received raises serious doubts as to whether or not the Russian Federation is playing by those rules. Much of the evidence we received showed clear violations of international humanitarian law, including the well-established Geneva Convention. 
   Tomorrow is the official opening of Group of Eight Summit in Japan. The President must use this opportunity to relay our serious concerns with the actions of the Russian Government in Chechnya. Let's remember, what was the Group of Seven and became the G-8 with the inclusion of the Russian Federation, is an association of democratic societies with advanced economies. Although Russia is not yet a liberal democracy or an advanced economy, it was invited to take part in this group to encourage its democratic evolution. Today as I watch Russia refuse to initiate a political dialogue with the Chechen people, and continue to deny international humanitarian aid organizations and international human rights monitors access to Chechnya, I must question that evolution. 
   I am disappointed that the Group of Eight will not include the situation in  Chechnya on is formal agenda, but I am hopeful that the President will voice our serious concerns about Russia's conduct in Chechnya and take concrete action to demonstrate our concern, during bilateral talks with President Putin. 
   The United States should demand that the Russian Federation push for a negotiated, just settlement to this conflict. The conflict will not be resolved by military means and the Russian Federation should initiate immediately a political dialogue with a cross-section of representatives of the Chechen people, including representatives of the democratically elected Chechen authorities. The United States should remind the Russian Federation of the requests the Council of Europe for an immediate cease-fire and initiation of political dialogue, and of Russia's obligation to that institution and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
   And colleagues, the President must also remind the Russian Federation government of its accountability to the international community and take steps to demonstrate that its conduct will effect its standing in the world community. This body and the U.N. Human Rights Commission has spoken out demanding the Russian government allow into Chechnya humanitarian agencies and international human rights monitors, including U.N. Special Rapporteur, yet the Russian government has not done so. This body and the international community has also demanded that 
   the Russian Federation undertake systematic, credible, transparent and exhaustive investigations into allegations of violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in Chechnya, and to initiate, where appropriate, prosecutions against those accused. But again, the Russian Federation has not done so. 
   During his meeting with President Putin, the President is expected to discuss economic reform in Russia and regional stability issues. President Clinton must relay to the Russian President that Russia's conduct in Chechnya is not only in violation of international humanitarian law, but that it threatens Russia's ability for economic reform and creates instability in the region. And President Clinton must make clear to President Putin that while the United States fully supports the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation, and is fully aware of the evidence of grave human right violations committed by soldiers on both sides of the conflict, we strongly condemn Russia's conduct of the war in Chechnya and will continue to publicly voice our opposition to it. President Clinton should tell President Putin that the United States will take into consideration Russian conduct in Chechnya in any request for further rescheduling of Russia's international debt and U.S. assistance, until it allows full and unimpeded access into Chechnya humanitarian agencies and international human rights monitors, in accordance with international law. 
   Colleagues, the war in Chechnya has caused enormous suffering for both the Chechen and Russian people, and the reports of the grave human rights violations committed there, on both sides of the conflict, continue daily. We must raise our concerns about the war in Chechnya at every chance and in every forum possible, including the G-8 Summit. I remind you again that the Group of Eight is an association of democratic societies with advanced economies--the Group of Seven invited the Russian Federation to encourage its democratic evolution. It is not yet a liberal democracy or an advanced economy. By not taking concrete steps during this Summit to demonstrate to the Russian Federation that its conduct is unacceptable for a democratic nation, is to condone it. I fear we have already put given human rights a back seat to economic issues by not placing Russian conduct in Chechnya on the formal agenda of the G-8 Summit. I hope that will not be the outcome of our bilateral talks with Russia in Japan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to speak about my colleague, Senator COVERDELL. I know other Senators have. I absolutely have nothing rehearsed. There are many Senators who will speak about Senator COVERDELL probably in a more profound and moving way than I can. 
   There is one moment I want to remember about Senator COVERDELL because this small story tells a large story. We had had a major debate about the Colombia aid package. Senator COVERDELL and I were in a debate. We did not agree. It was a pretty good debate back and forth. I know from time to time during the debate I would reach over and touch his hand and say something to the effect: I just cannot believe you said this; this is wrong--something like that. 
   At the end of the debate, I said, because I believed it and believe it: Senator COVERDELL is a really good Senator. 
   He smiled and touched my hand and said: Senator WELLSTONE is a really good Senator. 
   I do not know if the latter part is true, but the point is that is the way he was. That is the kind of Senator he was. We talk about civility. He was just a beautiful person. I really enjoyed him. We need a lot of Senators like Senator COVERDELL: PAUL, you are wrong on the issues but you are a really good person. 
   The Senate has lost a wonderful person and a wonderful Senator, and the United States of America has lost a wonderful person and a wonderful Senator. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, I send my love to PAUL's family. 
   I will not forget PAUL COVERDELL. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am very pleased to be involved in working on this legislation with the Senator from Vermont and other legislation with Senator DORGAN. 
   To my colleague from Utah, if we read the amendment carefully--all colleagues who are going to vote--we are very clear on protections. If safeguards are not in place, the drugs cannot be reimported. That is clear language. 
   These are some of the protections: strict FDA oversight; proof of FDA approval of imported medicines; only licensed pharmacists and wholesalers can import medicines for retail sale; importers will have to meet requirements for handling as strict as those already in place for manufacturers; lab testing to screen out counterfeits; lab testing to ensure purity, potency, and safety of medications. It is all clear. 
   I have a letter from the National Community Pharmacists which is in favor of this exact concept of our pharmacists and wholesalers being able to reimport these drugs so our consumers can afford it. 
   The only protection we don't have in this amendment is protection for the pharmaceutical industry to continue to make excessive profits. I quote from Fortune magazine:  
   Whether you gauge profitability by median return on revenues, assets, or equity, pharmaceuticals had a Viagra kind of year.  
   We are talking about an industry making enormous profits, profits as a percentage of revenue up around 18.6 percent. We have all the protection for consumers. We just don't want to protect the pharmaceutical company from being able to gouge consumers. People in Minnesota and in Alabama and in Vermont and in North Dakota are saying: Why can't we have the trade? Why can't we have the competition? Why can't our pharmacists and wholesalers reimport these drugs back to us so we can get the drugs we need for ourselves and our families at a price we can afford? 
   This is a real simple amendment. You are on the side of consumers, you are on the side of real competition, or you are on the side of the pharmaceutical industry. On this one, Senators have to be on the side of consumers. 
   I am glad we finally have the chance to bring up legislation that corrects the injustice that finds American consumers the least likely of any in the industrialized world to be able to afford drugs manufactured by the American pharmaceutical industry because of the unconscionable prices the industry charges only here in the United States. 
   When I return to Minnesota which I do frequently, I meet with many constituents, but none with more compelling stories than senior citizens struggling to make ends meet because of the high cost of prescription drugs--life-saving drugs that are not covered under the Medicare program. Ten or twenty years ago these same senior citizens were going to work everyday--in the stores, and factories, and mines in Minnesota--earning an honest paycheck, and paying their taxes without protest. Now they wonder, how can this government--their government--stand by, when the medicines they need are out of reach. 
   But it is not just that medicare does not cover these drugs. The unfairness which Minnesotans feel is exacerbated of course by the high cost of prescription drugs here in the United States--the same drugs that can be purchased for frequently half the price in Canada or Mexico or Europe. These are the  exact same drugs, manufactured in the exact same facilities with the exact same safety precautions. A year ago, most Americans did not know that the exact same drugs are for sale at half the price in Canada. Today, you can bet the pharmaceutical industry wishes no one knew it. But the cat is out of the bag--and it is time for Congress to right these inequities. 
   All the legislators speaking today have heard the first-hand stories from our constituents--in Minnesota, Vermont, North Dakota, South Dakota, Washington state--constituents who are justifiably frustrated and discouraged when they can't afford to buy prescription drugs that are made in the United States--unless they go across the border to Canada where those same drugs, manufactured in the same facilities are available for about half the price. 
   Senior citizens have lost their patience in waiting for answers--and so have I. 
   Driving to Canada every few months to buy prescription drugs at affordable prices isn't the solution; it is a symptom of how broken parts of our health care system are. Americans regardless of party have a fundamental belief in fairness--and know a rip-off when they see one. It is time to end that rip-off. While we can be proud of both American scientific research that produces new miracle cures and the high standards of safety and efficacy that we expect to be followed at the FDA, it is shameful that America's most vulnerable citizens--the chronically ill and the elderly--are being asked to pay the highest prices in the world here in the U.S. for the exact same medications manufactured here but sold more cheaply overseas. 
   That is why I introduced with Senator DORGAN the International Prescription Drug Parity Act, and with Senator JEFFORDS the Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act, two bills which will amend the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow American pharmacists and distributors to import prescription drugs into the United States as long as the drugs meet FDA's strict safety standards. Pharmacists and distributors will be able to purchase these drugs--often manufactured right here in the U.S.--at lower prices overseas and then pass the huge savings along to American consumers. 
   What these bills do is to address the absurd situation by which American consumers are paying substantially higher prices for their prescription drugs than are the citizens of Canada, and the rest of the industrialized world. These bills do not create any new federal programs. Instead they use principles frequently cited in both Houses of the Congress--principles of free trade and competition--to help make it possible for American consumers to purchase the prescription drugs they need. Now we have the chance to adopt an amendment that includes the best of both those bills. 
   And the need is clear. A recent informal survey by the Minnesota Senior Federation on the price of six commonly used prescription medications showed that Minnesota consumers pay, on average, nearly double (196%) that paid by their Canadian counterparts. These excessive prices apply to drugs manufactured by U.S. pharmaceutical firms, the same drugs that are sold for just a fraction of the U.S. price in Canada and Europe. 
   Pharmacists could sell prescription drugs for less here in the United States, if they 
   could buy and import these same drugs from Canada or Europe at lower prices than the pharmaceutical companies charge here at home. 
   Now, however, Federal law allows only the manufacturer of a drug to import it into the U.S. Thus American pharmacists and wholesalers must pay the exorbitant prices charged by the pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. market and pass along those high prices to consumers. It is time to stop protecting the pharmaceutical industry's outrageous profits--and they are outrageous. 
   Where the average Fortune 500 industry returned 3.8 percent profits as a percentage of their assets, the pharmaceutical industry returned 16.5 percent. 
   Where the average Fortune 500 industry returned 15 percent profits as a percentage of shareholders equity, the pharmaceutical industry returned 36 percent. 
   Those record profits are no surprise to America's senior citizens because they know where those profits come from--they come from their own pocketbooks. It is time to end the price gouging. 
   We need legislation that can assure our Senior Citizens and all Americans that safe and affordable prescription medications at last will be as available in the United States of America as they are in all the other countries of the industrialized world. This amendment which I am introducing along with Senators JEFFORDS and DORGAN accomplishes that end. 
   And contrary to the campaign of false information being promoted by the pharmaceutical industry, the Amendment includes all the safety precautions needed to protect the American public. This amendment includes the specific protections--which were not included in the House-passed amendments--to make sure we are not sacrificing safety for price. 
   The only things that are not protected in this amendment are the excessive profits of the pharmaceutical industry. My job as a United States Senator is not to protect those profits but to protect the people. Colleagues, please join in and support this thoughtful and necessary amendment that will help make prescription drugs affordable to the American people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may we have order in the Chamber. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 
   today I want to talk about an issue that is of the utmost importance: Health Security. 
   First I want to talk about the problem: Health insecurity. Then I want to talk about the solution: The Health Security for All Americans Act. And finally I want people around the country to hear what they can do to wake up Congress and make Health Security for All Americans a reality. 
   This year has been a hard one for me. Two months ago, we buried one of my dear friends, Mike Epstein. Mike's sons came to be with him for the last few weeks of his struggle with cancer. Devoted sons, they spoke glowingly about their father at a memorial service for him in the Capitol. As any of you who has sat with a dying parent knows, emotions overflow, coping is difficult, and the grief is profound. The last thing a son or daughter, a parent or spouse, needs is to have the additional burden of wondering where will the next dollar for ever mounting health care bills come from; to worry about going into debt; to worry about going bankrupt because of a loved ones health care needs. Mike's sons did not have to worry about that because Mike had health care coverage as good as Congress gets.  
   The wife of my health policy advisor, John Gilman, battled cancer for two and a half years before succumbing one month ago. She had required innumerable sessions of radiation therapy, plus chemotherapy and surgery. John had his hands full with work plus taking care of his wife, both physically and emotionally. It is draining, but can you imagine how much worse it would be if John and his wife, June, had no health insurance. John didn't have to worry about how to pay for the next medical bill because John and his wife had health care coverage as good as Congress gets. 
   People do get ill. As hard as we try and as much as we pray, we can't always cure them. But we certainly can make sure they all have access to high quality, affordable care with dignity. There is no reason why all Americans can't have health insurance as good as everyone of us who serves in the United States Senate. 
   The idea of procuring health security for all Americans is not a new one. Franklin Delano Roosevelt recognized the need for universal health care in the 1930s when we were in the depths of the depression; Harry Truman fought for it in the 1940s when the troops came home from World War II; John Kennedy envisioned it in the midst of the cold war; Richard Nixon had it high on his agenda before events overtook his Presidency. 
   What these 20th century Presidents all understood is that there is a basic human drive for good health, and the good health of the American people is what drives this country and its economy. By 1992 it was far past due for us to recognize that all Americans should have a basic right to quality affordable health care. We had the opportunity in 1993 and 1994 to confer that right on to all of our people--and we lost it, because of differences and failures to compromise, and obstructionists and nay sayers, and failing to keep our eye on the ball: Universal, quality, affordable health care for every American. 
   I began introducing bills to provide universal health care in this country shortly after I arrived in the Senate in 1991. Back then people were aware of the problems of the uninsured--it wasn't being swept under the rug. Do you remember back in 1992, we were coming out of a recession, unemployment was at 7.5 percent, the national debt was increasing each year and 36 million Americans were uninsured, and everyone was talking about some form of health insurance for all. 
   Eight years later, we're told the economy's humming along, unemployment is the lowest its been in 30 years, and there is a budgetary surplus. But despite the fact that there are 45 million Americans without health insurance--10 million more than there were 10 years ago--nobody in Washington is talking seriously about doing anything about it. Incremental change may keep some people from losing their insurance, and may insure some people who would otherwise be uninsured, but incrementalism has not stopped the steady rise in the number of uninsured in America which will soar to 55 million people by 2008. 
   We need to change that. I don't think the fact that 140 million Americans own stocks today should make us forget that 45 million Americans don't have health insurance. And that millions more can't make ends meet because their health insurance is simply too expensive. 
   Make no mistake about it: Not having health insurance has its consequences. And I know some of you know it personally too well. There are some myths out there about not having health insurance that need to be debunked: 
   The first myth is that the uninsured can easily get the care they need. But the fact is: Uninsured Americans needlessly suffer because they don't have access to the care they need. For example, the uninsured are four times more likely to go without needed medical care and to delay seeking care; and are up to four times more likely to experience an avoidable hospitalization and emergency hospital care. The uninsured are more likely to be in fair or poor health and have a higher probability of in-hospital death than the privately insured. 
   The second myth is that the lack of health insurance is usually a temporary condition and that most people get their coverage back quickly. But the fact is otherwise: Nearly 60 percent of people who are uninsured have been uninsured for at least two years. Or put another way: 6 out of 10 people who lose their health insurance this month will still be uninsured in July 2002! 
   Employers used to do more to help assure their workers of coverage. In 1985, nearly two-thirds of businesses with 100 or more workers paid the full cost of health coverage. Last year only one-fourth of businesses did. In 1988, employers asked workers to pay on average 20 percent of the cost through payroll deductions. By 1998, they had raised the average worker's share to 27 percent. Three-fourths of the working uninsured are not offered or eligible for any coverage through their workplace. 
   The third myth is that most people don't have health insurance because they are not working. But the fact is: 75 percent of uninsured Americans hold down full-time jobs or are the dependents of someone who does, and nine out of ten come from working families. What's also a fact is that low wage workers frequently aren't offered insurance at all through their employment or if they are, it is at an unaffordable price. 
   The fourth myth is that most people who don't have insurance could afford it but just choose not to buy it. But the fact is: The high cost of health insurance premiums is the main reason that half the uninsured don't have health insurance. Only 3 percent of people without insurance say the most important reason is because they don't think they need it. 
   Going without health insurance means living in poorer health. Most uninsured adults have no regular source of health care. Most postpone getting care. Three in ten go without needed medical care. A quarter forego getting the medicine they need because they cannot afford to fill their medical prescriptions. Uninsured children are 30 percent more likely to fall behind on well-child care and 80 percent more likely to never have routine care at all. 
   The uninsured are three to four times more likely to have problems getting the health care they feel the need. Uninsured children are at least 70 percent more likely not to get medical care for common conditions--like asthma--that if left untreated can lead to more serious health problems. 
   Uninsured Americans are more likely to end up hospitalized for conditions--like uncontrolled diabetes--that they could have avoided with better health care. In the end, uninsured patients are more likely to die while hospitalized than privately insured patients with the same health problems. 
   Partly because they are less likely to get regular mammograms, uninsured women are nearly 50 percent more likely to die of breast cancer. Our system takes its toll in senseless, random pain and suffering. 
   Without insurance, the medical bills mount quickly. More than one in three uninsured adults have problems paying their medical bills. The uninsured are three times more likely to have problems with their medical bills than the insured. Eight out of ten uninsured people receive absolutely no reduced charge or free health services. The crushing weight of bankruptcy looms on the horizon. One out of four people filing for bankruptcy identified an illness or injury as a major reason for filing; 1 out of 3 had substantial medical bills; and almost 50 percent had both. 
   Even with insurance, low- and middle-income families frequently find themselves in a financial straight jacket. Families with annual incomes of $30,000 or less are spending an inordinate, unaffordable share of their income on health care expenses. And the average family with an income under $10,000 is paying well over 20 percent of its annual income on health care costs. These families can least afford to make that kind of payment. 
   For families with annual incomes of $30,000 or more, the average amount of that income spent on premiums, deductibles and co-pays drops to below 5 percent on average. But these are just averages: many families at every income level spend more than 10 percent of their family income on health care, especially if someone in the family has a serious illness. That is not affordable. That is not fair. 
   Since coming to the Senate, my number one priority has been achieving universal, affordable, comprehensive, quality care for all Americans. That is  why I am proud to be introducing today the Health Security for All Americans Act. 
   Let me digress and tell you how I arrived at this legislation. 
   When I was first elected to the Senate and Bill Clinton was elected president two years later, I believed the political winds and tides were aligned for a decade of progressive change for America. I thought I had been elected at just the right time to be a part of this change. When President Clinton, in his State of the Union speech, announced he would veto any health care legislation that did not provide universal coverage, that every citizen must be covered, I jumped to my feet and cheered. This was why I came to Washington, to make this kind of change, and this was a fight I thought we could win. 
   But I had some quick learning to do. When I spoke about my interest in a ``single-payer'' health care plan, similar to the Canadian system where doctors and hospitals remain in the private sector, but where there is just one insurer or payer, I was told by a senior colleague that my plan might be the best proposal. ``But it does not have a chance. The insurance industry hates it and it will go nowhere. It is just not realistic.'' 
   I was completely disillusioned. I could not accept then, and I do not accept now, the proposition that even before the American people have the opportunity to be informed or included, a good proposal is ``dead on arrival'' because the insurance industry opposes it. That isn't supposed to happen in a representative democracy! 
   In spite of the advice, I did introduce the single payer plan with Jim McDermott, a congressman and physician from the state of Washington. I thought first you start with the most desirable, and later on in the process you'll find out what is politically feasible. I refused to admit defeat before we had even begun to fight. And I was hoping that our legislation would pull the debate in a more progressive direction. 
   What happened was just the opposite. The trillion dollar health care industry, led by the insurance companies, went on the attack, not against our plan which ``wasn't realistic'' but against the President's plan which ``was''. ``Harry and Louise'' ads cried out against the horrors of ``government medicine.'' Intensive and expensive lobbying efforts expounded on the same theme. 
   Media coverage, which should have been about the nuts and bolts of different proposals shifted now to focus on strategy rather than substance and head counts rather than hard information. So ordinary citizens no longer had a source of knowledge to form opinions and inform their elected leaders. 
   But the problems were not limited to the insurance lobby and the media. The only way we could have beaten the health care industry would have been with dramatic and effective citizen politics. It never happened. Progressives didn't organize a constituency to fight for health care reform, and the Administration didn't have the political will to stand up to powerful interests and therefore never asked the American people to take on this fight. They tried to win with ``inside politics,'' cutting deals and making compromises with different economic interests. 
   With each accommodation to private power, the President's plan became hopelessly complicated. As a constituent told me at the time, ``How can you be for something you don't understand?'' What started as a noble effort by the President to fill a crucial national need became instead an object of derision. 
   Over the years, as I traveled around the country talking about the need for Universal Health Care and the Single Payer model, I found people turning off--not to the need for health insurance for all, but to the specific mechanism I favored. They wanted universal health care, but they didn't want a national single payer system or they didn't think one was possible here, so they stopped listening. 
   The mood of the country has changed since the early 1990s. In 1990, there were 34 million uninsured. Ten years later, today, there are 45 million, and the number is growing by 100,000 people per month. Numerous polls show that the large majority of Americans want universal affordable comprehensive health care coverage and that they are willing to pay higher taxes for everyone to be covered. 
   The people and the States are ahead of the Federal politicians on this issue. The people want a big change; not an incremental change. In Massachusetts and Washington state, people are pushing for ballot referendums in the fall on universal coverage. Massachusetts and Maryland have already received commissioned cost studies of alternative universal coverage plans. California this past fall legislated a task force to investigate options for universal coverage. 
   Governor Howard Dean (D) of VT (also a physician), whose state presently covers 93.5 percent of its citizens, says it well: ``It is my view that health insurance ought to be universal, the right of every citizen in Vermont.'' And there is bipartisan support in Vermont. ``Health care is not a partisan issue in Vermont,'' state Sen. John Bloomer (R) said, adding that ``it's a bipartisan goal to expand health care access and affordability.'' 
   The Health Security for All Americans Act is a plan for a big change. It builds on the momentum going on in the states of this great Nation. 
   So I decided that rather than trying to tell people how I thought the system should work, what I needed to do was first, to set out what I have found are the common goals of the American people: universal affordable comprehensive health coverage; and second to provide federal matching funds for each state to reach those goals in the way that best fits the needs of that state. 
   So, let me tell you about the Health Security for All Americans Act. 
   First, it is based on the premise that every American--not just everyone in this chamber, but every American--is entitled to have health care coverage as good as the Congress gets. Every Federal employee has that right. Why shouldn't every other American? 
   Second, it is based on the premise that good health care must be affordable. Americans should not go broke trying to keep their bodies fixed. From my experience traveling around the country, Americans all across the income spectrum are willing to be responsible for an affordable fair share of the cost of coverage and care, and a growing number of polls show that a majority of Americans are willing to pay higher taxes so that all Americans will have health coverage. Under the Health Security for All Americans Act, a family's financial responsibilities for health care is based on a percentage of family income. At the lowest end of the income scale, families would be responsible for no more than one-half of 1 percent of family income, so they can have quality health care, and a roof over their head, and 3 square meals a day. While at the higher end of the income scale, families would be responsible for no more than 5 percent or 7 percent of family income. For example, under the Health Security for All Americans Act, a family of four with an annual income of $25,000 would be responsible for no more than $11 a month in total health care costs, while a family of four with $50,000 in annual income would have the security of knowing that its total out-of-pocket health care spending (premiums and cost sharing) could not exceed 5 percent of family income or $2500 per year. 
   Third, it's based on the premise that you have to have access to care when you or your family needs it. That is why the Health Security for All Americans Act includes the Norwood-Dingell Patient Bill of Rights that has been endorsed by over 300 health care organizations. 
   Fourth, it's based on the premise that good health care delivery doesn't just happen. It depends on a well trained, well compensated health care workforce that doesn't have to constantly worry about where the next dollar is coming from. And I am referring to doctors and nurses and orderlies and home health workers, and nursing home workers--all health care workers. If we are going to deliver humane dignified health care to everyone in this country, we need to start by treating the health care workforce with dignity and respect and that starts with affordable health care for all workers. That is why the Health Security for All Americans Act includes health care quality, patient safety, and workforce standards.  
   My experience has taught me that Americans agree with these premises. They want high quality, affordable health care as good as Congress gets, but they are not sure the best way to get there. That is why the Health Security for All Americans Act is a federal state partnership that says here is what Americans want; you--the states--design the plan you want to get your state there; and we the federal government will provide the majority of the funds you need to reach that goal in the manner you chose. 
   States that submit plans early and achieve universal coverage are rewarded with increased federal dollars for their efforts. But all states must have plans in force within four years and coverage for all their residents within five years. States could reach these goals in a variety of ways: with an employer mandate, with a combination of public and private initiatives, with single payer, or some other method. I think this is a good approach because it allows the states flexibility, but it clearly sets out a fair and just goal: Universal coverage; comprehensive benefits as good as Congress gets; quality care guaranteed with patient protections; real income protections; and honoring of health care workers. I am proud today to be introducing the Health Security for All Americans Act and I am proud that this legislation has the backing and support of the Service Employees International Union, America's largest health care union. 
   To my colleagues I say, together we can put universal health care back on the front burner where it belongs. 
   We all know that in 1994, the effort to bring health care coverage to all Americans failed. All of us have heard the reasons why. But what we haven't answered is why did we give up when we knew this was the right thing to do? Why have we become so timid? Why have we only been willing to take half steps? 
   We must not shrink from the task at hand! America's doctors and nurses know how to cure disease better than anywhere else in the world. Well, now it is time to treat America's worst malady--45 million uninsured Americans, and millions more underinsured Americans who are spending far too much of their monthly pay check on health care costs. 
   Martin Luther King, Jr. rightly said, ``Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.'' All the doctors and all the nurses and all the other health care providers in America cannot solve this problem nor right this injustice, but we in the Congress can. 
   This is a problem that isn't going away on its own, but there is a solution. So to my colleagues, I say, ``Join me in sponsoring the Health Security for All Americans Act.'' And to members of the American public who are listening, I ask you to join thousands of your fellow citizens who have already written to Members of Congress, and call and write your Senators and Representatives and ask them to join in bringing quality, affordable health care coverage to all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Katherine Ostrum and Ben Wurtmann be granted the privilege of the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to waive the Budget Act and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 
   since its passage in 1997, the BBA has drastically cut Medicare payments in the areas of hospital, home health and skilled nursing care services, among others. 
   While the reductions were originally estimated at around $100 billion over five years, recent figures put the actual cuts in Medicare payments at over $100 billion. 
   These cuts have consequences. Beneficiaries with medically complex needs face increase difficulty in accessing skilled nursing care. Hospital discharge planners have greater difficulty obtaining home health services for Medicare beneficiaries as a result of the BBA. Rural Hospital margins have dropped four percentage points continuing a dangerous trend that threatens access to care in rural America. 
   Last year, Congress acknowledged that the Medicare savings that resulted from the 1997 Balanced Budget Act went far beyond what we intended, and passed the Balanced Budget Refinement Act (BBRA) but it didn't go nearly far enough. 
   With actual cuts in payment of $200 billion from the BBA, the BBRA reversed at best only 10% of these actual cuts in payment to providers caused by the BBA, 
   My state of Minnesota has been hit very hard by the BBA cuts, and last year's fix hasn't stopped the pain. As I said when I voted against the BBA, the cuts are too harsh and they will hurt our health care system. Both urban safety net hospitals and rural hospitals are feeling the pain. They are cutting back services, they are short staffed, like the hospital in Aurora, MN are faced with closing if they can't find a way to restructure so that their reliance on Medicare is not so great. 
   My colleagues should be aware that in rural Minnesota typically 70% of the revenue for rural hospitals is from Medicare and Medicaid. Hospitals are often the largest employers in these communities and new businesses won't locate in a community if it doesn't have a hospital. You can't blame them. 
   In addition these hospitals are critical to the tourism industry, which in my state is made up largely of mom and pop resorts, restaurants, lodges, canoe outfitters, fishing guides, cross country ski lodges as well as the downhill ski areas, snow mobile trails, vendors who cater to hunters and fishermen and women, bicyclists who use our state trails, the list is a long one. 
   When these folks become sick or are injured while out in the wilderness, on the water, on the ski hill or while hunting, they need a local hospital to treat their injury or illness. In our state of Minnesota these front line health care providers are small rural hospitals in communities like Cook, Grand Marais, Ely and Teo Harbors. We can't fly out all the people with broken bones or heart attacks during a blizzard, or in the fog. We need hospitals there to provide the care. 
   Northwestern Minnesota has been hit again by flooding this year. I don't know how many years in a row this has happened. We need health care there in these communities for farm families who are struggling with the farm economy, the weather and a health care crisis in their family. The hospitals in Northwestern Minnesota are on the razors edge of staying open. These BBA cuts hit them hard and hurt them badly. 
   Southwestern Minnesota is a part of my state that relies on the farm economy. When families are not making any money at farming like this year and last year, whether it be collapsed hog prices, milk, or grain prices, through no fault of their own they don't have money to buy good insurance, the counties' revenue from property taxes that supports the rural county hospitals can't keep up and if Medicare isn't there with a fair level of reimbursement, they face the possibility of closing as well. 
   There has been a tremendous number of closings in home health care in Minnesota. The cuts we made were extreme. People who could be taken care of at home are now kept longer in the more costly hospital setting simply because there is no one to provide the home care. 
   But let me focus on the White Community Hospital in Aurora, Minnesota. This is a hospital that serves an iron ore mining community in Northeast Minnesota. The miners in this community and others in communities across Minnesota's iron range mined the ore that was turned into steel and built our cites in the twentieth century, made the cars, and the rails. They are the hear and soul of America. They or their parents came to this country, fleeing oppression in many European countries, they have a strong patriotism, a powerful work ethic and a community second to none in the United States. When I visited them last week to hear about the struggle they are engaged in to keep their hospital open I didn't over promise, but I did promise I would do everything I could to help them in their fight. And I will. The BBA is hurting them. It is an anchor around the neck of their hospital. They are fighting for their hospital and we can't turn our back on them. 
   I have co-sponsored numerous pieces of legislation to restore additional funds to Medicare providers, but what we need is comprehensive BBA relief and our constituents, our hospitals, our nursing homes, and our home health agencies cannot wait. 
   When Medicare fails to pay its share, it threatens health care for all patients. Reduced Medicare payments are contributing to decisions by many providers and insurers that threaten Medicare beneficiaries' access to care, including staff layoffs, reductions in services, or even outright facility closures or decisions to withdraw from the Medicare program. As we all know, entire communities suffer when such actions take place. 
   We need comprehensive and substantial relief for community hospitals, teaching hospitals, rural hospitals, home health agencies, and skilled nursing facilities, among others--and we need it now, before Congress adjourns before the August recess. 
   This amendment simply sates that it is the sense of the Senate that by the end of the 106th Congress, Congress shall revisit and restore a substantial portion of the reductions in Medicare payments to providers caused by enactment of the BBA of 1997 
   I wish to let colleagues know that I am going to call for a vote on an amendment Monday evening that deals with the drastic reduction of Medicare payments in the areas of hospital and home health care, and also skilled nursing care. 
   In 1997, we passed the balanced budget amendment, and the reductions in Medicare over a 5-year period were estimated to be around $100 billion. The recent figure is going to be about $200 billion. 
   Last year, we tried to do a ``fix,'' and we passed what was called the Balanced Budget Refinement Act. But basically what it did was restore about 10 percent of the actual cuts that we have made. I could say this in a more complete way, but what I want to do right now is just say to colleagues that my amendment is going to deal with these cuts. Either it is going to be a sense of the Senate that says by the end of the session, we have to restore some of this assistance, some of this money to our providers and to our patients and to the consumers, and/or I could have another amendment that says if we do not do that, there needs to be a freeze in the cuts. 
   I am sure the Presiding Officer has heard of this in Alabama. I think you hear it in Nevada. I hear it in Minnesota. You hear it all across the country. In Minnesota, especially in our rural communities, whether it is White Hospital in the Iron Range in the White Lakes, whether it is southwest Minnesota, whether it is west central Minnesota, especially in our rural communities--we are going to lose these hospitals. They lost anywhere from 50 to 70 percent of their payment on Medicaid and Medicare. 
   Colleagues, in 1997, I don't know what we were thinking when we voted for this. I think it was a big mistake. I did not vote for it. Others voted for it in good faith. Right now, what we are hearing is that these hospitals are not going to be able to provide the care. They are going to go under. These nursing homes are not going to be able to make it. We have seen severe cuts and cutbacks of services in home health care. 
   The point is this: Yes, it is true the hospitals and nursing homes are important employers in these communities, so there are jobs. Yes, it is true the same thing could be said for home health care. But the worst part of it is we are talking about a dramatic decline in the quality of care for people.  In a lot of communities, especially in rural America, this is the death knell for our communities. It is hard enough for people to struggle to earn a decent living, but people can't stay in the communities if there is not good health care and if there is not good education available. Right now, we do not have that, if these hospitals shut down. 
   This amendment is an amendment that speaks to these cuts. It will be an amendment based upon many meetings I have had with community people all across Minnesota. I think it is an amendment that all my colleagues, hopefully, will support because when Medicare does not pay its share, it is a threat to the health care for patients and it also has a dramatic negative effect on our communities as well. 
   I want to bring this to the attention of colleagues. I hope there will be a strong vote for this amendment. There is some discussion we are not going to do anything about this. But we never should have voted for cuts that are this severe. This has had just the harshest consequences. It was a mistake and we have to restore this funding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to bring something to the attention of the Senate today. Even though most Senators are gone, I want to do this because I think it should be done in as public a way as possible. I bring to the attention of colleagues a piece in the New York Times. It is a front-page story, ``Colombians Tell of Massacre, as Army Stood By.'' 
   When you read this story, there will be tears in your eyes. I don't know whether they will be tears of sadness or tears of anger. I will read just the first few paragraphs: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. We just voted, with essentially no strings attached, to be involved in a military operation in Colombia with the money going for a military operation, to a military that does not lift a finger while these paramilitary death squads go in and massacre innocent people. I say to Senators, Democrats and Republicans, this is no longer Colombia's business. This is our business because we now have provided the money for just such a military, which is complicit, not only in human rights violations--I spoke about this on the floor of the Senate--but in this particular case in the murder of innocent people, including small children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I conclude this letter:  
   During this debate surrounding Plan Colombia, the Administration and the Colombian government pledged to work to reduce the production and supply of cocaine while protecting human rights. The continuing reports of human rights abuses in Colombia confirm my grave reservations regarding the Administration's ability to effectively manage the use of the resources that will be provided while protecting the human rights of Colombian citizens. To that end I respectfully seek answers to the following questions. 
   I respectfully seek answers to the following questions from Secretary Albright. 
   No. 1, How will the Administration ensure a vetting process guaranteeing that Colombians indirectly facilitating human rights violations, as well as those accused of direct violations, will not serve in battalions being trained by the United States military? 
   I want an answer to that question from the Secretary of State. 
   No. 2, What will the Administration do to ensure that the alleged murderers and human rights abuses in El Salado are investigated, and that those responsible are prosecuted? 
   No. 3, How will the Administration address the needs of the victims at El Salado, including the nearly 3,000 residents displaced by the incident?  
   Mr. President, I want to conclude by thanking my colleague, Senator BRYAN, for his graciousness, but also by saying to Senators, again, this front-page story--and I just wrote the administration about another massacre just a few days ago in Colombia--this is our business. 
   We support this government. We are supporting the military operation in the south. We are supporting this military with this kind of record, complicity in this kind of slaughter of innocent people. 
   I hope Secretary Albright will respond to this letter in an expeditious way. I will continue to come to the floor of the Senate and speak out about what is going on in Colombia. Senator DURBIN is very concerned. Senator REED is very concerned. Senator BIDEN is very concerned. He had a different position on this Colombia aid package. All should speak out, whatever our vote was on this legislation, because this is our business. This is being done, if not directly, indirectly, in our name. 
   I thank my colleague from Nevada. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do we have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, one thing about this god-awful process is there is not enough time to talk about this legislation. I will take less than 2 minutes, and my colleague from Louisiana will have 2 minutes. 
   Senator DODD outlined this amendment. Both of us have worked in this area. I think making this tax credit refundable is hugely important. I think the fact that some of the money applies to parents who are at home is hugely important. I think going up from $10,000 to $30,000 and then up from $30,000 to $60,000 cuts across 
   a broad section of the population. 
   I have no doubt that 99.9 percent of the people in Minnesota, if given the choice between the tax break our Republican colleagues are talking about, the estate tax break that goes to the wealthiest 2 or 3 percent of the population, versus a focus on helping families with child care expenses, working families and low-income families--I want to use that label as well--would say let's put the money into child care. That is what this amendment calls for. 
   This is just a matter of priorities. It is just crazy to be talking about this giveaway to the wealthiest 2 or 3 percent and not making the investment in affordable child care for families in our States. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the pending order of business is amendment No. 3772. I can be very brief. 
   First, I thank my colleague, Senator GRAMS, for joining me in this effort. We have two amendments, I believe. I say to my colleague from Minnesota, I also join him in his effort. 
   We are both focused on the same question: a storm that happens about once every thousand years, a massive blowdown in northern Minnesota. We are both committed to helping get to the Forest Service the necessary resources to deal with the massive blowdown. There is a lot of important work to be done. This storm has been a nightmare for our State. One very positive outcome of the storm is the way in which the people in Minnesota have come together. 
   I thank Senator GORTON and Senator BYRD for accepting this amendment. It would restore about $7.2 million needed in emergency funding. It is critically important, and I thank my colleagues for their support. People in northern Minnesota will appreciate their support as well. 
   I say to Senator GRAMS, I have to leave the floor soon, but I also support the amendment he is introducing. I have another engagement. I am proud to be a cosponsor on that amendment with my colleague. 
   It is my understanding this amendment will be approved. I wonder whether we could now voice vote it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am sorry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask my colleague from Washington whether we can voice vote my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Washington and my colleague from Minnesota for their help. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. I am very proud to have worked with Senator DURBIN to be a cosponsor and have Senator KERRY here on the floor as well. 
   I think this important amendment requiring more realistic testing of the national missile system is an extremely important step for us to take. First of all, it requires more realistic testing. Second, it calls for the reconvening of the Welch commission to independently evaluate the testing program. Third, it requires a report to the Congress on the adequacy of the program. 
   This is the fourth time since the late fifties that we have talked about a missile defense program. Each time there is a tremendous amount of enthusiasm. Then scientists and independent observers do a careful analysis. After that, the enthusiasm wanes. I do not believe this time will be any different. 
   I am sure every Senator read on Sunday morning that this past Saturday's test was an utter failure. What you may not know is that an earlier test was unsuccessful as well. But regardless of the actual successes and failures of the tests, the fact is, the current testing program does not test the feasibility of the system in the real world. Current testing determines whether or not the system works against cooperative targets on a test range. This methodology is insufficient to determine the technological feasibility of the system against likely threats. At present, even if the tests had been hailed as total successes, they would have proved nothing more than the system is unproven against real threats. At present, we know that this system might work if the other side is not making it hard to detect its weapons. This hardly seems a reason to move forward to deployment. 
   Some might argue that this amendment demands too much. Some might argue that today's testing program is a first step in a long process towards full deployment. But demanding an adequate testing program, which is what this amendment calls for, certainly does not put the bar too far. It sets it where any reasonable person or scientist would put it. We must stick to development and work within the confines of a realistic test before even considering moving to deployment. 
   The aim of the national missile defense is to defend the United States from limited attacks by intercontinental-range ballistic missiles armed with nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons. However, biological or chemical weapons can be divided into many small warheads called submunitions. These submunitions could overwhelm the planned defense, and more importantly, because some munitions allow for more effective dispersal of biological and chemical agents, an attacker would have a strong incentive to use them even in the absence of missile defenses. When it comes to biological warfare and these biological and chemical agents, the greater likelihood is that they will be carried by suitcase into this country. I pray that doesn't happen. 
   Current testing does not take countermeasures into account. An attack could overwhelm the system by using something as simple as ballooned decoys, for example, by deploying nuclear weapons inside balloons and releasing numerous empty balloons 
   along with them. Or an attacker could cover its nuclear warheads with cooled shrouds which would prevent the interceptor from detecting it. We are talking about testing which takes into account these countermeasures. That is what we would have to deal with. 
   Current testing does not take these countermeasures into account. The Pentagon assessment will consider only whether the first phase of the system would be effective against a threat with no credible countermeasures. It will not consider whether the full system would be effective against a threat with realistic countermeasures. Any decision on whether or not the United States should deploy a national missile defense should take into account how effective that system is likely to be in the real world, not just whether or not it works against cooperative targets on a test range. 
   Unfortunately, the technological feasibility of the proposed national defense system, which will be determined in the Pentagon's upcoming deployment readiness review, will be assessed precisely on the basis of such test results. Even worse, it will be based upon only a few tests. 
   The administration requested that the Pentagon provide an estimate of whether a national missile defense can be deployed in 5 year's time. General Kadish, the head of the Pentagon's ballistic missile defense program, has described the 2005 timetable as ``high risk.'' He has made it clear that the timetable is much faster than military planners would like. The recommendation of the Pentagon's own Office of the Operational and Test Evaluation Program stated clearly that the deployment readiness review ``is a strongly `schedule driven' approach'' rather than one based upon results. 
   Is it too much to ask that we be certain that this system works before we move ahead with deployment? 
   That is what this amendment is about. 
   If the proposed national missile defense system is to have any possibility of enhancing U.S. security, it must work, and it must work well. At present, the evidence isn't there to prove that it does, and the tests underway to establish that proof are simplified and unrealistic. We must demand that any deployment decision on national missile defense be postponed until the system has been tested successfully against real-world realistic threats. 
   Last year, I voted against a resolution urging the administration to make a decision to deploy a national missile defense system. I believed then, as I do now, that a decision to deploy before a decision is made there needs to be a careful evaluation of the effectiveness of the system. 
   I also believe that we need to look at this in the context of overall U.S. security needs. The goal should be to increase U.S. security--not to undermine it. Deploying a system now, I fear, does the opposite. It threatens to disrupt the current arms control regimen and undermine the credibility of our commitment to nonproliferation. 
   Deployment of a national missile defense system would be a violation of the ABM Treaty. Are we prepared to discard this arms control regimen? I worry--and I think every Senator, Democrat and Republican alike, worries--about proliferation of these weapons of mass destruction. If this regimen of arms control breaks down with Russia--and, perhaps even more importantly, breaks down with China, then there is India, then there is Pakistan, then there is South Korea, then there is 
   Japan--I fear the direction in which we are moving. 
   Colleagues, for 40 years the United States of America has led international efforts to reduce and contain the danger from nuclear weapons. We must not now renounce the responsibilities of that leadership with a hasty and shortsighted decision that will have lasting consequences. We must answer a number of questions before we proceed: 
   Does it make sense to unilaterally deploy a system now if the result might be to put the American people at even greater risk? 
   Should we take the time to work with allies and others to find a mutually acceptable nonthreatening way of proceeding? 
   Have the threats to which we are responding been exaggerated and more driven by politics than accurate threat assessments and hard science? 
   Is the technology there to deploy a system that would actually work in the real world? 
   This amendment speaks directly to that last question. 
   I urge my colleagues to demand to know more about the complexities of a national missile defense system prior to deploying that system. I don't think that is an unreasonable request. 
   The failure of Saturday's test is only a fraction of the real story. Even a successful test would prove nothing given the current testing conditions. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment requiring a more realistic testing of the national missile defense system, reconvening the Welch panel to independently evaluate a testing program, and requiring a report to the Congress on the adequacy of the program. 
   We should not commit ourselves blindly to a program that can cost billions of dollars and could very well decrease our overall security rather than  to enhance it. 
   Our future and our children's children's future could depend on the decision we make on this amendment. Let's do the right thing. I hope we can have a strong vote on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague I can't imagine the Secretary of Defense doing that, either. My plea was to Senators. I said we must not proceed blindly and I urge all Members to understand the complexity of this testing and to at least call for a thorough evaluation to make sure that this system will really work. My comments were not directed to Secretary Cohen. 
   I also say to my colleague, I don't believe the Secretary of Defense has made a final recommendation to the President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. In light of the failure of this past week, I don't know what the Secretary's decision will be. 
   I think all Members are just making the reasonable request that before we go forward with deployment, let's have the kind of operational testing that will prove that this system will work in the real world against credible threats, and let's have an independent evaluation by the Welch commission and have at least a report to the Congress. 
   That is what I am referring to, I say to my colleague from Virginia. I am glad he asked the question. In no way would I direct these comments toward the Secretary of Defense. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I probably need not respond. I appreciate 
   my colleague's comments. 
   One final comment in response to his comments. One of the things I have liked best about preparing for this amendment for me as a Senator has been the way I imagined Senate work to be. I tried to immerse myself on this issue and get the best security briefings from the Pentagon, get other briefings from other people in the Pentagon, and talked to a whole range of experts. The Welch Commission report is a very interesting report. 
   This amendment certainly says we need to make absolutely sure that we are involved in the kind of testing that will show this system will work before we move forward. That is true. That is certainly the premise of this amendment. I think this is a reasonable premise. Senators ought to raise these kinds of questions. That is why we are here. That is why I think this amendment is important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I also thank the chairman for making this a very important substantive debate. I thank the ranking minority member. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from California. I think it would be a good idea if we could work out an order, and I am pleased to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, I wonder whether I could ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak since I have been here all morning, when we come back from the break. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me, first of all, mention to colleagues when we look at this estate tax bill, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities--and I think their work has been impeccable--points out that fewer than 1.9 percent of the 2.3 million people who died in 1997 had any tax levied on their estates. We are talking about 1.9 percent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Last week, President Clinton pointed out the cost of this repeal, helping the top wealthiest 2 percent of our population. It amounts to $100 billion over the first 10 years and then $750 billion over the next decade. 
   I will speak for some period of time, and I know other Senators will speak as well, about what we could be doing and should be doing instead of repealing this inheritance tax helping the top 2 percent of the population. 
   Instead of this repeal helping the top 2 percent of the population, we could help renew our national vow of equal opportunity for every child. We could start by making sure families in our country are helped with affordable child care. I can't think of a more important issue, especially for younger working families. I don't know how many times in Minnesota, or anywhere I go in the country, I have people coming up to me--maybe they make $40,000 a year or $35,000 a year, and the child care expenses range anywhere from $6,000 a year to $12,000 a year. We could have a refundable tax credit. It could be for families under $30,000. You could put it on a sliding fee scale basis. We could go up to $30,000, $40,000, $50,000 a year, which would help families afford child care. Why don't we do that? 
   The Federal Government--that means the Senate, that means the House of Representatives--could be a real player in pre-K education. By the way, child care--whether a family provider, whether in a child care center, or whether or not a child is at home with a parent--is all about education. Those children who are able to receive developmental child care, who were nurtured, who were intellectually stimulated, will come to kindergarten ready to learn and they will do well. 
   For many families, and not only low-income families, this is a salient issue. The way this is drafted right now, going to the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, we could--and I intend to have an amendment that focuses on this--have some tax credits that go to families so they can afford child care. 
   This is an emergency situation in many of our States. At best, 20 percent of the children in 20 percent of these families are receiving any help whatsoever. There was a powerful piece in the Washington Post last weekend talking about the fact that not only can families not afford this, but there is almost a 40-percent turnover of child care providers every year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, instead of the repeal of the inheritance tax going to the wealthiest 2 percent, we could provide some tax credit assistance for working families so they could better afford child care for their children. Why can't we do that? 
   The evidence is irrefutable. The evidence is irreducible. These are the critically important years. Families in our States tell us how important this is. What are we doing moving forward on repealing an inheritance tax for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, not targeting it to family farmers and  small businesses but across the board, instead of using some of this money--$100 billion over the first 10 years, but $750 billion over the second 10 years--to make sure families in our country can afford good child care for their children? 
   By the way, even when I talk about tax credits invested in affordable child care, it breaks my heart because this will not even be near enough. The truth is, we have to get serious about good developmental child care, and that means men and women who work in this field should not make $8 an hour or $6 an hour with no benefits at all, but we should value the work of adults who work with children; that we not continue to pay men and women who work in child care centers half of what we pay men and women who work in zoos taking care of animals. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, I am absolutely confident that I am reflecting the priorities of Minnesotans when I say repeal of this estate tax, now crafted in such a way that it goes to the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans, is hardly a priority for people in Minnesota or people in the country. I would prefer to see us make the investment in child care. I intend to offer an amendment that deals with additional tax credits which will provide help for working families. 
   I will not use statistics, but every Senator, Democratic and Republican, knows intuitively that in today's economy, one of the most important indicators of whether or not a young person--or not such young person, since many of our students are no longer 18 and 19 living in a dorm but they are 40 and 50 years of age going back to school--can succeed is whether or not they are able to complete higher education. Yet we have this huge gap between the number of young people, or not such young people, from low- and moderate-income backgrounds who are able to complete college versus those who come from upper-income or upper-middle-income families, and it is because of the cost of higher education. 
   We have not fully funded the Pell Grant Program where we get the most bang for the buck, and when we passed the Hope Scholarship Program and said there would be a $1,500 tax credit for students to afford the first 2 years of school, it was not a refundable tax credit. So for a lot of the students in the community colleges in Minnesota, if they come from families with incomes under $30,000 a year, $28,000 a year, they do not get any benefit because it is not a refundable tax credit. 
   What could we be doing instead of moving forward on an agenda that repeals this inheritance tax that benefits the wealthiest 2 percent of the population? What we could do instead is provide refundable tax credits for our students so they can afford to go on to colleges and universities and do better for themselves and do better for their children. I say better for their children because, again, I have reached the conclusion, having spent a lot of time on campuses in Minnesota, that the nontraditional students have become the traditional 
   students, and probably the majority of our students are now in their thirties and forties with children going back to school so they can do better for their kids. 
   Are we committed to education? Here is where we could be a player. Instead of repeal of this estate tax that the majority party wants us to move forward on, why are we not talking about a commitment to education? Why are we not, as Senators, making a difference where we can make a difference? 
   Yes, we can make a difference in kindergarten through 12th grade, but we can make a huge difference, it is our role to make a difference prekindergarten: to make a commitment to affordable child care so children coming into kindergarten are ready to learn; to make sure every child has an opportunity to do well; to make sure our students can go on and afford higher education so they can do better by themselves. 
   Why are we not making this commitment to education? What are we doing out here, trying to move forward this piece of legislation that is going to cost $100 billion over the first decade and then up to $750 billion over the next decade, with all of this money and all of these benefits flowing, roughly speaking, to the wealthiest 2 percent of the population? I have a bill, as does BARNEY FRANK in the House of Representatives, that basically says: What we can do is agree that we are talking about, by definition, very wealthy Americans; that we are trying to repeal this inheritance tax. We are saying--and I quote Barney Frank--``If you're old, rich, and dead, we're with you. If you're old, sick, and middle class, you're out of luck.'' I do not know that I would put it quite that way, but basically we could take this $750 billion over the second 10 years, $100 billion over the first 10 years, and finance prescription drug benefits so seniors will be able to afford prescription drugs. 
   I come from a State where fully 65 percent of senior citizens have no prescription drug coverage at all. All of us can talk about people who are spending up to $300, $400, $500 a month to cover prescription drug costs, and maybe their total monthly budget right now, based upon what benefits they have, is $1,000 or $1,200. We can talk about people who cut pills in half, though that is dangerous. We can talk about people who are faced with the choice: Can I afford prescription drugs or can I afford to eat but not both? 
   What in the world are we doing trying to proceed on a piece of legislation which is not at all targeted, which provides huge benefits, which basically busts our budget and robs our ability to invest in other decisive areas that are so important to people in our States and provides the benefits to the wealthiest 2 percent? 
   This debate is really a debate about our priorities and, and I will draw a bit from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities: 
   In 1997, the estates of fewer than 43,000 people--fewer than 1.9 percent of the 2.3 million people who died that year--had to pay any estate tax. That is 1.9 percent, roughly speaking, among the wealthiest 2 percent in the United States of America. It is going to cost us $100 billion over the first 10 years, and it is going to cost us $750 billion over the next 10 years. 
   You know what. If we had an unlimited amount of money, and we did not have other needs--such as affordable child care, making sure we have health security for families, making sure people have a pension, making sure young people and not so young people can go on and afford higher education, and making sure families can do well by their kids so they can do well by their country--I might be all for it. 
   But what about these other decisive needs? Don't they come first? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from California. I actually would like to comment on her point in two ways. 
   First of all, let me point out, right now the total exemption for most estates that include a family-owned business is $1.3 million in 2000. That is what it has gone up to. A 
   couple can exempt up to $2.6 million of an estate that includes a family-owned business or farm. 
   I would have no problem further targeting that. I do not think my colleague from California would, either. But the proposal out on the floor by the Republican majority--a sort of across-the-board repeal that amounts to $850 billion of lost revenue over the next 20 years--has to be considered alongside what we are about as a nation, what we are about as a people. I think the Senator from California speaks to the whole question of community. 
   My definition of community is that we all do better when we all do better. The interesting thing is that many people in Minnesota who are economically very successful--I do not know if they are the wealthiest 2 percent; I can think of some for whom I think I can speak who would say: Look, in all due respect, in terms of the scheme of your priorities, my gosh, get it right first for children. Get it right by way of helping families and helping children. Get it right by investing in education. 
   We now have 44 million people with no health insurance whatsoever. We have probably twice that number who are underinsured. We have senior citizens for which Medicare does not pay for prescription drug benefits in many of our States, or cover very little of it, who are faced with those expenses. We have a lot of elderly people--we do not talk about this much--who are terrified that they are going to have to go to the poorhouse before anybody will help them with catastrophic expenses, if, God forbid, they can't live at home. 
   Right now--my colleague from Wisconsin knows this well; this has been one of his priorities--we have not put anywhere near the resources we should put into assisted living so people can stay at home and live as near a normal circumstance as possible. That is a big family issue. 
   Let's think about this for a moment. From little children--under 4 feet tall, who are beautiful, all of them--to people who are elderly and are having a hard time paying their health care bills, and especially at the very end of their lives, who are frail and are wondering can they stay at home and live with dignity and wondering who will help them, or if, God forbid, they have to be in a nursing home because of Alzheimer's disease or whatever the case may be, that across the board we have not made the investment. 
   There is a lot we need to do as a nation. These are important priorities, not only for our country, not only for California or Minnesota. That isn't the right way to say it. These are important family values. I say to Senator BOXER from California, what I am asking is: Where are our priorities that focus on family values? 
   To me, it is a family value to come out and talk about tax credits or a direct investment of money to make sure child care is affordable. It is a family value to make sure people, at the end of their lives, or toward the end of their lives, who have worked hard and have built this country, should not have to be in terror that there won't be anybody to help them stay at home, or, if they are in a nursing home, nobody to help them with their expenses. 
   The United States of America--I love this country--is the only country where you have to go to the poorhouse before you are eligible for any help--Medicaid, Medicare assistance. Clearly, as a nation, in terms of our own 
   priorities, we are going to have to start valuing the work of adults who work with children. We are going to have to start valuing the work of adults who work with elderly people. We pay them $6 or $7 or $8 an hour, with no health care benefits. This cannot be done on the cheap. 
   We have all these challenges. We are talking about $100 billion the first 10 years, and then the second 10 years, $750 billion. That is what this costs to provide a blank check benefit to the wealthiest 2 percent of the population. 
   We have all these challenges before us in terms of Medicare, in terms of Social Security, in terms of making sure there is health security for families, in terms of making sure we get it right for our kids. They are the ones who we are going to be asking a lot of by the year 2020. 
   In the words of Rabbi Hillel: If not now, when? If we can't invest in our children now, when will we? If we can't invest in the health and the skills and the intellect of our children now, when will we ever do that? 
   So I say to my colleagues, I just mention one amendment which I hope to be able to bring to the floor on this bill, which will talk about rather than all of these benefits just going to the wealthiest 2 percent, how about an additional refundable tax credit to help families afford child care expenses? 
   I say to my colleague from California, and other colleagues as well, I am for patient protection, I am for passing legislation that provides not only patient protection but provides caregivers protection. Demoralized caregivers are not good caregivers. I think doctors and nurses ought to be in the kind of position to practice medicine the way they thought they could when they were in nursing or medical school. 
   But the other issue is all the people who fall between the cracks who have no health security. I am amazed that universal health care coverage is not back on the table. I do not believe for a moment that the United States of America, the wealthiest country in the world, with a booming economy, and record surpluses at the moment, cannot provide health security for American citizens, for families in this country. 
   You can't have it all ways. If my Republican colleagues want to come out and say their priority is to provide a great tax benefit for the wealthiest 2 percent of the population, which is going to cost us $850 billion over the next 20 years, then not only are we not going to be able to do right by Medicare, not only are we not going to be able to provide prescription drug costs, but we are not even going to begin to be able to talk about how we reach the goal of health security for every American citizen, for all the families in this country. 
   What are our priorities? Instead of moving forward on this piece of legislation, we ought to be focusing on health security for American citizens. Not that we need to look to the polls to give us guidance, but not surprisingly, along with education, health security for families and citizens, emerge as top issues. 
   I will mention two other issues in terms of what we could be doing and what we should be doing, instead of repealing the estate tax blanket repeal, across the board, benefits going to the wealthiest 2 percent of the population. I think I speak for every Senator, Democrat and Republican, on this one. In 1997, we passed what was called the Balanced Budget Act. Some people voted for it; some people voted against it. I am glad I voted against it. Different people vote different ways. If it wasn't then, it is crystal clear now that what we have done to the Medicare reimbursement by so dramatically cutting it has had a catastrophic effect on our hospitals and on our nursing homes, especially in our rural communities. 
   I attended a recent gathering at White Hospital in Hoyt Lakes, up on the Iron Range. Hospitals in a State such as Minnesota, where we don't have the fat in the system, do not make excessive profits at all. They are going to go under. We are going to have more and more hospital closings. These hospitals are community institutions. These hospitals are important to communities, not only because rural America doesn't do well; when people are trying to decide if they want to live in a rural community, they want to know whether they can afford to live in the community: will there be a job at a decent wage? Can they afford to farm? Are they going to get a decent price? 
   The second thing they want to know is whether they want to live in a rural  community. If they don't have good health care and good education, they are not going to do it. 
   Last year, we said we fixed this problem. We restored about 10 percent of the cuts. Again, I am not now talking about universal health care coverage, although I believe our country must embrace this idea. I will introduce a bill next week, working with the Service Employees International Union. It is a decentralized health insurance program. I like it a lot. I want to get it back on the agenda. I think it is important that we have a constituency to fight for it in the country. 
   I am not even talking about prescription drug benefits. I am not even talking about major reform. I am saying, I don't know how in the world we go forward with this kind of across-the-board blanket repeal with the benefits going to the wealthiest 2 percent of the population when we aren't even getting it right in terms of getting the reimbursement that our health care providers actually deserve back in our States. 
   I will mention one other issue. Senator FEINGOLD is here on the floor, along with Senator BOXER, Senator REID, and Senator BURNS. Instead of going forward with this tax scheme, 
   why aren't we dealing with a core issue: reform. Why aren't we debating campaign finance reform? There is probably a pretty strong correlation. Some of the programs I have talked about and some of the values I have talked about, the people who would most benefit are not the heavy hitters, not the givers. They are not the investors and big contributors. Clearly, the wealthiest 2 percent of the population are among the ranks of the biggest givers, although there is not a one-to-one correlation. Clearly, at the very top, many people I know in Minnesota and I think around the country think we ought to get our priorities straight. We ought to start with some of the priorities I have talked about. 
   Why aren't we dealing with reform? When are we going to get to dealing with the ways in which money has come to dominate politics? There is the McCain-Feingold bill. There is the clean money/clean election efforts in different States. I have introduced that legislation. One of the things I would like to do is to at least change three words of the Federal election code which would enable States, if they want to, to apply clean money/clean election to Federal races. If the State of Wisconsin or Minnesota said it would like to apply this to State legislative races but also to Federal races, it ought to be able to do that. 
   Whatever your own preference, I think people in our country are begging us to move forward on a reform agenda and to give them a political process in which they can believe. I think citizens in our country are yearning for politicians they can believe. They are yearning for a Senate and House of Representatives in which they can believe. They are yearning for a political process in which they can participate. Right now there is so much disillusionment and disengagement, it should worry all of us who believe in public service. I can't think of anything we could do that would be more important than to pass significant, substantive campaign finance reform, instead of a tax scheme in its present form providing the benefits to the wealthiest 2 percent. 
   Couldn't we be talking about campaign finance reform? Couldn't we be talking about renewing democracy in America? Couldn't we be talking about how to restore confidence in the Government and the political process? Couldn't we be talking about renewing our national vow of equal opportunity for every child and affordable child care? Couldn't we be talking about how to help families do well by their kids so they can do well by our country and could do well by our States? Couldn't we be talking about how to help men and women who want to go on to higher education afford higher education? Couldn't we be talking about making sure elderly people can afford prescription drugs? Couldn't we be talking about how to have more health security for people in our country? So many citizens fall in between the cracks; so many citizens feel so insecure. Couldn't we be talking about all of that and more with a booming economy and record surpluses? Couldn't we now get some resources back in the communities so our families could do better, so our children could do better, so that we all would be doing better because we all would be doing better, which is what a community is about? I think we could. That is where we ought to be focusing. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Erin Fullerton be granted the privilege of the floor during the debate today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Washington and Senator BYRD, who I know want to expedite the matter, for allowing me to speak about an amendment that I am now drafting. I want to make sure this works out well. This is in response to something, as the Senator mentioned, that is a priority for both myself and Senator GRAMS. What happened is that we in Minnesota were hit with a once-in-a-thousand-years storm, literally. It was on July 4, 1999. Over 400,000 acres in Minnesota were damaged, including the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, as well as the Gunflint Corridor, in Superior National Forest. This started in the Boundary Waters Wilderness area, which is really a national treasure. 
   What we are worried about is the blow-down to which Senator GORTON referred. We had a hearing in Grand Rapids on Friday. Senator CRAIG chaired the hearing, and I thought he did a superb job. Basically, what people are focused on right now is how to deal with this blow-down and the possibility of a conflagration. Everybody is very worried about what could happen. The Forest Service--I think there was also consensus on this--is doing a very good job. I think that is what people across the spectrum were saying. 
   What happened is we had $9.2 million in emergency funding that came out of the Senate Appropriations Committee, however we lost much of that funding when the MILCON bill got put together. The funding went from $9.2 million to $2 million. This additional $7.2 million--and I know you heard from Senator GRAMS on this as well--is critically important to us. It is important also for some of the work that the Forest Service is trying to do just by way of education. 
   It is incredible how few minor fires we have had; people have been paying very careful attention and are doing everything they can to prevent them. It also goes to the whole question of how we deal with the trees that are down and the underbrush and whether or not we can do the prescribed burns on what kind of schedule. This is critically important to my State of Minnesota. 
   So what I want to do is take 10 minutes or so to outline what we are dealing with in Minnesota, and then I will have an amendment that I will send to the desk, or I can get it to staff and Senators and see whether we can just reach some agreement. 
   Again, this was an unbelievable storm that hit our State. In many ways, what I think has happened is that it has brought Minnesotans together; it has brought the best out in people. We are talking about our beloved national forests. This is a critically important area; 400,000 acres in 7 counties were hit by a storm that damaged as much as 70 percent of the trees in certain areas and wiped out numerous rows. The damage of this storm has  presented unbelievable challenges, not only to land managers but all Minnesotans--people who depend on the national forest for their jobs, family incomes, industrial materials such as paper and pulp, and family vacations and recreation. 
   Mr. President, I do think that the Forest Service, as I said, has begun to implement a significant and important effort. In particular, what they are trying to deal with is the dead and downed timber, which is a great threat to people in the State, and really, I think, a great threat to the country because we are talking about a crown jewel wilderness area. 
   My intention is to have an amendment--we are working on it right now, drafting it in such a way that we clearly make the case for emergency funding, which I think we can. We really should have had this additional money. I want to make sure it is OK with colleagues on both sides. And then later on maybe we will have a vote or maybe it can be accepted. I hope we can get an agreement on this amendment. I wanted to signal my intention to you and 
   spell out what I want to do. 
   Mr. President, I heard my colleague refer to this blow-down amendment. I wonder whether he might respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes, but I would like to hold the floor a few more minutes. I yield temporarily. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I very much appreciate the Senator's comments. As far as I am concerned, this request should come from both Senators. I would be delighted if Senator GRAMS joined me. We will get the wording of the amendment to you. We will do this together. We want to just get it done for our State. I think the Senator from Washington can appreciate that sentiment. That is his modus operandi. I will let other Senators come forward with amendments now. I will get the amendment to you. We will have Senator GRAMS join in, and we will try to get it done on this bill. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My colleague from Missouri is very gracious and I can do this in 30 seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I call up my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000710</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment, again, is to restore $7.2 million in emergency funding. My colleague from Washington made a helpful suggestion. Senator GRAMS is coming back from Minnesota today. I believe we can do this together. I ask unanimous consent that my amendment be laid aside, and when Senator GRAMS comes back, we will talk tonight. We will both come out together. He will join me. 
   I thank my colleague from Washington and my colleague from West Virginia as well for their support. It is terribly important to get this additional money to deal with the blow-down. I thank my colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before we proceed, could I ask my colleague, is it 2 minutes equally divided or 4 minutes equally divided on each amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment reinstates the Bush administration's policy of requiring a reasonable pricing clause in the NIH drug patent licensing agreements and cooperative research agreements with pharmaceutical companies unless waived on public interest grounds. It does not apply to universities. A very similar amendment passed by a 2-to-1 margin in the House of Representatives. 
   All this says is, when it is our public dollars--taxpayer money, our constituents' money--we expect that the drug companies, when they benefit from all this, will agree to charge our constituents a reasonable price. 
   I think this is an amendment that should command widespread support. I have offered this amendment with Senator JOHNSON. It has support from the National Council of Senior Citizens, Families USA, and the Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. 
   I also want to say that I think Senator LEVIN, last night, hit the nail on the head when he said: It is bad enough that we have exorbitant prices. It is worse when we actually subsidize the research, and then we do not ask anything in return from these companies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I rise in hope that Chairman SPECTER and Ranking Member HARKIN of the Labor-HHS Appropriation Subcommittee will engage in a colloquy with myself and Senator JEFFORDS, Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, on the importance of advance funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). 
   I had initially planned to offer an amendment, with Senators JEFFORDS, KOHL, LIEBERMAN, LEVIN, SCHUMER, REED, DODD, KENNEDY, and LEAHY, that would restore advance funding for this essential program. However, since it is my understanding that my colleagues will work in the conference to ensure that the House provision for advance LIHEAP funding is included in the final appropriation bill, I will withdraw my amendment. 
   As my colleagues know, there is broad bipartisan, multi-regional support for LIHEAP. This year, 46 Senators signed a letter in support of the program. Specifically, we asked for $1.4 billion in regular LIHEAP funding, along with $300 million in emergency funding. In addition, we urged $1.5 billion in advance LIHEAP funding for fiscal year 2002. It is the lack of this advance funding in the Senate Labor-HHS appropriation bill that causes me great concern. 
   As many of my colleagues know, Minnesota is often called the ice-box of the nation, where bitterly cold weather is the norm. In fact, Minnesota is the third coldest state, in terms of heating degree days, in the country, after Alaska and North Dakota. Especially in cold-weather states like Minnesota, funding for LIHEAP is critical to families with children and vulnerable low-income elderly persons, who without it could be forced to choose between food and heat. 
   As we saw several years ago, when the Federal government shut down, piecemeal funding approved for LIHEAP had an extremely disruptive effect on the operation of the energy programs in the states. Congressional delay and enactment of appropriations bills after October 1 severely hampers states abilities to effectively plan their energy assistance programs. States operating year-round programs or those that begin in September are particularly threatened. Therefore, advance appropriations enable the creation of administrative systems for more efficient program management, allowing for orderly planning of state LIHEAP programs. 
   Will the Chairman work in conference to include this critical advance funding appropriation in the final Labor-HHS appropriation bill? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member HARKIN and Senator JEFFORDS. I appreciate your commitment to work in conference on behalf of LIHEAP, and I withdraw the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise in strong opposition to the changes that were made to ``Plan Colombia'' in the military construction conference report. As if this body did not originally give enough to the military ``Push into Southern Colombia'' with $250 million, this conference report increases that amount by $140 million, to fund a 390 million dollar first-time offensive military action in southern Colombia. 
   ``Plan Colombia'' has been added to this conference report as an emergency supplemental. We are moving it through this Congress quickly under the guise of a ``drug emergency.'' But, if there is truly a drug emergency in this country, and I believe there is, why are there no resources in this plan targeted to where they will do the most good: providing funding for drug treatment programs at home? And, honestly, if the purpose of this military aid is to stop the supply of drugs, shouldn't some of that aid target the North as well? Something strange and dishonest is going on here. 
   During our debate over ``Plan Colombia'' I heard over and over again not only how much the Colombian government needed this assistance, but also how urgently it had to have it. I heard over and over again how if Colombia did not get this money now all hope for democracy would be lost, not only in Colombia but also for many other Latin and South American countries as well. This, my colleagues, is a far cry from stopping the flow of drugs into the United States. This, my colleagues, is choosing sides in a civil war that has raged for more than thirty years. And I think the American people deserve to know this. 
   This massive increase in counternarcotics aid for Colombia this year puts the U.S. at a crossroads--do we back a major escalation in military aid to Colombia that may worsen a civil war that has already raged for decades, or do we pursue a more effective policy of stabilizing Colombia by promoting sustainable development, strengthening civilian democratic institutions, and attacking the drug market by investing in prevention and treatment at home? I see today that we have chosen the former. 
   We are choosing to align ourselves with a military that is known to have close contacts with paramilitary organizations. Paramilitary groups operating with acquiescence or open support of the military account for most of the political violence in Colombia today. In its annual report for 1999, Human Rights Watch reports: ``in 1999 paramilitary were considered responsible for 78% of the total number of human rights and international humanitarian law violations'' in Colombia. Our own 1999 State Department Country Reports on Human Rights notes that ``at times the security forces collaborated with paramilitary groups that committed abuses.'' 
   We should support Colombia during this crisis. Being tough on drugs is important, but we need to be smart about the tactics we employ. This conference report decreases by $29 million the aid this Chamber gave to support alternative development programs in Colombia. It cuts by $21 million support for human rights and judicial reform. It also cuts support for interdiction by $3.1 million. Yet, it increases by $140 million funding for the military ``Push into Southern Colombia.'' What are we doing here? Guns never have and never will solve Colombia's ills, nor will they address our drug problem here in the United States. 
   I reiterate how unbalanced ``Plan Colombia'' is in this conference report. It cuts the good and increases the bad. A more sensible approach would have been to permit extensive assistance to Colombia in the form of promoting sustainable development and strengthening civilian democratic institutions. This would have safeguarded U.S. interests in avoiding entanglement in a decades-old civil conflict, and partnership with an army implicated in severe human rights abuses. Instead, we are funding a military offensive into southern Colombia and denying resources where they would be the most effective: drug treatment programs at home. I am appalled at this strategy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from North Carolina, is he finished with his prepared remarks on his amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself and Senator JOHNSON from South Dakota. 
   I am just going to take 1 minute to summarize this amendment, I say to my colleagues, and then Senator JOHNSON will proceed, and then I will come back to the amendment. 
   Mr. President, if you just look right here at this chart, it is very interesting. Tamoxifen and Prozac are two widely used drugs. Look at the difference between what the United States citizens pay for a vial versus what people in Canada pay. 
   In our country, a United States citizen pays $241 for tamoxifen; $34 in Canada. For Prozac, in this country it is $105; in Canada, it is $43. 
   What this amendment says--and I want to go back to Bernadette Healy's leadership at NIH. What this amendment says is that what Ms. Healy did is the right thing to do, which is to say to the pharmaceutical companies, when the NIH does the research, and then the patent is handed over to a pharmaceutical company, that pharmaceutical company--since we put the taxpayer dollars into the research--should at least agree to provide citizens in this country with a decent, affordable charge; that the pharmaceutical company should agree to an affordable price or a reasonable price which is defined specifically by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
   Again, this amendment says that pharmaceutical companies that negotiate an agreement with NIH--NIH is doing the research, helping out, the drug is then developed, the pharmaceutical company now has the patent--must sign an agreement to sell the drug at a reasonable price. 
   I do not think it is unreasonable from the point of view of your constituents and my constituents, people in this country who pay the taxes and support our Government, who feel just a little bit ripped off by the prices today, that if we are going to put our taxpayer dollars into the research and into the support and then the pharmaceutical companies are going to get a patent, at the very minimum they ought to be willing to sell the drug to people in our country at a reasonable price defined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
   This amendment is all about corporate welfare at its worst. It is about being there for consumers. It is about assuring people that their taxpayer dollars are contributing toward some research that will in turn contribute toward affordable drugs for themselves and their children. 
   I yield the floor to my colleague, Senator JOHNSON of South Dakota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from South Dakota. Again, the amendment says that when the pharmaceutical companies negotiate an agreement with the NIH to develop and market a drug based on taxpayer-financed research, there must be an agreement signed by the pharmaceutical companies that they will sell the drug at a reasonable price. 
   This is an eminently reasonable amendment. This amendment does not cover extramural NIH research grants, such as grants to universities. It does not cover grants to universities. It does not establish a health care price control scheme. 
   This amendment will reinstate the Bush administration's reasonable pricing clause which was in effect from 1989 to 1995. This amendment directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to determine what is a reasonable price. This amendment gives the Secretary flexibility to waive the pricing clause if it is in the public interest to do so. 
   As my colleague from South Dakota pointed out, a similar amendment, which was introduced by Congressmen SANDERS, ROHRABACHER, DEFAZIO, and others passed the House of Representatives by a 3-to-1 margin, 313 to 109. It is because people in the country feel ripped off by this industry. People in the country believe that the prices should be more reasonable. Certainly our constituents believe that if we are going to be funding some of the research and these companies are going to benefit from our taxpayer dollars, then there ought to be an agreement that these companies are going to be willing to charge us a reasonable price. That is not too much to ask. 
   This amendment is supported by Families U.S.A., the National Council of Senior Citizens, and the Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will quote from Ron Pollack, executive director of Families U.S.A.:  
   Currently, once NIH has successfully developed a new drug it signs over the commercial rights to pharmaceutical companies that charge American consumers as much as they want. Americans are forced to pay twice for lifesaving drugs, first as taxpayers to develop the drug and then as consumers to the drug companies for the product. These costs fall hardest on those least able to bear the burden such as senior citizens and the uninsured, although all consumers wind up paying more than they should have to.  
   I want to simply quote from a piece in the New York Times from April 23, which challenged the drug industry's contention that R&D cost justify the prices they charge the American consumer. That is what we keep hearing, that it is the R&D cost. That is why they have to charge so much. I quote from the New York Times piece of April 23:  
   The industry's reliance on taxpayer-supported research--characterized as a ``subsidy'' by the very same economists whose work the industry relies on--is commonplace, the examination also found. So commonplace, in fact, that one industry expert is now raising questions about the companies' arguments. 
   The expert, Dr. Nelson Levy, a former head of research and development at Abbott Laboratories, who now works as a consultant for industry and the Federal Government on drug development, bluntly challenged the industry's oft-repeated cost of developing the drug. ``That it costs $500 million to develop a drug,'' Dr. Levy said in a recent interview, ``is a lot of bull.''  
   Finally, the examination found that Federal officials have abandoned or ignored policies that could have led to lower prices for medicines developed with taxpayer dollars. That is partly because the Government has lost track of what drugs have been invented with its money, and partly, officials say, because the industry has resisted any Government effort to insist that they charge people--our constituents--a reasonable price. As Dr. Bernadine Healy, a former Director of the NIH, said in a recent interview, ``We sold away Government research so cheap.'' 
   Again, it is not a new issue. During the Bush administration, the NIH, from 1989 to 1995, insisted there be some reasonable pricing clause. There was heavy pressure from the pharmaceutical industry. They abandoned this practice. We are saying that we ought to be going back to it. 
   There are multiple factors contributing to the prescription drug cost crisis in our country today. I realize that this reasonable pricing clause is not a panacea for these egregiously high drug costs for America's seniors--and, for that matter, for families in our country--but this amendment makes it clear the Congress will not allow taxpayers to spend all of the money for this kind of research and then not get any kind of break in return.  
   For the most part, most of the drugs that are developed with taxpayer money are then given over to the pharmaceutical industry with no assurance whatsoever that Americans will not be charged outrageously high prices--in fact, no assurance that they won't be charged the highest prices in the world. Tamoxifen is a very important drug to women struggling with breast cancer. This is what a prescription costs that is getting filled. In Canada, it is $34. In the United States, it is $241. Prozac is $43 in Canada, and in the U.S. it is $105. 
   Here is the next chart. This amendment will ensure that we get some fair return on our investment and that we don't get the highest prices for medications in the world. Let me restate that. I don't think it ensures that, but it can only help. I have given some examples up here. Let me simply point out to colleagues that the cost of prescription drugs has skyrocketed. Our people in this country this past year paid 17 percent more. 
   Let me also point out that we are paying the highest costs for pharmaceutical drugs of any people anywhere in the world-- exorbitant prices. I have this chart--The Fleecing of America--just to look at some of the profits of companies. Let me give some examples: entertainment companies, $4.2 billion; airline companies, $4.7 billion; oil companies are doing pretty well right now at $13.6 billion; auto companies, $15.4 billion; the drug companies, $20 billion. 
   As the Fortune 500 magazine said, this past year has been a ``Viagra'' kind of year for these drug companies. But do you know what. It is the consumers who paid the price. We are charged the highest prices of any country in the world, and I think it is time to say to the pharmaceutical companies that enough is enough. 
   This industry has opposed every measure that has been introduced in this Congress to try to lower prices and to provide a decent prescription drug benefit to senior citizens. Frankly, I hate talking about it in terms of senior citizens because there are a lot of working families being hurt by this. 
   I think the amendment we have introduced tonight is a small step, but I think it is a step in the right direction. It is not unreasonable to say to these companies that if we are going 
   to finance the research, if NIH is going to do the research, if you are going to get valuable data and information from NIH to use to develop your drugs, and you are going to get the patent, at the very least you have to agree to charge a reasonable price. 
   That is all this amendment says. This is what we did under Dr. Healy's leadership. The pharmaceutical companies hated it. They were able to knock it out sometime around 1995. But do you know what. A lot has changed, I say to Democrats and Republicans alike, since 1995. People in our States are absolutely furious about the prices they are being charged by the pharmaceutical industry. This industry has basically become a cartel. I wish there were a lot of free enterprise. I wish there were a lot of competition. But that is not so. They basically have administered prices; they basically have price gouged; and they have made an immense amount of profit--an exorbitant amount of profit--based upon the sickness and misery and illness of people. That, in and of itself, is an obscene proposition. 
   This amendment goes after the worst of corporate welfare. This amendment is eminently reasonable, and I hope that my colleagues will support it. 
   Again, I point out the support of Families U.S.A. I think I will read from the letter of the National Council of Senior Citizens:  
   The National Council of Senior Citizens fully supports your amendment to the FY2001 Labor HHS appropriations bill to require that the Federal government negotiate a reasonable and fairer price for all drugs developed with public funds.  
   Ask the people back home. Do any of our constituents think it is unreasonable for us to ask these companies that benefit from our taxpayer dollars and benefit from Government research to charge our citizens, our constituents, a reasonable price? 
   They go on to say:  
   The Federal Government has for too long sold its most precious research findings for a mess of pottage to the pharmaceutical cartels. The drug companies, in turn, sell the findings back to the American people at unconscionably high retail prices. Pharmaceutical retail price reform must start at the source--where public drug research and development investment has borne fruit.  
   Finally, from the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare:  
   On behalf of the members and supporters of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, I strongly support your proposed amendment. 
   When pharmaceutical companies build on NIH research they are using taxpayer money. A Congressional Joint Economic Committee report revealed that seven out of the top 21 most important drugs introduced between 1965 and 1992 were developed with federally funded research. Taxpayers deserve some return on their investment in terms of lower prices. This amendment would help to ensure that.  
   This amendment would help to ensure that, and I don't know why the Senate tomorrow morning cannot go on record saying that when we, a Government agency supported by taxpayer dollars, by our constituents, do the research, provide the data, provide the information to these companies, which in turn get a patent for the drug, those companies will sign an agreement that they will charge the citizens in this country a reasonable price. 
   They make all the arguments about how they need all of these exorbitant profits for their research. But there is not a shred of evidence to support that. Their profits are so exorbitant that it goes way beyond any cost of research. We all know that. That is what is behind the record profits they make. 
   They make these arguments that I cannot believe--that if NIH is going to force us to sign an agreement, since we benefit from your research and the taxpayer money, we will charge people a reasonable price, then we may not even be willing to do this research. That is blackmail, or white mail, or whatever you want to call it. It is outrageous. These companies dare to say to the NIH--or dare to say to the Government, or to our constituents--if the Government says to the pharmaceutical companies that get the research dollars, do the work and research and get the patent, that they should charge a reasonable price, we might not do the research at all, enough is enough. 
   My final point: I think this is a reform issue as well. I think Senators vote their own way. But, honest to God, I think, at least speaking as a Senator from Minnesota, I am just tired of the way in which--if Fanny Lou Hammer were on the floor she would say ``sick and tired''--this industry pours the dollars in, makes these huge contributions, has all of these lobbyists, has all of this political power, and is so well represented to the point where they believe they run the Congress. They do not. 
   This amendment with very similar language passed the House of Representatives by a huge margin. Very similar language, the same proposition, and the same subject matter passed the House of Representatives by a huge margin. 
   I hope tomorrow on the floor of the Senate there will be a strong vote for this amendment that I bring to the floor with Senator JOHNSON of South Dakota. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Michigan for his remarks. I am very proud to have his support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to be very brief. Staff is here, and it is late. It has been a long week. I can do this in a couple of minutes. I wanted to stay with Senator HARKIN because I think this amendment goes right to the heart of what we are about. It is a win-win-win-win amendment. I do not know how many times I said ``win.'' It is a win for us because we should match our budgets and our votes with the words we speak. Just about everybody on the floor of the Senate said they are for the Federal Government meeting this commitment of 40 percent funding of IDEA. It is also a win for children with special needs. It is about children. We ought to do well for all of our children. 
   Maybe it is because I am getting a little older and have six grandchildren, but I think all children are beautiful and all children have potential and all children can make contributions. We should do everything we can to nurture and support them. That is what this program has been about. 
   The Senator from Iowa has been, if not the leader, one of the great few leaders from early time on for kids with special needs. It is also a win because I do think our States and school districts, if we can do better by way of our investments, I say to Senator HARKIN, will not only be able to live up to this commitment but will have more resources to invest in other priority areas. One of the things that has troubled me is, the Senator talked about the surplus. What is it over 10 years, $1.9 trillion? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. It is $1.5 trillion non-Social Security over the next 10 years. Some of what has been discussed is a zero-sum gain, whether we are faced with the choice of do you support low-income kids with title I or do you support IDEA or do you support a lower class size or do you support trying to get more 
   teachers into our schools, or do you support rebuilding crumbling schools. I believe we have a chance right now with the surplus, with these additional resources, to make these decisive investments. I cannot think of anything more important than making this investment in children and education. 
   My last point is, all of us--and I will even make this bipartisan, seeing Senator CHAFEE presiding, whom I think cares deeply about children and education, just like his dad did, and I mean that sincerely--we are all going to have to make some decisions about consistency. 
   It is like the old Yiddish proverb: You can't dance at two weddings at the  same time. We cannot do everything. Some people want to put yet more into tax cuts, including Democrats, more here and more there. Ultimately, we have to decide what is most important. We have this surplus and we have the opportunity. We have had all the debate and discussion, and now we have an opportunity, with this amendment--of which I am proud to be a cosponsor--to match our votes with our rhetoric. We should do that. I hope there is a strong vote for this from Democrats and Republicans. I am proud to be a cosponsor. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank Chairman SPECTER and ranking member, Senator HARKIN, for working with me to see that funding is increased for the Perkins Loan Cancellation Program. I filed an amendment that would have increased the level of the Perkins Loan Cancellation Program by $30 million to $90 million. I am very appreciative that the committee increased funds for this valuable program by $30 million--especially given the terrible budget constraints on this bill. I am especially thankful that the Managers of this bill have agreed to raise the appropriation by another $15 million. This will get the government half way to where it needs to be to reimburse Perkins Revolving Funds for what they have lost to the Loan Cancellation Program. It is an important step. 
   The reason I asked for more is simple. If we give the extra $30 million, the federal government can pay back what it owes to the universities and colleges for the loans that have been canceled. This amendment would simply fulfill its IOUs to the Perkins program. Mr. President, we have a $1.9 trillion surplus, it is ironic and probably an oversight that we are still in debt to America's colleges and universities that provide loans to low income students, but it is a debt that I think we can and should repay. That is why I am thankful for the Managers' efforts, and that is why I will continue to push for the full $90 million in the future. 
   Both the cancellation program and the Perkins Loan Program are seriously undermined if the government does not fulfill its debt obligations to the universities and colleges that choose to administer it. 
   The Perkins Loan Program (formerly called the National Defense Student Loan Program) provides long-term, low-interest (5% per year) loans to the poorest undergraduate and graduate students. 25 percent of the loans go to students with family incomes of $18,000 or less, and 83% of the loans go to students with family incomes of $30,000 or less. Since its inception, 11 million students received $15 billion in loans through the Federal Perkins Loan Program. In the academic year 1997/98, 698,000 students received Perkins loans. 
   Perkins is exceptional because it is a public/private partnership that leverages taxpayers' dollars with private sector funding. The yearly Federal contribution to Perkins Loans revolving funds leverages more than $1 billion in student loans. This is because Perkins Loans are made from revolving funds, so the largest source of funding for Perkins Loans is from the repayment of prior-year loans. 
   The Perkins Loan Cancellation Program entitles any student who has received a Perkins loan who enters teaching, nursing and other medical services, law enforcement or volunteering to cancel their loans. This past year, more than 45,000 low income students who chose to enter these important professions were able to have their loans canceled. Last year, 26,000 teachers, 10,500 nurses and medical technicians, 4,000 people who work with high-risk children and families, 4,000 law enforcement and 700 volunteers had their loans canceled under this program. 
   This year, thanks to the efforts of Senator DURBIN and others, it looks like we may be able to expand the professions eligible for cancellation to include public defenders. 
   The value of Perkins loans is enormous. Since 1980 to 1998, the cost of higher education has almost tripled, leading to a decline in the purchasing power of federal grant programs. The maximum Pell grant this year is worth only 86% of what it was worth in 1980, making the Perkins program, and all loan programs, a more important part of low income students' financial aid packages. 
   The value of the cancellation program is also enormous. It provides the lowest income people who want to  enter public service a small break from the crushing debts they incur attending higher education. Offering loan cancellation also highlights the need for well-trained people to enter public service and honors those who choose to enter public service. This is the kind of incentive and reward we should be doing more of and I thank the Senate for accepting my amendment earlier that would provide Stafford loan forgiveness for child care workers. 
   Mr. President, I am here today because the future of both of these programs is in great jeopardy because we are unable to repay the universities' revolving funds what they are owed for the cancellation program. There are colleges that receive only 47% of what they are owed by the government. They are given the rest on an IOU. 
   Because Perkins loans are funded through revolving loans, the people who end up paying the price for this IOU are low income students who are eligible for Perkins loans in the future. As loans are canceled, and the government is unable to reimburse the revolving funds, there is less and less money available in the funds to generate new loans. It is estimated that 40,000 fewer students will be eligible for Perkins loans because of the declining money available in the revolving fund. 
   When you combine the pressure from the unfulfilled government obligations with recent cuts to the Perkins program in 
   general, I believe that both these key programs are at risk. Congress has cut the yearly Federal contributions to the Perkins Loans revolving funds by $58 million since fiscal year 1997. Since 1980, the Federal Government's contributions have declined by almost 80%. 900 colleges and universities around the country have cut their Perkins programs at least in part because they were not economically viable. In MN, colleges such as Metro State University have ended this valuable program in large part because they cannot afford to keep it going. 
   This means one thing and one thing only. There are less and less loans available for the lowest income students. The $15 million the manager's package will provide will go far to reverse this situation. 
   Reducing the number of loans available is not the direction we want to be going given what we know about the rising importance of college education and the increasing need for financial aid. 
   A study from Minnesota indicates that for every $1 that is invested in higher education, $5.75 is returned to Minnesota's economy. A 1999 Department of Education study indicates that the real rate of return on investment in higher education is 12% based on earnings alone. This does not include savings on health care and other factors. Further, a recent poll found that 91% of the American Public agree that financial aid is an investment in America's future (Student Aid Alliance, 1999). 
   The numbers indicate that this is true. In 1998, men who had earned a bachelors degree earned 150% more than men who had received only a high school diploma. Women earned twice as much. (NCES, ``Condition of Education, 2000,'' 2000). College graduates earn on average $600,000 more in their lifetime than people with only a high school diploma. (US Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, 1994. 
   Despite the obvious benefits of investments in higher education, funding is declining. Since 1980 to 1998, the cost of higher education has almost tripled, leading to a decline in the purchasing power of federal grant programs. The maximum Pell grant this year is worth only 86% of what it was worth in 1980, making the Perkins program a more important part of low income students' financial aid package. Yet, the numbers of institutes of higher education offering the Perkins Loan Program has declined by 80% over the past 20 years. During the last decade, student aid funding has lagged behind inflation, yet in the next ten years, more than 14 million undergraduate students will be enrolled in the nation's colleges and universities, an increase of 11 percent. One-fifth of these students are from families below the poverty line. Many of them are the first in their families to go to college. 
   The effect of the decline in funding has a disproportionate impact on low income students--the very students that Perkins is designed to help. Studies show that an increase in tuition of $100 lowers the enrollment of low income students by 1%. (McPherson and Shapiro, 1998). In Minnesota, students from families that make $50,000 per year or more are three times as likely to attend a four year college as students from families who make $30,000 per year or less (and I remind my colleagues that 83% of Perkins loans would go directly to these students with incomes less than $30,000.) Further, more than 1/3 of students who enter college drop out. Often this is because they cannot afford to continue. 
   The Perkins Loan Program is vital to helping these low income students enter and stay in college. It would be a shame if the program failed because the government failed to pay universities back the money it owes this valuable program. By increasing the appropriation for the cancellation program, the managers have taken a strong step toward getting the government out of debt. I am also committed to seeing that this program is fully funded in the future. We have on-budget surpluses of $1.9 trillion. We should use this appropriation to ensure that we are not in debt to the 40,000 fewer students who will not receive the Perkins loans they once could have because the federal government did not meet its obligation to pay for its own cancellation program. 
   These are America's poorest students who are simply trying to afford a college education. With a $1.9 trillion surplus, we owe it to them to pay it back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I did not hear the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Pennsylvania, my guess is it will take me about 40 minutes on my side. I prefer not to agree to a time limit. I don't think I will go more than that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I call up amendment 3644. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the floor to offer a very simple amendment. This amendment asks only that we appropriate an additional $10 million to fund the loan forgiveness program which was authorized under the Higher Education Act. This is a loan forgiveness program for women and men who go into child care work. This would be taken from administrative expenses in the overall budget. 
   Despite the fact that we know that child care workers struggle to pay back their student loans, and that all too many of them earn poverty-level wages without benefits, which means in turn that many of them are forced to leave their work for higher paid work, we have yet to appropriate one penny for this forgiveness program. 
   I originally offered this amendment calling for loan forgiveness for those men and women who go into the child care field with Senator DEWINE. My thought was this is sacred work. This is important work. This is work with small children. If people are going to be paid miserably low wages--many having no health care benefits at all, and we understand the importance of early childhood development--then let's at least have a loan forgiveness that will encourage men and women to go into this area. 
   Right now the child care situation in the United States is critical. We have a system in place where child care is prohibitively high for working families. It is not uncommon for a family to be paying $6,000 per child, $12,000 per year, $10,000 per year. Maybe the family's overall income is $35,000 or $40,000. 
   At the same time, we have child care workers who are taking care of children during the most critical years of development and they don't even make poverty wages. 
   It seems counterintuitive. How can it be that on the one hand child care is so expensive, but on the other hand those men and women who work in this field are so underpaid? 
   The problems of the high costs and the low wages are inevitable under the current system of child care delivery in the United States. Colleagues, this amendment is just one vote, but this is a central issue of American politics. Talk to working families in this country and they will list child care as one of their top concerns. They are not just talking about the cost of child care, but they are also saying when both parents work, or as a single parent working, they worry most of all that their child is receiving the best care--not custodial, not in front of a television for 8 hours, but developmental care. 
   On a personal note, I can remember as a student at the University of North Carolina, barely age 20, Sheila and I had our first child. I will never forget, 6 weeks after David was born, Sheila had to go back to work. That is all the time she could take off. Six weeks is not enough time to bond with a child. We had hardly any money. We asked around and we heard about a woman who took care of children. We took David over. After about 3 days of picking him up, every day he was listless. Before he had gone to this child care, this home child care setting, he was engaged and lively. It was wonderful. 
   I was at school, I was working; Sheila was working. At 5 o'clock or 5:30 we would come to pick him up and he was listless. Finally, after 3 days I got concerned and I showed up at her home in the middle of the day. The problem was she had about 20 children she was trying to take care of. Most of them were in playpens and she had stuck a pacifier in their mouth and they were receiving no real care. There was no real interaction. Parents worry about this. 
   I argue today on the floor of the Senate, one of the keys to making sure there is decent developmental child care--not custodial child care--is to have men and women working in this field being paid a decent wage. Right now, we have a 40-percent turnover in this field. Who pays the price? The children. 
   I have said on the Senate floor before, when I was teaching at Carleton College as a college teacher for 20 years, I had conversations with students who came to me and said: Look, don't take it personally. We think you are a good teacher, Paul, and we really appreciate your work as a teacher. But we would like to go into early childhood development. The problem is, when you make $8 an hour, with no health care benefits, and you have a huge student loan to pay off, especially at a college like Carleton, you can't afford to do it. Some of the people want to go into this field, which we say is so important, but they can't afford to do it. 
   The least we could do is have a small loan forgiveness program. 
   The result of the system we have right now is poverty-level earnings for the workforce. 
   By the way, who are the child care providers in the country today? Mr. President, 98 percent of them are women, and one-third of them are women of color. We can do a lot better. We pay parking lot attendants and men and women who work at the zoos in America twice as much as we pay those men and women who take care of our small children. Something is profoundly wrong when we pay people who care for our cars and our pets more money than we do for those who care for our children. 
   Let me go over the facts. The average teacher based at a child care center earns roughly $7 an hour. Despite above average levels of education, roughly one-third of the child care workers earn the minimum wage. Even those at the highest end of the pay scale, who are likely to have a college degree and several years of experience, make about $10 an hour. Family child care providers--a lot of child care is in homes--make even less money. People who care for small groups of children in their home make on average about $9,000 per year after all expenses are figured in. 
   A recent study by the Center For The Childcare Workforce finds that family child care providers earn on the average, when you take into account their costs, $3.84 an hour, given their typical 55-hour week. Not only that, but the majority of child care workers in our country receive no health benefits, despite high exposure to illness. A lot of kids, when they come, have the flu and they pass it around. Fewer than one-third of the child care providers in this country today have health insurance, and an even smaller percentage of child care workers have any pension plan whatsoever. A recent study in my State of Minnesota found that only 31 percent of child care centers offered full-time employees fully paid health care. 
   The consequences of these dismal conditions are clear. Let me just put it into perspective for colleagues. In the White House Conference on the Development of the Brain, they talked about how important it is that we get it right for children in the very early years of their lives. The medical evidence is irrefutable and irreducible that these are the most critical years. We all want to have our pictures taken next to children --the smaller the children are, the better. Yet at the same time we have done so precious little to make a commitment to this area. We have child care workers, men and women who work in these centers, who do not even make half of what people make who work in our zoos. I think work in the zoo is important, but I also think work with small children is important. 
   We have the vast majority of child care workers barely making minimum wage or a little bit above, only about a third at best having any health care coverage whatsoever. 
   Senator DEWINE and I, several years ago, help pass a bill that authorized some loan forgiveness so you would have men and women who could go to college, with the idea they would go into this critically important field and their loans would be forgiven. What I am trying to do, taking it out of administrative expenses, is just finally to get a little bit of appropriation; start out with $10 million so we finally set the precedent that we are willing to fund this. We have not put one penny into 
   this program so far. 
   What happens is that we have this high turnover. As I said before, probably about 40 percent or thereabouts of child care workers in any given year go from one job to another. That figure may be a little high, but it is a huge turnover. Who pays the price? The children pay the price. As I look at my own figures, I guess it is about a third, a third of this country's child care workforce leaves the job each year because they are looking for better work. This leads to a dangerous decline in the quality of child care for our families. The most dangerous decline in quality is the care for toddlers, for infants.  They are exposed to the poorest care of all. 
   We have not appropriated one cent for the loan forgiveness program we authorized 2 years ago, and at the same time you have 33 percent of child care workers every year leaving, and you don't have the continuity of care for our children, for families in this country. At the same time, it is the infants and the toddlers who are the ones who are most in jeopardy. At the same time, we have not made any commitment whatsoever to at least--at least, this doesn't change everything in the equation--make sure we have a loan forgiveness program. 
   Another thing that is happening is that as we begin to see a severe teacher shortage, a lot of child care workers are saying that they can't make it on $8 an hour with no health care benefits. A lot of younger people say they can't make it on $8 an hour with no health care benefits and a big loan to pay off. They now become our elementary school teachers or middle school teachers. 
   As a result, what you have is, at the same time the number of child care providers is decreasing, the number of families who need good child care for their children is dramatically increasing. That is not just because of the welfare bill, but because the reality of American families today, for better or for worse--sometimes I wonder--is that you just don't have one parent staying at home. In most families, both parents are working full time. This is a huge concern to families in this country. We could help by passing this amendment. 
   I want to talk about one study in particular that I think, in a dramatic way, puts into focus what I am talking about. It was a recent study by the University of California at Berkeley and Yale University. They found that a million more toddlers and preschoolers are now in child care because of the welfare law. That wouldn't surprise anyone, given the emphasis on people going to work. So far, so good. 
   But they also found that many of these children are in low-quality care, where they lag behind other children in developmental measures. This was a study of 1,000 single mothers moving from welfare to work. They wanted to know where were their children. What they found out was their children were, by and large, placed in child care settings where they watched TV all the time, wandered aimlessly, and there was little interaction with caregivers. Here is the tragedy of it. Many of these toddlers from these families showed developmental delays. 
   Would anybody be surprised? Anyone who has spent any time with small children would not be surprised. When asked to point to a picture of a book from among three different pictures, fewer than two in five of the toddlers in the study pointed to the right picture compared to a national norm of four out of five children. 
   One of the study's authors is quoted as saying:  
   We know that high quality child care can help children and that poor children can benefit the most. So we hope that this will be a wake-up call to do something about the quality of child care in this country. The quality of daycare centers is not great for middle class families, but it is surprising and distressing to see the extent to which welfare families' quality was even lower.  
   I simply want to point out that just because a family is a welfare family or just because a family is a poor family does not mean these small children are not as deserving of good child care. That is not the situation today in the country. 
   Ironically, as we see the child care system deteriorating, we are now putting more and more emphasis on the importance of developmental child care. We are saying at the same time that we want to make sure single parents work and families move from welfare to work. We are putting the emphasis on work, and more families have to work to make it. 
   The median income in our country today is about $40,000 a year. The income profile is not that high. We know investment in early childhood development pays for itself many times over. We know good child care programs dramatically increase the chances for children to do well in school, for children to go on beyond K-12 and go to college and do well in their lives, and we know the lives of low-income families, in particular, quite often lack some of the advantages other families in this country have. Children from low-income families do not always have the same vocabulary; there is not always the opportunity for a parent or parents to read to them. Therefore, the learning gap by kindergarten is wide. Some children start way behind, and then they fall further behind. 
   I cite one study which began in the seventies on the effects of early childhood intervention. Children who received comprehensive, quality, early education did better on cognitive, reading and math tests than children who did not. This positive effect continues through age 21 and beyond. Parents benefit as well. I do not understand where our priorities are. We should want to make a commitment to working families in this country and make a commitment to children. 
   I want to give some evidence from the State of Minnesota, and then I will finish up at least with my first comments. This loan forgiveness program works. First, it gives people an opportunity to go to college who want to become child care workers. Second, the turnover is reduced. Third, this means we get better people. 
   My own State of Minnesota has experimented. We have a State level loan forgiveness program. In 1998, we offered child care providers up to $1,500 in forgivable student loans for the first time. Fifty percent of the money was set aside for what we call the metro area, and 50 percent of the money was set aside for greater Minnesota, outside the metro area. The money was awarded on a first come, first served basis. People began lining up on the first day. In the metro area, all the money was gone by 5 p.m. on the second day, and all of the money for rural Minnesota was awarded within 2 weeks. 
   This year, Minnesota has made over $900,000 available through their loan forgiveness program. They started accepting applications in March, and they have committed nearly half the money to family care providers and 50 percent to center-based providers. A lot of it goes to rural Minnesota and a lot of it goes to urban Minnesota. 
   I am saying to my colleagues, I am hoping I can win on this amendment. I take it out of administrative expenses. We know the budget is going to be better for this Health and Human Services bill. We know we do not have a good budget with which to work right now. We know the cap is going to go up. We know we are going to have more resources with which to work. 
   We all say we are committed to developmental child care. 
   It is one of the top issues of working families. It seems to me several years ago--I did this with Senator DEWINE--we authorized legislation that called for loan forgiveness to men and women who want to go into this critical area, and we have not appropriated one penny. We can at least find it in our hearts and find our way to put some appropriations into this legislation. I am calling for $10 million as a start. 
   I am saying to Senators today--and I do not think anybody can argue with me--there is not one Senator who can dispute the clear set of facts that we have to get it right for children. We have to get it right for them before age 3, much less before age 5. Nobody can argue with that. 
   Nobody can argue these are not critical developmental years. Look at the spark in their eyes. They are experiencing all the unnamed magic in the world before them, as long as we encourage them. No one can argue that for working families this is not a huge issue, both the expense of child care, which I cannot deal with in this amendment, and the quality of the care for their children. If both parents are working or a single parent is working, there is nothing more important to them than making sure their child is receiving the best care. They do not want their child warehoused. They do not want their child in front of a television 8 hours a day. They want to make sure their child is stimulated. They want to make sure there is nurturing for their child. They want to make sure there is interaction with their child. 
   I do not know how some of the people who work in the child care field do it. They are saints; they do it out of love for children; but they should not be the ones who subsidize this system. We are not going to have good people in the child care field if they are making $8 an hour. We are not going to have good people if they do not have any health  care benefits. I cannot deal with that in this amendment, but I can deal with one thing. I can call on my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, who say they are committed to good child care, who say they are committed to family values. If they are committed to family values, what better way to value families than to make sure that when people are working, their children are receiving good care? What better way to make sure that happens than to do something about the one-third turnover every year? 
   How can we best deal with the one-third turnover? We need to do a lot of things, but this amendment in its own small way helps. I am simply saying we ought to at least put $10 million into this loan forgiveness program so we can encourage men and women--frankly, I would like to see more men in this field; it is almost all women in this field. At least they know their loan will be forgiven. That will make a huge difference. That is all this amendment is about. 
   I also say to my colleagues, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself and Senator DEWINE. I am so pleased Senator DEWINE is a cosponsor. I have done a number of different bills and legislation with Senator DEWINE. We did the Workforce Investment Act together, and we did this authorization together. I do not think we are asking too much. 
   This is actually a crisis. The fact is, the studies that have come out about the quality of child care in this country are pretty frightening. Sometimes it is downright dangerous, but almost always it is barely adequate, and we have to do something about it. One of the best ways we can show we care is to at least begin putting some funding into this loan 
   forgiveness program. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time if, in fact, there is substantive debate on this issue. Otherwise, I will make a few other points. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Alaska. And if this is not presumptuous of me to say, normally I like to call for a recorded vote, but I would be pleased to have a voice vote, if that is what my colleague wants. And there is one reason why. I can't get an ironclad commitment from the Senator from Alaska, but I make a plea to him to please try to help me keep it in conference. It would be a small step toward getting funding for this. I know the Senator is very effective. I don't need to have a recorded vote if he can at least tell me he will certainly try. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am very glad to hear that. I think I would be pleased to go forward with a voice vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, might I ask my colleagues, there is some order here. There is going to be a Reed amendment--is 
   that correct?--next, and then a KENNEDY amendment. I have an amendment with Senator REID that deals with mental health and suicide prevention. Might I add that I follow Senator KENNEDY? I am ready to keep rolling. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Can I ask my colleague in that sequence, that following Senator KENNEDY there be a Republican and then I be allowed---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Suicides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will be quite brief. I apologize. I didn't realize the amendment was coming up now. Senator REID and I were doing this together. Probably 10 minutes is what I will need. My understanding is that the Senator from Pennsylvania, who has been focused on suicide prevention and trying to do better with mental health treatment, would accept  the amendment. I think I can do this in 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. I say to my colleague from Pennsylvania, I haven't been out here on the amendment. He knows that, and I don't want the Senator from Nevada to only have a few moments. It is an important issue. I don't think we can do it in that time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we will move forward and not go through any unnecessary delay. This amendment would support a certification program to improve and evaluate the effectiveness and responsiveness of suicide hotlines and crisis centers in the U.S. and to help support and evaluate a national hotline and crisis center network. 
   Let me go through these figures here on the chart. 
   Suicide facts for our country: 
   Every 42 seconds someone attempts suicide. 
   Each 16.9 minutes someone completes suicide. 
   Suicide is the eighth leading cause of all deaths. 
   Death rates from suicide are highest for those over age 75. 
   The incidence of suicide among 15- to 24-year-olds has tripled over the past 40 years, making it the third leading killer in that age group of 15- to 24-year-olds. 
   In the State of Minnesota, it is the second leading killer of young people from age 15 to 24. These statistics that deal with mental illness and suicides are disturbing. I point out to my colleagues that one of the factors that makes it so disturbing is that so much of suicide is connected to mental illness, especially depression or substance abuse, and so much of it is diagnosable. Frankly, it is treatable. 
   Really, there should be a hue and cry in the country for corrective action. I do a lot of work with Senator DOMENICI, and I get to do this work with Senator REID and Senator KENNEDY as well. There are a whole host of issues that deal with our failure to provide decent mental health coverage for people. 
   I thank Surgeon General David Satcher for doing marvelous work. The Surgeon General's report, which came out recently, talks about 500,000 people every year in our country requiring emergency room treatment as a result of attempted suicide. In 1996, nearly 31,000 Americans took their own lives. 
   I think of Al and Mary Kluesner in the State of Minnesota who started this organization called SAVE. They themselves have lost two children to suicide. Several of their other children have been unbelievably successful in their lives. There has been, up until fairly recently, this shame and people feeling as if it is their own moral failure. But it has so little to do with that. 
   I met a couple weeks ago with Dr. David Shaffer from Columbia University and Kay Jamison from Johns Hopkins University. She has done some of the most powerful writing. It was Dr. Jamison who said before Senator SPECTER's committee, ``The gap between what we know and what we do is lethal.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, what this amendment does is add $3 million to SAMHSA to support, through grants, a certification program that would evaluate the effectiveness and responsiveness of crisis centers and suicide hotlines across the United States. 
   It also helps to support a national hot line and crisis center network. There are 750 such crisis services in place across the country today. These centers are documented in the directory kept by the American Association of Suicidology. 
   To date, there has been little or no funding to help support the training and to improve the quality of guidance through these hot line and crisis services. This amendment does exactly that. These funds will be used to improve the training and the skills of the staff at the crisis hot lines for suicides. There will be a variety of ways in which we can get the money to people so this work can be done. 
   In awarding these grants, I encourage the Secretary of Health and Human Services to collect an experienced nonprofit organization with significant expertise to administer this program. 
   According to U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher, approximately 500,000 people each year require emergency room treatment as a result of attempted suicide. In 1996 alone, nearly 31,000 Americans took their own lives. In the U.S., suicide is the third leading cause of death of people age 15-34. A suicide takes place in our country every 17 minutes. 
   In some parts of our country, including my own state of Minnesota, suicide is the second leading cause of death for these young people. Three times the number of Minnesotans die from suicide than from homicide. 
   We know, without a doubt, that 90 percent of all completed suicides are linked to untreated or inadequately treated mental illness or addiction. To prevent suicide requires an all-out public health effort that will recognize this problem, and will educate our country that we can no longer afford to turn our eyes away from the unthinkable reality that our citizens, even our children, may want to die. 
   Dr. Satcher and other national mental health experts, such as Dr. Steve Hyman, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, have helped bring this issue forward, and to help us understand that, with proper treatment, this is one of the most preventable tragedies that we face as a country.  
   In 1996, the World Health Organization also issued a report urging members worldwide to address the problem of suicide, and one result was the creation of a public/private partnership to seek a national strategy for the U.S., involving many government agencies and advocacy groups. This is clearly a serious problem throughout the world. 
   For too long, mental illness has been stigmatized, or viewed as a character flaw, rather than as the serious disease that it is. A cloak of secrecy has surrounded this disease, and people with mental illness are often ashamed and afraid to seek treatment, for fear that they will be seen as admitting a weakness in character. For this reason, they may delay treatment until their situation becomes so severe that they may feel incapable of reaching out. 
   Although mental health research has well-established the biological, genetic, and behavioral components of many of the forms of serious mental illness, the illness is still stigmatized as somehow less important or serious other than illnesses. Too often, we try to push the problem away, deny coverage, or blame those with the illness for having the illness. We forget that someone with mental illness can look just like the person we see in the mirror, or the person who is sitting next to us on a plane. It can be our mother, our brother, our son, or daughter. It can be one of us. We have all known someone with a serious mental illness, within our families or our circle of friends, or in public life. Many people have courageously come forward to speak about their personal experiences with their illness, to help us all understand better the effects of this illness on a person's life, and I commend them for their courage. 
   The statistics concerning mental illness, and the state of health care coverage for adults and children with this disease are startling, and disturbing. 
   One severe mental illness affecting millions of Americans is major depression. The National Institute of Mental Health, an NIH research institute, within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, describes serious depression as a critical public health problem. More than 18 million people in the United States will suffer from a depressive illness this year, and many will be unnecessarily incapacitated for weeks or months, because their illness goes untreated. Many will die. 
   I recently had the good fortune to meet with a group of some of the foremost experts on suicide prevention, including Dr. David Shaffer, from Columbia University, and Dr. Kay Jamison, from John Hopkins 
   University. They gave me an extraordinary overview of the many critical points of intervention where suicide may be prevented, and it is my intention to develop a larger bill, in collaboration with Senator HARRY REID, and hopefully many of my colleagues, that will address many of these issues. 
   But this amendment will meet an important need right now, one that is timely, and even with its modest funding can help save many lives. This amendment has the support of Senators REID and KENNEDY, as well as the support of the national groups: 
   American Association of Suicidology, 
   American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, 
   SPAN (Suicide Prevention and Advocacy Network), 
   National Mental Health Association, 
   National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, 
   American Psychiatric Association, 
   American Psychological Association, 
   Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, and SA/VE, a group based in Minnesota (Suicide Awareness/Voices of Education), headed by Al and Mary Kluesner. 
   My amendment will add $3 million to SAMHSA to support through grants a certification program to improve and evaluate the effectiveness and responsiveness of crisis centers and suicide hotlines across the United States, and to help support a national hotline and crisis center network. Although there are 750 such crisis services in place across our country--these centers are documented in the directory kept by the American Association of Suicidology--to date there has been little or no funding to help support the training and improve the quality of the guidance that is provided through these hotline and crisis services. 
   This amendment will do exactly that. These funds will be used to help improve the training and skills of the staff at crisis hotline suicides, through guidance provided by the American Society of Suicidology, the Center for Mental Health Services, the National Institute Mental Health, and other mental health professionals. It will also help support the development of a national hotline and network of certified crisis centers. 
   In the awarding of grants, I would encourage the Secretary of HHS to select an experienced non-profit organization with significant expertise in this area to administer the certification process, so that this process of training can begin as quickly as possible. 
   Telephone hotlines are only one of the points of intervention, and are not and cannot be the only solution to those who suffer from severe mental illness and the extraordinary despair that leads to suicide. Our country also needs to ensure that Americans have fair access to medical care, that the stigma associated with mental illness is reduced, and more education and training for health care providers is made available. But the hotline does provide a lifeline for those who need to reach out for help and have nowhere else to turn too when they reach the point of despair. 
   The crisis centers that run suicide hotlines are often patched together through a variety of funding sources, and struggle to keep their staff trained and their services of the highest quality. Although some centers are certified by the American Association of Suicidology, and some are connected through the Hope Line Network that is working to establish a national network, this process has only just begun. These centers perform a critically important service and would benefit enormously from a national certification process and regular staff training. The time is right to fund such a process. 
   Staff at crisis centers need to be trained to conduct a suicide risk assessment to determine the seriousness and urgency of someone who may be contemplating suicide. They also need to know when to refer the individual to a local community mental health provider if the person is not in crisis. But most importantly, they need to know when to send the police to the person's home or workplace if the staff person is convinced that a suicide is about to take place. 
   Most people think that there is a national suicide hotline already in place that links people throughout the country. But until recently, this was not so. Crisis centers operated on their own, with volunteer help, and few resources. Recently, a national hotline number (1-800-SUICIDE) was established through the Hope Line Network, through the National Mental Health Awareness Campaign. As an example of the incredible need for such a number, the national hotline found itself flooded with calls after recently advertising on MTV and Fox Family Channel. Additionally, 1.5 million Americans logged onto their website during the 2 weeks after this advertising began. There are obviously many people who are in need of this service. And it needs to be the best possible service, and linked as best it can be to local help. 
   By improving the training and skills of crisis hotline operators, such contact can be of the highest quality. Certification would require rigorous on site training and visits, evaluation of operations, records reviews, verification of staff training and skills, and the like. 
   The Surgeon General is to be commended for bringing this issue of suicide forward as a major public health crisis in his 1999 report, Call to Action to Prevent Suicide. In his report, he specifically cited the need for instituting training programs concerning suicide risk assessment and recognition, treatment, management, and aftercare intervention. He also asked that community care resources be enhanced as referral points for mental health services. This amendment helps to support both of these requests. 
   I must emphasize that suicide is often linked to severe depression and other forms of mental illness. These illnesses are not the normal ups and downs everyone experiences. They are illnesses that affect mood, body, behavior, and mind. Depressive disorders interfere with individual and family functioning. Without treatment, the person with a depressive disorder is  often unable to fulfill the responsibilities of spouse or parent, worker or employer, friend or neighbor. And far too often, without treatment, a person can reach such a level of despair that they will take their own life. This amendment will fund programs to help people get the treatment they need before it is too late. As Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison stated in a recent Senate hearing on suicide, when it comes to treatment for mental illness, ``the gap between what we know and what we do is lethal.'' 
   The issue of suicide prevention is one that we have discussed before, at a hearing held by Senator SPECTER, and during other discussions about mental health research and treatment. I am proud of my colleagues who have supported these efforts, including the cosponsors of this amendment, Senator REID and Senator KENNEDY. I am proud to join them in bringing this amendment forward, and I ask you for your support. 
   There is a piece of legislation I have with Senator DOMENICI called the Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act. We believe, especially when it comes to physician visits and days in hospitals, that people with a mental illness should be treated the same way as people with a physical illness. We think it is time to end this discrimination. 
   I have two other amendments that are included in other legislation which deal with the problem of suicide and mental health--especially with young people--and ways of getting money to communities that can then put the money to use, whether it be substance abuse treatment programs, whether it be family counseling, or whether it be pharmacological treatment, or you name it. 
   The amendment I introduced with Senator REID is very basic. It is very straightforward. 
   It basically provides the grants through a certification program to improve the effectiveness of these suicide hot lines and crisis centers in the United States. It will help them support and evaluate a national hot line and crisis center network. 
   I say to my colleague from Nevada that this is really incremental. It is not the be all or the end all. But the additional resources will really help SAMHSA. It will help us make sure these crisis hot lines are put to the very best use; that the people who are working there have the best training; that people who will be working these lines will do their very best in taking calls and know how to help people. 
   This is important. It is a network of support for people. It is one step and only one step. 
   But I will finish my remarks and then hear from my colleague from Nevada who really is taking the lead on this amendment. 
   Again, every 42 seconds someone in our country attempts suicide. Every 16.9 minutes someone completes suicide. Suicide is the eighth leading cause of all deaths. 
   This one really gets to me. I admit that until I saw this--I believe I do a lot of work in the mental health area--I didn't realize the suicide rates are highest for those over age 75. I didn't realize that. My focus has really been on young people because in my State of Minnesota, for the age of 15 to 24, suicide is the second leading cause of death. 
   We need to do better. In this piece of legislation, we take this funding from administrative services and put it into this program. I think it will make a very positive difference. 
   I am delighted that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are going to support this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, two things. First, I thank the Senator from Nevada for his comments. Second, I say to Senator SPECTER, I am sure he remembers when Kay Jamison testified before his committee, saying the gap between what we know and what we do is lethal. This is just a small step. I am hoping that the Senate--the sooner the better--will embrace this issue and put some resources back to communities that can put this money to work in terms of suicide prevention. Much of this is diagnosable and preventable. 
   We have some confusion. Before I agree, I say to Senator REID, I want to suggest the absence of a quorum. We have a disagreement about how we will deal with this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Pennsylvania for his genuine concern, and the ways in which, as the chair of this committee, he has supported this initiative. He cares about it deeply. I thank  him. I am pleased he will accept the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Vinu Pillai, an intern, Nina Rossomando, a fellow, and Ellen Gerrity be allowed the privilege of the floor this afternoon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask the Senator from Pennsylvania and the Senator from Iowa whether or not I should lay down my amendment, and then set it aside when other Members come out. I am pleased to come into play here, if that would help. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague for that response. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment increases the appropriations of title I, part A, to $10 billion. Actually, the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee unanimously voted to authorize this to the $15 billion level. I think right now we are at $8.36 billion. This is an amendment to get us at least part way there. 
   I come to the floor today to speak on the agreement that has been reached regarding some of the spending cuts in the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill. It is my understanding that Senator STEVENS has agreed to drop certain provisions of this bill in conference; in particular, I understand that the 1.9 billion dollar S-CHIP cut, the 240 million dollar TANF cut, the 50 million dollar welfare-to-work performance bonus, and the 1.1 billion dollar cut to the Social Service Block Grant (SSBG) will all now be restored in conference. 
   I would like to thank my colleagues, particularly Senator STEVENS, Senator ROTH, and Senator GRAHAM, for ensuring that the funding for these critical programs is restored. However, I also feel that it is important to stand up today and remind all of my colleagues that it never should have come to this--none of these programs should have ever seen their funding streams reduced in the first place. In particular, the proposed 1.1 billion dollar cut to the SSBG, a cut that would have reduced the block grant to just 600,000 dollars, should never have made it into this bill. 
   I have to say how disappointed I was to learn that the FY 2001 Labor-HHS Appropriations bill contained such enormous funding cuts to the Social Services Block Grant, cuts of more than 1 billion dollars. And while I find it deeply disturbing that such cuts would be proposed under any circumstances, I find it even more deeply disturbing that these cuts were proposed as part of the FY 2001 Labor-HHS Appropriations since we had this exact debate last year. In the FY 2000 Labor-HHS Appropriations, the SSBG faced cuts of just over 1 billion dollars. At that time, Senator GRAHAM of Florida and I offered an amendment to restore SSBG funding, and in my mind, the question was settled. When asked, ``Should we reduce funding to the SSBG?'' the overwhelming response was, no, absolutely not. At that time, fifty-seven Senators said that the services their states provide using SSBG funds--services like Meals on Wheels, congregate dining, assisted living for the elderly and the disabled, foster care services, and child care services, to name only a few--are important to the people in their communities and that they did not want to see these funds cut. 
   I ask you, why then did the SSBG face such enormous cuts again this year? This program is simply too important, and it is critical that we set a new standard by which the SSBG is always funded first, not last, never as an afterthought, never as the result of intensive last-minute lobbying and negotiation, and by which the SSBG is always funded to the full statutory amount. 
   As many of my colleagues already know, the SSBG is a flexible funding stream that states use to pay for a wide variety of services and programs for many of their most vulnerable citizens. The states have a tremendous amount of leeway in how they use their SSBG funds, and this is one funding stream they are able to use to try to develop innovative and creative programs to help the poor and needy. SSBG funds can be spent to serve people with incomes up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level, and the money need only be used to help people achieve and maintain economic self-support and self-sufficiency, and to prevent, reduce, or eliminate dependency. SSBG funds may be used for services that prevent or remedy neglect and abuse, and to prevent or reduce unnecessary institutional care by providing community-based or home-based non-institutional care. States use this money to care for people who would otherwise slip through the cracks; these funds are critical for the well-being of the most vulnerable people among us--the very old and the very young, the poor, and the disabled. These are people who most need our help, and we should not be slashing the very money that is most likely to serve them. 
   Title XX (20) of the Social Security Act specifies that 1.7 billion dollars is to be provided to the States through the SSBG for FY 2001. However, in spite of its status as a mandatory program, the SSBG has been raided repeatedly over the years to fund other priorities. Beginning in 1996, as part of the welfare ``reform'' law, the SSBG was cut by 15 percent, from 2.8 billion dollars to 2.38 billion dollars, for fiscal years 1997 through 2002, after which point its funding was supposed to go back to 2.8 billion dollars. The states reluctantly accepted these cuts, and only after they obtained a commitment from Congress that we would provide stable funding for the block grant in the future. 
   As it turns out, the lifespan on that particular Congressional commitment was only two years, because by 1998, we were back to raid the SSBG again when the highway bill cut funding for the block grant further, to 1.7 billion dollars for fiscal year 2001 and each year after that. And now here we are again, with our hand in the cookie jar, trying to raid the SSBG one more time. The FY 2001 Senate Labor-HHS Appropriations bill that came out of committee proposed slashing funding for this block grant yet again, this time to only 600 million dollars, a cut of more than one billion dollars. If this proposed cut were enacted, funding for the SSBG will be almost 80 percent lower in 2001 than it was in 1995. Mr. President, I feel certain that by no stretch of anyone's imagination does an 80 percent cut qualify as the stable funding we promised the states in 1996. 
   And what kind of a message do we send to the States when we talk about cutting block grant funds? Congress sold welfare reform to the states on the promise that they would have the flexibility to administer their own social service programs. But as the National Conference of State Legislatures point out, ``these cuts [to the SSBG] would set the precedent that the federal government is reticent to stand by its decision to grant flexibility to states in administering social programs.'' Couple this with the nearly 2 billion dollars the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill 
   proposed cutting from S-CHIP, another block grant critical to the states' ability to provide services for vulnerable citizens, and I think the states could take only one message away from this bill as it came to the Senate floor: Don't make long-term investments in these social service programs, because you simply can't count on the federal government to keep up their end of the bargain. 
   SSBG funds are used by the states to provide services for needy individuals and families not eligible for TANF, and to reduce federal Medicaid payments by helping vulnerable elderly and disabled live in their homes rather than in institutions. States also use SSBG funds for child care services and other supports for families moving from welfare to work. When Congress proposed slashing these funds, we sent a clear, and I believe extremely damaging, message to the states. I think we told them not to invest in these kinds of social support programs, because they just can't count on the money being there. 
   But let's just say for a minute that we were to go back on our word and break our commitment to the states--so what? What exactly does SSBG fund? Anything important? 
   Only if you think adoption services, congregate meals, counseling services, child abuse and neglect services, day care, education and training services, employment services, family planning services, foster care services, home delivered meals, housing services, independent and transitional living services, legal services, pregnancy and parenting services, residential treatment services, services for at-risk youth and families, special services for the disabled, and transportation services are important. All of these programs are funded, in part at least, through the SSBG. 
   Each year, SSBG funds are used by the states to provide critical support  services to millions of vulnerable people. In 1998, for example, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, roughly 10 percent of SSBG funds were spent on programs that provided child care for low- and moderate-income families, while another 18 percent of SSBG funds were spent on services to protect children from abuse and to provide foster care to children. 
   Other SSBG funds were used to provide services to low- and moderate-income elderly, truly some of our most vulnerable community members. Services provided to this population through the SSBG include home-based care and assisted living services intended to help many elderly people stay out of institutions, so that they can continue to live with dignity in their own homes, where they feel safe and comfortable. In many cases, the costs the federal government would incur if SSBG funded services were withdrawn and these individuals forced into nursing homes instead would far exceed the savings generated by slashing this important block grant. In some states, SSBG funds are also used to pay for protective services to prevent abuse, neglect, and exploitation of vulnerable seniors. No other program provides significant funding for those services. 
   Additionally, the SSBG helps to fund support services for nearly half a million people with mental retardation and other physical and mental disabilities. The services provided with SSBG funds include transportation assistance, adult day care programs, early intervention, crisis intervention, respite care, and employment and independent living services. Again, these are services that help keep vulnerable people in their own homes and out of costly institutionalized settings, allowing them to live their lives with dignity and respect. 
   In my own state of Minnesota, SSBG funds are used to provide an enormous range of important services. For example, some counties use SSBG to augment child care for low-income single women and families. Yet even with these additional funds, there are currently huge waiting lists for subsidized day care in most counties. If we further cut SSBG funds, these county level programs are going to have to reduce or eliminate services that they provide. And when a single mom who's just gotten off welfare and is trying to make ends meet while she starts working at her new job, when she loses the subsidized day care that she counts on, what do you think is going to happen? Which do you think is more likely--that she'll be able to afford to pay for day care herself, or that she'll be forced to go back onto welfare? 
   Many Minnesota counties use SSBG money for home care services for the elderly. These counties use SSBG funds to pay for a care giver to go into a vulnerable elderly person's home and help them with basic ``home chore'' services like taking their medicine on time and in the right doses, keeping their home clean and safe, taking a bath, or making sure there is food in the refrigerator. These are simple, basic services, but they often mean the difference between allowing someone to stay in their own home or being forced into an institution. If SSBG funds are cut, vulnerable elderly are likely to lose home care services like a visiting nurse or case management person, which might then force them into a nursing home or an assisted living situation that would, in the end, cost much more money than will be saved by reducing the SSBG. 
   When speaking with people in Minnesota about how they use their SSBG funds, I learned that SSBG money is also sometimes used, especially in rural areas, to fund transportation for elderly and disabled, so they can access services like doctors, getting groceries, and just simply so they're not so isolated in their home (a ride to the senior center, perhaps). There's no other funding source that will pay for this. For disabled people who are just over eligibility guidelines for medical assistance, SSBG money is used to help meet their needs--managing medication, transportation, and community based services like training and counseling. Basically, the way it's been explained to me, Minnesota counties typically rely on SSBG money to pay for services for people who otherwise fall through the cracks. They count on this money to provide simple, basic services that keep the most vulnerable among us in their homes and out of much more costly institutions. 
   When I asked people in Minnesota to explain to me exactly what kinds of services they provide with SSBG funds, I was amazed by what I 
   heard. Rex Holzemer, who works for Hennepin County, which is the county where Minneapolis is located, gave me several short case examples from the county's social services areas that are supported by SSBG funds. He told me about: 
   An 84-year old widow who was neglected and financially exploited by tenants in her duplex who had isolated her socially and taken over her financial affairs, including cashing her Social Security checks. When a social worker intervened, he found this woman emaciated and unaware of her circumstances. The woman was hospitalized and subsequently transferred to a care setting. Adult Protection arranged for a conservatorship, and as part of a court-supervised settlement, the perpetrators agreed to pay back the bulk of the money. 
   Rex also told me about an 8-year old girl with autism, behavior problems and a sleep disorder, who was provided temporary crisis transitional care while her parents worked to modify her physical environment at home. The crisis service provided special training on appropriate behavioral interventions for the parents and other caregivers, which produced positive behavioral outcomes for the child, thereby avoiding inpatient hospitalization and/or out-of-home placement. 
   Then there is the case of a 48-year old woman with schizophrenia who called looking for help finding a living situation that would offer her some needed supervision. She was referred to several community transitional programs, but was unable to follow through due to her illness. The intake worker connected her with an outreach case manager who helped this woman stabilize her life. She was referred to a psychiatrist, found crisis housing, and ultimately moved into her own apartment with only periodic supportive services. 
   Or how about the case of a child born addicted to cocaine, who Child Protective Services had to place into foster care? The child's mother has never been able to pass drug testing as required by the court-ordered child protection plan. The child's 25-year old father, who has mild functional impairments, worked intensively with the Developmental Disabilities Parent Support Project for eight months to learn appropriate parenting skills. Due to the progress the father made, the child was transferred at age one from foster care into the father's home. 
   And what about the two-parent family with four children that was overwhelmed by the needs of their 15-year old son who was violent and out-of-control? The mother had been assaulted several times by the son, and had finally asked that the child be placed out of the home. The county was able to provide intensive in-home therapy with the entire family. The son also received individual therapy and participated in after-school programming. The parents were provided with training on appropriate behavioral interventions through the in-home counseling and were ultimately able to manage their son within the home, averting the need for out-of-home placement. 
   In each of these cases, Hennepin County drew on SSBG funds to provide services to people who desperately needed help. And in each of these cases, because the county was able to provide assistance, vulnerable individuals were able to stay out of institutions, with their families, in safe, comfortable settings. But if the Labor-HHS bill is enacted with the proposed SSBG cuts, Hennepin County will have to reduce exactly these kinds of services. And it isn't just urban counties that rely on SSBG funds, but many of our rural Minnesota counties also use SSBG funds to provide critically important services. 
   Sue Beck, the Director of Human Services in Crow Wing County, Minnesota, a rural Minnesota county, also told me how her county uses its SSBG funds. Sue explained that her county counts on SSBG funds to make sure that vulnerable populations, the elderly, the disabled, children, and poor people, have the services they need to live economically secure, self-sufficient lives. The vulnerable adults they help with SSBG money tend to be elderly  people, seniors or disabled people, who get home care services--someone to come in to help them clean their home and maintain a safe environment, bathe, have food to eat, to see that they take the right amount of medicine when they're supposed to. Oftentimes these people aren't eligible for medical assistance, so there's not another source of funding available to them when they're living in the community. 
   What will happen if SSBG funds are cut is that they will wind up having to go into a nursing home in order to qualify for funds to pay for their care. Over the past several years, due to SSBG cuts that have already been imposed, her county has had to cut back services in transportation and ``chore services''--for disabled and elderly people who need just a little bit of help--things like help shoveling snow or grocery shopping. They use SSBG money currently to augment their employability budget--to provide supported employment, and community based employment for people who otherwise might not be able to compete successfully in the job market. All of this is at risk when we talk about cutting SSBG by more than 65 percent. 
   Dave Haley, from the Ramsey County Department of Human Services, the county where St. Paul is located, also told me about how his county spends their SSBG money: 
   The first example Dave gave me was that of a typical family of a single-mother who has three young children. The oldest child, a 7-year-old boy, has missed a significant number of school days. The mother is experiencing problems with chemical dependency and involved in a violent relationship with her boyfriend. The mother cannot make sure that the child gets up every day on time, and is promptly fed and dressed for school. The family does not have a car or other personal means of transportation. Through programs partially funded with SSBG money, the County is able to provide support to the mother to resolve her chemical dependency problems and domestic abuse. Services ensure that the seven-year-old is attending school on a regular basis and the boy is beginning to make academic progress. 
   There are over 2,000 young children in Ramsey County currently in this situation. Ramsey County and local school districts have been able to develop a very active program to address these educational neglect issues and insure that children attend school on a consistent basis. They will be forced to scale back this effort, though, if SSBG funds are cut by more than a billion dollars. 
   Another example that Dave gave me is that of a 30 year-old woman that is living in her own apartment in her home community. Thirty years ago, a similar individual with moderate mental health needs would have been placed in a state hospital miles from their family home. Over the last three decades, needed supports have been developed, including programs to monitor and assist individuals in managing their medications, checking on their money management and assisting when necessary with proper budgeting, teaching needed independent living skills, and employment support to maintain their current job. Without periodic weekly checks, the individual would have great difficulty managing their daily life, and might be forced into an institutionalized living situation. 
   The system that has developed over the last three decades has not only improved the lives of hundreds of people in Ramsey County, it has also enabled the state and federal government to save hundreds of thousands of dollars on more expensive institutional care. 
   Because of recent budget cuts to the SSBG, Ramsey County has already reduced a wide range of services: homemaker services; chemical dependency and mental health counseling services; budget counseling and money management for adults with chemical dependency or mental health issues; chemical dependency education and prevention services; parenting support programs for families in the child protection system; parenting support programs for teenage mothers; targeted efforts in neighborhoods with high rates for child abuse and neglect; monthly grants to help families with a developmentally disabled child continue to provide in-home care for that child; and semi-independent living programs for elderly and disabled individuals to live in their homes and not have to move into residential treatment facilities. These are programs that have already been cut. If SSBG funding is cut further, Ramsey County will be forced to additionally reduce funding for Meals on Wheels, transportation services for seniors, outpatient mental health services, sexual abuse services, employment and training programs, and social adjustment programs for Hmong and Lao immigrants. If the proposed SSBG funds cuts are not restored, all of these programs, and all of the people they serve, will suffer. 
   So you tell me, which of these programs deserves to go, because something is going to have to if this provision passes. Who do you think we should turn away? Maybe low-income families with children? Or perhaps the elderly or disabled? You tell me, who should be the one who goes to bed hungry, or sick and alone, or just plain afraid that they won't make it through tomorrow? 
   I have to explain that this program is particularly important to my own state of Minnesota, where the proposed cut to the SSBG will have an immediate and deeply felt effect. Minnesota communities are supposed to receive 30 million dollars in FY 2001 under the current law; if the allocation is cut to 600 million dollars as proposed, Minnesota will lose more than 19 million dollars in funding, nearly two-thirds of its grant, receiving only 10.4 million dollars in FY 2001. Most states would feel similar cuts if SSBG funding were to be cut from 1.7 billion dollars to just 600 million dollars. 
   Minnesota is unique among all the states, though, because, by law, SSBG funds by-pass the governor and flow directly to the local level. The state cannot touch the money--they can neither add or subtract funds from the block grant. Minnesota law further requires local levels programs to run balanced books, which means that they cannot carry any budget surplus from one year to the next. So what that means is that if these cuts to the SSBG go through, the state will not be able to help offset any of the lost funds with funds from other sources, the local level programs will have no budget surpluses to fall back on, and these federal level cuts will be reflected immediately at the local level in program cuts. It would mean substantial reductions, or perhaps even the elimination of local Minnesota programs like senior congregate dining, meals-on-wheels, and a host of other local community based programs. It would also mean cuts in health and substance abuse programs, as Minnesota is one of only seven states in the country that relies more heavily on its Title XX grant than its SAMSA grant to fund mental health services. Furthermore, because the law governing the flow of SSBG funds in Minnesota would actually have to be rewritten to offset the federal funding cuts, the state would not be able to make up the funding shortfall to the counties until the Minnesota legislature comes into session next year and passes new legislation. 
   So some of my colleagues may be saying to themselves, well that's unfortunate for Minnesota, but in my home state we'll be able to supplement the cuts with other money--maybe the money we got from the tobacco settlement, or perhaps we will just transfer money from our TANF surplus. First, let's talk about the tobacco settlements: in some states, anti-smoking and other health needs will receive first priority for use of the settlement funds, not unanticipated reductions in SSBG funds. Also, some states have already enacted legislation committing the tobacco funds for other purposes. 
   Okay, well, then if not the tobacco settlement funds, then maybe the TANF surplus funds, since states will be able to transfer up to 4.25 percent of their surplus to SSBG. Except, according to an analysis done by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, there are 37 states that wouldn't be able to offset the funding cuts proposed in the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill by transferring TANF funds. More importantly, though, we send the wrong message to the states when we tell them to rob Peter to pay Paul. States should not have to steal funds from one social services funding stream, in this case TANF, to replace funds rescinded from another social services funding stream, the SSBG. 
   In this era of prosperity, of enormous budget surpluses and huge government windfall, of tax breaks and increased defense spending, it simply defies logic  to further reduce SSBG funding. Now is the time for us to invest in meeting the needs of our most vulnerable citizens-- the very young and the very old, the disabled, and the poor. It would be a terrible breach of faith with the states, but more importantly with the people who live in those states, if we continue to raid the Social Services Block Grant. 
   And while I am pleased that my colleagues have pledged to restore funding to this program, as well as several other critically important social service programs, I would just say again that it should never have come to this in the first place. These programs are too important to our most vulnerable citizens, and we have a responsibility to see to it that they are funded first, not last. It should simply be a matter of course that these programs are always fully funded, and the fact it isn't, that we still have to come out here year after year to fight the same fight to protect these programs, is ridiculous. In this era of budget surpluses and tax cuts, the fact that programs to aid the elderly, the disabled, the young, and the poor as somehow continue to remain vulnerable to spending cuts ridiculous. I am pleased that we now have the budget chairman's promise to restore these cuts, although I hope that other, equally important programs don't fall victim to these funding reduction in their stead in conference. It is crucial that we maintain our end of the deal we struck with the states, and with the people who live in those states, and protect these programs. Again, I thank Senator STEVENS, Senator ROTH, and Senator GRAHAM for their efforts to protect these programs, and hope that we see a final Appropriations bill that fully funds all of these critical programs that serve our most vulnerable citizens. 
   I thank Senators HARKIN and SPECTER, and also Senator STEVENS and Senator GRAHAM of Florida, for their work. 
   My understanding is we will be able to get this resolved; that we will be able in the conference committee to work hard to restore the funding for the social services block grant program. 
   I ask my colleague from Iowa; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. I say to both Senators that there are two issues here that are important to me. I understand the pressure under which both of my colleagues have labored. I thank them for their support. 
   We went through this debate last year, and we had a vote. I came out here with Senator GRAHAM on an amendment to restore the funding. 
   The notion that we would actually be cutting the block grant program--which is Meals on Wheels, child care services, and help and assisted living, help for people to stay at home, elderly people to stay at home, people with disabilities to stay at home--to me is so shortsighted. 
   There is very moving testimony from a lot of people in Minnesota in the human services area who talk with great passion about what these cuts would mean--especially in a State such as Minnesota where we automatically pass this money directly to the county level. We wouldn't be able to make up for it. The consequences of these proposed cuts in the block grant program would be just unbelievable. To cut the social services block grant program by over $1 billion would have a very harsh impact. 
   I have complete confidence that this funding will be restored in conference committee. This is all about the heart and soul of the Senate. 
   I do not believe with a flush economy, and yet another revised estimate of the amount of money we are going to have for surplus, that we would be cutting these kinds of programs that are so important to vulnerable citizens around the country. In particular, I speak for people in Minnesota. 
   The health committee voted unanimously to increase the authorization of title I to $15 billion. Right now, this bill we are considering provides for $8.36 billion. That is a little more than 50 percent of what we called for in the authorizing committee. 
   The interesting thing is this was a unanimous vote in the health committee. This is about a $400 million increase from last year. That is what we have here in the appropriations bill on the floor. The House gave almost no increase to this valuable program. This amendment says: Look; let's at least bump this up to $10 billion. 
   I point out at the very beginning that the title I program is one of the most important education programs that we support at the Federal level; and the title I program allocates money back to our communities to help those students who are especially disadvantaged. The title I program is a very targeted program. It goes to the lowest income school districts--be they urban, rural, or inner suburban. The title I program allocates money back to our local communities and our local school districts to provide assistance for children, whether it be more assistance for reading, whether it be more help vis-a-vis prekindergarten, or whether it be afterschool programs. 
   I also want to point out to my colleagues that the title I program is funded at best at about one-third of the level, so we really haven't even come close to backing up this mission and this commitment to children with the resources. I have great appreciation for what my colleagues have done in this appropriations bill, but for some reason title I really stays very low. 
   Again, our committee, the HELP committee, unanimously voted to authorize this up to $15 billion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am happy to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have just begun. In the spirit of cooperating with management, I am pleased to lay the amendment aside if the Senator wishes. But I will say to my colleague, I probably need about half an hour to make my case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Pennsylvania. That will be fine with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague from Vermont, Senator LEAHY, asked for a few moments to speak in regard to this issue before us. 
   I ask unanimous consent the Senator from Vermont be allowed to speak and I then follow him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask my colleagues, Senators SPECTER and HARKIN, are we to go until 12:30 p.m. and then break for the caucuses; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I can in 4 minutes start to describe a little bit of this amendment. I ask unanimous consent that when we come back from the caucuses, my amendment be in order. I will not be able to do this in 4 minutes. Other colleagues have spoken. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to both of my colleagues, I appreciate there are a number of amendments. I will take time just to make sure colleagues know what this amendment is about. I do not intend to take a long time on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, having been a teacher for years, in 1 minute I do not know how to summarize an amendment that is all about education and kids.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I do not think it will probably be necessary. At least on my part, I think within a half an hour I can make my case for the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would be pleased to accommodate my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from New Hampshire, I would like to send an amendment to the desk that I ask be laid aside, if I could. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This is just an amendment to be filed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I could clarify---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President and colleagues--Democrats and Republicans alike--just for a little bit of context for this amendment, this amendment deals with an increase in funding not to where we should be but at least a step forward for the title I program. 
   When the HELP Committee authorized the title I program, we actually voted to increase the authorization of title I to $15 billion. The interesting thing is that every Democrat and every Republican on the HELP Committee supported this increase. Every Democrat and every Republican supported the increase to authorize up to $15 billion. 
   As a matter of fact, during the floor debate on May 1, the majority leader himself, Senator LOTT, said:  
   This is a $15 billion reauthorization bill. Good work has been done by this committee.  
   We have a budget resolution that doesn't work. We are not able to adequately fund important priorities. Given the emphasis on tax cuts, given the significant allocation of money for the Pentagon, we have robbed ourselves of our capacity to invest in children and in education. 
   What this amendment does is essentially say that the appropriation would go from $8.36 billion for title I up to $10 billion for title I. Right now, all we have in this appropriations bill is a $400 million increase, when the HELP Committee authorized $15 billion. We are trying to bump up the appropriation so we can do better for our children. 
   What I was saying on the floor earlier is important: The title I program is one of the heart-and-soul Federal programs. This is targeted money that goes to primarily low- and moderate-income communities and low- and moderate-income students. It is assistance for the schools and the school districts for more reading instruction, for afterschool programs, for prekindergarten programs, for more teaching assistance. It is a very important program. The title I program has made a difference, even as severely underfunded as it is. 
   One of the reasons I bring this amendment to the floor--I have continued, week after week, month after month, it seems year after year, to come to the floor and talk about the need to provide more funding for the title I program--is that right now this program is funded, maybe, at the 30-35 percent level, so that 65 or 70 percent of the children who could benefit don't benefit. These children come from primarily low-income families. These are kids who have been severely disadvantaged. We are trying to give these schools and the teachers and, most importantly, the children some additional help so they can do better. 
   In my State of Minnesota, for example, typically the situation is that if a school has less than 65 percent of the students on a free or reduced school lunch program--say it is only 60 percent--there is no money for the school because we have run out of the money. We have run out of financial assistance. 
   The HELP Committee Democrats and Republicans are on record saying we ought to authorize this to $15 billion. The majority leader came out and said: Authorize the $15 billion; good work. But we have a budget resolution that has so constrained the work of appropriators that we have not made the investment in education. This is precisely the opposite direction of where Americans want us to go. People want more investment in education. Over 60 percent of the American people say that we spend too little on education. The Federal share has gone from 12 cents to 7 cents on the dollar. 
   The title I program is a flexible program that allows our school districts to use this money to provide help for these children so they can do better. One hundred percent of major city schools use title I funds to provide professional development and new technology, 76 percent of title I funding to support afterschool activities. Ninety percent of the school districts use title I funds to support family literacy and summer school programs. Sixty-eight percent of the school districts use title I funds to support preschool programs. 
   Again, if we look at Rand Corporation studies and others, they tell us that even as a vastly underfunded program, title I is making a difference. 
   In my own home State of Minnesota, the Brainerd public school district, which is in greater Minnesota--that means outside the metro area--has a 70 to 80 percent success rate in accelerating students in the bottom 20 percent of their class to at least average in their classes following 1 year of title I-supported reading programs. 
   We are funding title I at only one-third the level of what is needed to help children in this country. Forty percent of America's fourth graders are still reading below grade level. Forty-eight percent of students from high-income families will graduate from college; the percentage from low-income families who will graduate from college is 7 percent. At the very time that we know that a college education is the key to economic success, more than at any other time in the history of our country during the years of our lives, only 7 percent of children from low-income families will graduate from college. 
   There are dramatic differences in terms of the resources of school districts. My friend Jonathan Kozol, who continues to write beautiful, powerful, and important books about children, sent me some figures from the New York metropolitan area where in the city maybe it is $8,000 per pupil per year that is spent, and in some of the suburbs it is as high as $23,000 per pupil. There are dramatic differences in terms of which schools are wired and which schools aren't; which schools have the technology, which schools don't; which schools can recruit teachers and pay much better salaries, which schools can't; which schools have the support services for students, which schools don't; which schools have the best textbooks and the best lab facilities and which schools do not. 
   I will only say this one more time because it sounds so much like preaching, but this is the best point I can make as a Senator. It came from my visit to the South Bronx to the Mott Haven community about 2 weeks ago with Jonathan Kozol, meeting with the children at PS-30 and with Ms. Rosa, the principal. My colleagues would love this woman. She will not give up on these children. 
   I say to my colleagues, vote for this amendment for some additional help for title I which means additional help for these children, not because if you invest in these children when they are younger and give them this help they are more likely to graduate from high school, that is true; not because if they graduate from high school they are less likely to wind up in prison, that is true; not because if you invest in these children and provide a little bit more help, say, for example, in reading, that they are more likely to graduate and more likely to be productive and more likely to contribute to our economy, that is true. I am telling the Senate, this amendment deserves our support because the vast majority of these children are all under 4 feet tall. They are all beautiful. They deserve our support, and we ought to be nice to them. That is why we should vote for this. 
   I believe this is a theological, spiritual amendment. I do not understand how it can be that we are not investing more money in education and children. I cannot understand why, when we have some proven programs that are so targeted and so helpful to vulnerable children in this country, they are so vastly underfunded. I do not understand our distorted priorities. 
   We seem to have plenty of money for tax cuts, even tax cuts for wealthy and high-income families. We have plenty of money for the Pentagon. Fine. OK. But why can't we, when we are talking about surpluses and about an economy that is booming, make more of an investment in programs that provide support for these children. 
   What about our national vow of equal opportunity for every child? I don't get it. I don't get it any longer. I have been a Senator for almost 10 years. I do not understand how it can be, when the polls show that people want us to invest more in education, when we have record economic performance and we are talking about surpluses and not deficits, and when we all go to schools and we are with children--and we all like to have our pictures taken with children--that we cannot make more of an investment in these children? 
   I am not talking about a new program. I am not talking about a program that has not had a proven record of success. I am talking about the title I program. I am talking about a program that is vastly underfunded. I am just saying we ought to at least get the appropriation up to $10 billion. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time just to hear what my colleagues might say in opposition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I hope the Senator from New Hampshire and all Senators understand this point clearly. This amendment does not call for an additional $10 billion in appropriations. This amendment just simply says we should go from $8.36 billion to $10 billion--a slight increase. It is not an additional $10 billion. 
   Second, my colleague from New Hampshire and every Republican Senator and every Democratic Senator on the health committee voted to authorize title I to $15 billion.  
   Can I repeat that? 
   Every single Member of the health committee--Democrat and Republican alike--voted to authorize title I to $15 billion, and the majority leader came out here on the floor and said:  
   This is a $15 billion reauthorization bill; Good work has been done by this committee.  
   If my colleague thought that the title I program was such a miserable failure--and I intend to certainly take that argument on in a moment since I don't think there is a shred of evidence to support it--then I don't understand why my colleague and all the Republicans on the health committee and the majority leader said that they supported an authorization up to $15 billion. This amendment just tries to get it from $8.36 billion up to $10 billion. 
   Third, in regard to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, I sure would like for you folks to bring that bill out to the floor. I have been waiting for my Republican colleagues to bring the Elementary and Secondary Education Act to the floor. I have a lot of amendments. I am ready for the debate on education. You pulled the bill from the floor, and I would love 
   it if you would bring it back. 
   My colleague, the Senator from New Hampshire, talks about how the title I program has been such a miserable failure. The largest gains in test scores over the past 30 years have been made by poor and minority students. One-third to one-half of the gap between affluent whites and their poor and minority counterparts closed during this time. The Center on Education Policy 2000 report, a study by the Rand Corporation, linked these gains to title I and other investments in education and social programs. The final report of the National Assessment of Title I by the U.S. Department of Education showed that national assessment of education progress scores for 9-year-olds in the Nation's highest poverty schools have increased over the past 10 years by nine points in reading and eight points in math. 
   The Council of Greater City Schools shows that 24 of the Nation's largest schools were able to decrease the number of fourth grade title I students achieving in the lowest percentile by 14 percent in reading, and 10 percent in math. 
   I say to my colleague from New Hampshire that is pretty remarkable, given the fact we don't even fund this program except at a 30-percent level. We severely underfund the program. We make hardly any investments in pre-K education. 
   The Federal Government and the Senate ought to be a player in getting money to the local communities so we can have not custodial but development child care--so that when children come to kindergarten they are not so far behind. 
   We don't make that investment. 
   We don't make the investment in health coverage. We still have millions of children without health care coverage. When they come to school with abscessed teeth, they cannot learn. Is it any wonder? They live in communities where their parents can't afford housing, and they have to move three, four, or five times a year because we don't make the investment in affordable housing. 
   My colleagues, in the face of our failure to do anything about the grinding poverty in the country, in the face of our failure to invest in the title I program, in the face of our miserable failure to invest in education, my colleague from New Hampshire comes out here and says this has been a miserable failure when I can cite reports showing that title I has made a real difference. 
   Colleagues, 46 percent of title I funds go to the poorest 15 percent of all schools in America. 
   When the Senator from New Hampshire says--and I agree with him--that it is just outrageous if a school has a 60-percent low-income population and there may be no money, this is why: Because it is so severely underfunded. 
   We have one group of low-income children in a zero sum game relationship to another group of low-income children. 
   It is severely underfunded. Seventy-five percent of title I funds go to schools where the majority of children are poor. The General Accounting Office estimates that title I has increased funding to schools serving poor children by 77 percent. It is going up. 
   This is a targeted investment that can make a huge difference. Yet even with the increases, we are only reaching one-third of the children who could use our help. 
   By the way, I would like to say this to every Senator before you vote on this amendment. If your staff is looking at this debate, and they are going to be reporting back to you on 
   how to vote, I will tell you: Go back to your States and meet with the educators. Talk to people in your school districts. They will tell you they need more money for the title I program. They will tell you they are interested in a whole range of issues. Senator BINGAMAN is going to be talking about some of those. 
   Again, just looking at where the money goes, 100 percent of the city schools use title I funds to provide professional development and new technology. Does that sound like a flawed program? Ninety-seven percent use title I funds to support afterschool activities. Does that sound like a mistake? Ninety percent of the school districts use title I funds to support family literacy and summer school programs. Do you want to vote against that? Sixty-eight percent use title I funds to support preschool programs. Do you want to vote against that? 
   The title I program has been a remarkably good program given the realities of these children's lives. 
   I didn't quite add it up. But I think what my colleague from New Hampshire was saying is we spent $4 billion a year, or thereabouts, for title I programs over the last 30 years. I say to the Senator that is not a bad investment. The largest group of poor citizens in the United States of America are poor children. There are 14 million poor children in America today. Twenty percent of all the children in our country are growing up poor today. Fifty percent of those children are children of color. I don't think it is too much to provide a little bit more help for these children. 
   When you go to these schools, you meet people who do not give up. You meet principals and teachers who do not give up on these kids. You wonder how they do it. But they are so dedicated. And the largest part of title I money goes to the children of the youngest ages. 
   I will repeat what I said before. Make the investment and provide the additional help for these children because they are small. They are little. Most of them are under 4 feet tall. They are beautiful. 
   We ought to help them. 
   I rest my case, although I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for his remarks. I always enjoy discussions with him on education. I don't want to try to score debate points. I cannot resist, though, saying to my colleague, on the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, when he says that we pulled the bill because the minority wanted to impose a political agenda, it is interesting; a political agenda means the minority wanted to put some amendments on this bill that they, the majority, didn't want to have to vote on; therefore, it becomes a political agenda. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be pleased to yield, if the Senator will be brief. I will yield on my time because I know he has no time. But I want to reserve a little time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from New Hampshire, first of all, the campaign finance reform amendment of course was initiated by Senator MCCAIN, a well-known Republican, and Senator FEINGOLD, a well-known Democrat. I support the amendment. Do you want to know something. The more I think about it, the more I think it is very relevant to education, because I think if we don't clean up this sick system, the way in which big money dominates, then we are never going to have Senators voting for children and education. They are going to continue to vote for the big, huge, economic interests. So I say, actually I can't think of a more important amendment to an education bill. 
   This is the debate we have been having. The Senate, over the years, has been a very special institution. Part of it is because of the Senators' right to debate and the Senators' right to introduce amendments. That is what the Senate is about. It is not a political agenda, I say to my colleague. It is just an agenda that makes my colleague from New Hampshire and other Republicans uncomfortable. They don't want to vote on campaign finance reform or sensible gun control measures. I would argue, in case anybody has taken a look at violence in the schools, that sensible gun control amendments are very relevant to the lives of children, very relevant to education. 
   As to the title I program, I want to respond to my colleague's comments about the achievement of low-income children. Honest to goodness, first my colleague came out and said it has been a miserable failure; it hasn't work. Then I cited study after study showing title I has made a difference. Then my colleague retreats and comes back with another argument which is: Well, yes, low-income children are now doing better in some of the reading scores and mathematics scores, but they are only getting back to the 1993 level. 
   The truth is, here you have a title I program that is vastly underfunded--30-percent level. Here you have a House of Representatives and Senate, too dominated by the way in which money dominates politics, that have been unwilling to make the investment in children, unwilling to make the investment in 
   their skills and intellect and character and, I argue, the health of children, and therefore there are too many poor children. I think it is a scandal that the poorest group of citizens in America today is children. Too many children literally grow up under the most difficult circumstances. Therefore, is anybody surprised the title I program does not perform a miracle? 
   The title I program does not mean those children succeed, I say to my colleague from Iowa, who come from poor communities, whose parents are not high income, who had none of the encouragement, none of the great preschool programs other children have, who live in families who have to move four times because they cannot afford the housing, who live in neighborhoods where there is too much violence, who don't have an adequate diet, who don't have adequate health care. Guess what, those children don't yet do as well in reading scores and mathematics scores. And you want to pin that on the title I program, even though the title I program has helped them do a little better? 
   If any Senator wants to vote against this amendment on the basis of that kind of argument, so be it. But I certainly hope you will not. 
   Finally, I get a little nervous with all this discussion about accountability and achievement because I think my good friend from New Hampshire has the causality backwards. He is putting the cart before the horse. Absolutely, let's put the focus on achievement. Let's put the focus on accountability. But this is my question. Don't you think, at the same time that we put the focus on the achievement, and the same time we put the focus on the accountability, we also need to make sure every child has the same opportunity to achieve? Why is it my colleagues are so silent on that point? They want to rush to vouchers, they want to rush to privatizing education, they want to rush to saying all these children have to achieve and we are going to hold everybody accountable if your children don't achieve. But they don't want to make sure every child has the same opportunity to achieve. 
   Let's not hold our children responsible for our failure to invest in their achievement and their future. This title I program is but one small program that doesn't lead to heaven on Earth, but makes it a little bit better Earth on Earth for some of these children. 
   I say to my colleagues, I think we ought to vote for this amendment. I think we ought to do better by these children. This amendment, in its own small way, just going from $8.3 billion to $10 billion, not even close to the $50 billion that the HELP Committee unanimously voted to authorize appropriations up to, at least makes a bit of a difference. 
   Your school districts are for this, your principals and teachers in the  trenches are for this, and most importantly, we ought to provide these children with some additional help. They deserve it. 
   I yield the floor, and I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield the Senator from New Hampshire 30 seconds of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield the Senator from Iowa 1 minute of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is an easy question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My answer would certainly be no, since I talked about what the Senate was about and talked about those other amendments are terribly important amendments that affect the lives of children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. How much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield 30 seconds to my colleague from New Hampshire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield back the remainder of my time. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to waive the Budget Act and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
   I ask one question so the Senator can finish a very moving presentation. When I am in schools, which is every 2 weeks, I always have a discussion with the students about education, and I ask them what makes for good education. They talk about good teachers, and they talk about smaller class size. I ask my colleague, Is that the experience the Senator has? 
   This is an amendment for all Senators who spend time in schools with kids in their States because I deal with students over and over again. This is what we need; does the Senator hear the same thing? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my amendment simply says we take the title I and move the appropriation up from $8.36 billion to $10 billion. 
   Our committee, the HELP committee, authorized the full $15 million for the title I program. Title I money is used for additional help for kids in reading, for afterschool programs, for prekindergarten programs, for professional development. This is a program which helps especially low-income children throughout the country. This is a program in which the last half decade has made a difference. 
   As I said earlier, it is not Heaven on Earth, but it is a better Earth on Earth. We provide more help for kids. This is a very important program. I say to my colleague from Washington, again, if you go to your school districts and schools and talk to teachers and parents, they all say they need more help right now. This program is funded at about a 30-percent level. Many more children all across the country could be helped by this program if we were willing to make this investment. 
   I said it earlier; I will say it a final time. Vote for additional help for these  kids, mainly the younger children, not because it makes them more productive--it will; not because it prevents them from dropping out of school--it will help; not because it makes a difference in terms of not dropping out of school or winding up in prison--that is true. Vote for it because the vast majority of them are under 4 feet tall. They are all beautiful and we ought to be nice to them. We ought to be able to provide them with some more assistance. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to draw attention to the barbaric practice of torture. Yesterday--June 26th, was the 3rd annual U.N. International Day in Support of Torture Victims and Survivors. The Torture Abolition and Survivors Support Coalition has designated this week, June 26th--June 30th, the week of commemoration of torture victims and survivors. Mr. President, colleagues, we should take this week to honor victims of torture, but more importantly, we should use this week as a reminder that together, we can make our world torture-free. 
   Torture has no ideological, geographical, or other boundaries--survivors of torture are everywhere. The practice of torture is one of the most serious human rights abuses of our time. According to the 1999 Amnesty International report, torture and other forms of severe ill-treatment conducted by government security forces, or condoned by other government officials, occurred in 125 countries last year. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, I am extraordinarily proud of the Center for Victims of Torture in Minneapolis, which since 1985 has been doing pioneering work in addressing the complex needs of survivors of torture. And while we have come a long way in the last fifteen years in raising awareness of torture and helping torture victims, there is still much more we should and could be doing to stop this terrible practice. 
   My own agenda in the Senate has included a number of human rights initiatives, including the sponsorship of the original Torture Victims Relief Act in 1998, which authorized funding to support foreign and domestic treatment centers in providing services to the millions of survivors of torture worldwide and the estimated 400,000 survivors in this country alone. Repressive governments frequently torture those who are defending human rights and democracy in their own country, and the Torture Victims Relief Act recognizes the debt we owe to these courageous people who have made such a sacrifice for cherished principles. 
   It is hard to imagine that in today's world torture still exists, but it does. In solidarity with all victims of torture, I ask you to join me this week in honoring them by helping raise awareness about torture worldwide. All week the Torture Abolition and Survivors Support Coalition will be requesting meetings with members and staff, and conducting seminars to educate the public about torture. I urge you meet with the Coalition or to attend a seminar to learn the truth about the brutality of this crime. Educating yourself and the public about this terrible human rights abuse is the best way to honor its victims. Together we can end this barbaric practice. Together we can put a stop to torture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today which will add the White Earth Tribal & Community College of Mahnomen, Minnesota to the list of 1994 Land Grant Institutions. Designation as a 1994 land grant institution would give White Earth Tribal & Community College access to critical federal funding and resources made available under the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 as well as providing eligibility for other programs. 
   Tribal colleges provide their students and their communities at-large with otherwise non-existent opportunities. They serve as library facilities for historical tribal documents--things like the oral history of elders that might otherwise be lost in time. They promote pride in their shared tribal background, and they provide unique opportunities for learning about this background. They are a center of learning for the entire community--not only learning about their tribal history, but also the basic learning that enables some to continue adult education, some to go on to 4-year institutions and some to finish graduate school. The colleges also offer a place for alcohol abuse workshops, job training seminars, and in some cases even day care centers. These colleges can offer benefits for all people in their communities, which is why we should offer our help to those tribal colleges who demonstrate their ability to serve their students and their community in this way. 
   The purpose of the 1994 land-grant act was to enable tribal colleges to receive funds to build their programs, enhance their infrastructure, and educate their communities. However, new tribal colleges, founded since 1994 are not automatically eligible for land grant status, they must be so designated by legislation. One such college is the White Earth Tribal & Community College in Mahnomen, Minnesota. Founded in 1997, this college is now the center of learning for approximately 100 students. Their courses cover a wide range of material including math, history, computer science, and business communications. The college is currently seeking accreditation and is a member of the American Indian Higher Education Consortium (AIHEC). White Earth Tribal & Community College is also recognized by its peers as an important place of higher learning. Other local colleges, such as Moorhead State University, Northwest Technical College, and Northland Community and Technical College, accept its transfer credits. 
   Mr. President, we should offer this college the opportunity it deserves to expand and strengthen its efforts to enhance the lives of everyone around it. Giving White Earth Tribal & Community College the same federal land-grant status that we gave other tribal colleges in 1994 is a matter of basic equity. Adoption of this legislation would signal a willingness to continue our support of new tribal colleges in their efforts to enhance education in their communities.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, all of us thank Senator STEVENS and Senator BYRD for having a gathering this afternoon for Senator INOUYE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The Senator is right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague has the floor. But could I have my colleagues' forbearance for a 15-second request? 
   Mr. President, I would like to respond to some of what was said by the Senator from Oklahoma; in other words, after Senator ENZI, and go back and forth on this, pro-con. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I do not know quite where to start. My colleague from Oklahoma had said earlier, and both my friends from Wyoming and Arkansas had said, we ought to have a debate. We will. We ought to be focusing on this issue. We will focus on this issue. 
   There are many important issues we should focus on in the Senate. This is an important issue. I want to speak about it. In my State, by the way, two-thirds of senior citizens have no prescription drug coverage at all. I would like to focus on that issue. I would like to make sure 700,000 Medicare recipients have coverage. Education, title I--I would like to talk about a lot of different issues, but this issue is before us. I hope we will be able to speak to many different issues in several months to come. 
   First, my colleague, Senator ENZI, complains about the rule, but there is no final rule. It is not final yet. That is the point. OSHA, which is doing exactly what it should do, Secretary Jeffress is doing exactly what he should do by law--holding hearings, getting input--they are going to issue a final rule. They have not issued a final rule. 
   My colleague jumps to conclusions and joins the effort over 10 years to block a rule, but the rule has not been made. There may be significant changes. When my colleague complains about the rule, let's be clear, they have not finished the process. We do not know what the final rule is yet. But for some reason, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are so anxious to block this basic worker protection that they already feel confident about attacking a rule that does not exist. 
   Second, my colleagues say that OSHA is rushing. 
   Senator HARKIN was quite right in saying to Senator NICKLES: Wait a minute, didn't this go back to Secretary Elizabeth Dole? Wasn't Secretary Dole the first to talk about the problem of repetitive stress injury and the need to provide some protection for working men and women in our country? This has been going on for a decade. And Senator JEFFORDS and OSHA and the administration are rushing? 
   By the way, I say to my colleagues, time is not neutral. From the point of view of people--I am going to be giving some examples because this debate needs to be put in personal terms. It is about working people's lives, from the point of view of people who suffer from this injury, from the point of view of people who are in terrible pain, from the point of view of people who may not be able to work, from the point of view of people who can have their lives destroyed because of this injury, because of our failure to issue a standard. We are not rushing. Can I assure all Senators that we are not rushing from their point of view? 
   Then my colleague talks about home office inspections. This is a red herring. We agree, OSHA agrees, they are not going to be inspecting home offices. Why bring up an issue that is not an issue? 
   My colleagues talk about the WRP, the work restriction protection, and all about the ways in which it will undercut State worker comp laws. But you know what, in our committee hearing, we heard from witnesses that it has no effect on workers comp laws. We will debate that more. But no one, no Senator should be under the illusion that OSHA is about to issue a rule that is going to undercut or overturn State comp laws. 
   Then I hear my colleague, my good friend, complain about OSHA's use of contractors. They have hearings all across the country. They hire people to help them go through all of the paperwork. They hire people so that we do not have unnecessary delay. That is exactly what they should be doing. Frankly, I think these arguments that we hear on the floor of the Senate are just arguments in trying to prevent OSHA from doing exactly what its job is. 
   What is its job? There are today 1.8 million workers who suffer from work-related MSDs and 600,000 workers who have serious injuries and lost work time. That is a lot of men and women who are in pain and who struggle because of these workplace injuries. 
   Elizabeth Dole, a Republican, Secretary of Labor, recognized this 10 years ago. For 10 years, some of my colleagues have done everything they know how to do to block OSHA from issuing a rule to protect working people in this country. They come up with all these arguments, complaining about a rule--but we do not know what the rule is--saying that OSHA is rushing--when we have been at this for a decade--talking about the horror of  home office inspections--which will not take place; there will be no home office inspections--and so on and so forth. 
   Frankly, I think this is nothing more than an effort to make sure there is no rule issued at all. Because you know what, we are not arguing about even what kind of rule. That is the irony of this debate. I hope it will not become a bitter irony. We are arguing over whether OSHA should be allowed to issue any rule. Some of my colleagues are so comfortable with the status quo. 
   We have 600,000 workers with serious 
   injuries, lost work time, and there are those who do not want OSHA to issue any rule. 
   Women workers--when you vote on this, one way or the other, remember women workers are particularly affected by these injuries. Women make up 46 percent of the overall workforce, but in 1998 they accounted for 64 percent of repetitive motion injuries, and they accounted for 71 percent of the reported carpal tunnel syndrome cases--women in the workplace, in pain, injured. We do not want to provide any protection? 
   I say to my colleagues, the only rush I see here is not OSHA's rush to provide some protection for working men and women, the only rush I see is the rush on the part of my colleagues to block OSHA from providing any protection. 
   Why the rush to block protection for working people in our country? That is my question. 
   The cost of these injuries to workers, employers, and the country as a whole is enormous. The worker compensation costs are estimated to be about $20 billion annually; overall costs, $60 billion. 
   I will have more to say about this later on in the debate, but when I hear about the nursing homes, and how if we have any kind of ergonomic standard, the nursing homes will go out of existence, I think of two things. No. 1, I wonder how many of my colleagues voted for the 1997 balanced budget amendment. I did not. But if you did, you ought to talk about a piece of legislation that was destined, given the draconian reductions in Medicare reimbursement, to play havoc especially with our hospitals and our nursing homes in rural America, and that is it. 
   Actually ergonomics programs save employers money because you prevent injuries, you cut worker compensation costs, you increase productivity, and you decrease employee turnover. I do not think that is really very difficult to grasp. 
   Let me repeat it. Ergonomics programs save employers money, save nursing homes money, because if you can prevent the injuries, you can cut the worker comp costs, you can increase productivity, and you can decrease employee turnover, which, by the way, is a huge problem in our nursing homes, as is the case with child care workers. 
   OSHA's proposed ergonomics rule would prevent about 300,000 injuries each year and save about $9 billion in worker compensation and related costs. I don't know, maybe you can come out with a figure of a little less or a little more, but that is significant. 
   Ergonomic injuries can be prevented. That is what is so outrageous about this amendment. Ergonomics programs implemented by employers, such as Ford Motor Company, 3M in my State of Minnesota, and Xerox Corporation, have significantly reduced injuries, lowered worker comp costs, and improved worker productivity. But only one-third of employers currently have effective programs. 
   On the House side, first of all, we have had the debate about whether or not there would be good science. Initially, back in 1999, we had an agreement between the Republicans and the Democratic leaders and the Clinton administration, which would fund a scientific study by the National Academy of Sciences of the scientific evidence on ergonomics with the understanding that OSHA's ergonomics standard would proceed. That was the understanding. 
   That understanding clearly no longer counts. All the discussion about how we needed good science obviously was not the issue. My colleagues are not interested in any of that. They are only interested in one thing: They want to block OSHA from issuing any kind of rule that would provide protection to these working people. 
   Again, 1.8 million workers suffer from work-related MSDs, 600,000 workers from serious injuries. My colleagues come out on the floor and make arguments that amount to nothing more than delay because they want to block OSHA from issuing any regulation. They don't even want to wait to see what the regulation is. They just want to block it. They are for the status quo, but the status quo is not acceptable because we ought to provide some protection for these women and men in the workplace. 
   I could, but I will not, spend time with a lot of stories. I want to give my colleagues some sense of what this debate means in personal terms. That is what it is really about. It is not about a rule because the rule has not been promulgated. We don't know what the rule is. It is not about a rush on the part of OSHA because, if we go back 10 years, it was Elizabeth Dole, a Republican, who was first talking about the problem with these injuries. It is not about the scope of the rule because we don't know what it is. It is about whether or not we are going to have political interference to block an agency which has the mandate and the mission of protecting working men and women in this country. It is also about people's lives. 
   I say this to my colleague from Wyoming, whom I like and enjoy as a friend, to the extent people get a chance to spend any time with one another here: 
   I think this debate will be a sharp debate because I think there are some real differences between Senators on this question that make a real difference. I cannot help but express my indignation on the floor of the Senate that when you have 600,000 workers seriously injured every single year because we have not issued any kind of ergonomic standard and because there is no protection for them, I find this effort to block OSHA from issuing any kind of rule or protection to be really unconscionable. I find it to be unconscionable because we are talking about people's lives. 
   Keta Ortiz is a New York City sewing machine operator. I will quote from her testimony, which was at one of the public hearings on OSHA's proposed ergonomic standard.  
   My name is Keta Ortiz. I was sewing machine operator, a member of UNITE Local 89 for 24 years. I was 52 years old in 1992 when my whole life came crashing down around me. 
   You know what a cramp is, right? A terrible pain, it lasts a couple of minutes. Imagine you got cramps so powerful and painful they woke you up every night. 
   My cramps lasted one or two hours, without relief. I woke up with hands frozen like claws and I had to soak them in hot water to be able to move my fingers. 
   I was awake two or three hours every night, often crying. Exhausted every day. But I had no choice but to work. In the beginning the pain got better on the weekend. Then it didn't.  
   By the way, Mr. President, I was just saying to a close friend this morning as I read Ms. Ortiz's testimony that having struggled with back pain, my definition of pain is when you can't sleep at night. That is the worst. You get through it during the day, but in the evening you can't sleep because of the pain, and that is real pain.  
   This agony lasted months, then a year, and then five long years. 
   There are not words to explain what went through my mind in those hours in the middle of the night. The desperation, the fear that eats at your mind. The terror I felt when I realized I was going to have to stop working and didn't have money to pay the rent. 
   I thought, ``When will this ever end? How can I support my child? God, why have you abandoned me?'' 
   I worked and worked through the pain, until I couldn't take it any more. Without work I was disoriented, very depressed, empty. I thought, ``I am useless, a vegetable.'' Negative thoughts invaded my mind and took over my days. 
   Who are these people who oppose an ergonomics standard? Have they ever worked in a factory? 
    Tell them it took me two and a half years before I saw my first workers' comp check. Tell them the operation I needed was delayed over two years by the insurance company ..... that I lost my and my family's health insurance. 
   Tell them that after dedicating so many years to my job, I destroyed my hands, damaged my mental health, and sacrificed the joy I felt in living. And I get barely $120 a week in workers' compensation payments.  
   Now, listening to Ms. Ortiz, I think this is a class issue. I think it is a class issue. I think that if these workers--these women and men like Ms. Ortiz--were sons and daughters, or brothers or  sisters, or our mothers and fathers and they were in the upper-income class, or professional class, there would be a hue and cry for an immediate rule to be issued by OSHA to protect them. But they are not the givers, the heavy hitters. This is a reform issue, too. They are not the players. I doubt whether Ms. Ortiz has contributed $500,000 in soft money--to either party, I say to my colleagues, so that I can make it clear this isn't aimed at any one individual Senator. I doubt whether she is maxed out at $2,000 a year in the primary and general election. I doubt whether she is enlisted as somebody who contributes $200 a year. I doubt whether she hires any lobbyist. But I have no doubt that she is a hard-working factory worker whose life has been destroyed. 
   I have no doubt that we ought to pass this so OSHA should be able to do its work. OSHA should be able to perform its mission of providing protection for workers. 
   I remember when OSHA legislation first passed in the early 1970s. I remember that there was a book I used to assign to students, I think, by Paul Brodeur, called ``Expendable Americans.'' I think it was about a group of chemical workers who were working and who basically lost their lives because of asbestos, and they struggled with asbestosis and other lung-related diseases. The author's thesis was that these were people who were expendable. 
   We should not make Ms. Ortiz and other working people expendable. We should pay attention when 1.8 million workers a year struggle because of this kind of disease, MSDs, and 600,000 workers are in real jeopardy, with serious injuries and lost work time. They should not be made expendable. 
   Janie Jones, UNITE Local 2645, Arkadelphia, AR, poultry plant worker:  
   Good Morning, my name is Janie Jones. I'm President of Local 2645. I am also a member of the joint Union-Management safety Committee. I work at the Petit Jean Poultry de-boning facility, in Arkadelphia, Arkansas. I've been employed there for 7 years. In 1994, I was diagnosed with Carpal Tunnel Syndrome. At the time of my injury I was de-boning thighs, since then I have been placed on numerous other jobs. 
   Let me describe a few of my previous jobs for you: 
   Breast pulling: the birds come down the dis-assembly line, we pull the breast from the bird, removing the skin as we do this. Approximately 9 birds a minute is required of the workers: one every seven seconds. 
   De-boning the thighs: six people used to do three different cuts to the thigh: arching, opening and de-boning. Now there are only three people doing these three cuts. Also, after the bone is taken from the thigh, a thigh-trimmer inspects and cuts out any bone that may be left. There used to be three people, and now one person cuts out the bone. But the line speed is still 28 per minute. 
   Now, I load the line. This means picking up the birds from a metal bin to my right and placing them on cone on a conveyor belt to my left. We are required to put 28-32 birds a minute on these cones. These birds are cold, sometimes frozen and they can weigh as much as six pounds. That's about 67,500 pounds that I have to reach and stretch to lift about 2 1/2 -5 feet every day. 
   When an injured worker goes to the nurse with pain and swelling, the nurse will usually treat the worker with a rub and arthritis cream and sends you back to your job. If you keep complaining, she'll also give you a heat pad, and then she'll send you back to your job. Then, if you still keep complaining, she'll do the rub, the heat pad, and send you to a light duty job. Sometimes, management then tells her they need this person on their old job, and she just agrees and they put the worker back on the job that injured them. 
   When workers are diagnosed with CTS by their own doctors, company will move you to another job which is not as fast-paced. But as soon as the pain gets better, they send you back to your old job, only to get worse again. This goes on until people can't take it anymore, and then they quit.  
   I say to my colleague from Arkansas that this is not a filibuster and I will be finished in a few minutes. I know he is anxious to speak. I want to put his mind at rest. 
   Let me give one more example, although if the debate goes on I can give you many, many examples. 
   This is the testimony of Eugenia Barbosa, Randolph, MA, an assembly line worker. By the way, this is testimony before OSHA during their public hearings when working men and women came and talked about their own lives in the hope that OSHA would be able to perform or fulfill its mission by law of providing some protection, which means issuing an ergonomics standard that can provide people some protection. My colleagues, through this amendment, want to block OSHA from issuing any standard--no standard, no help, no protection. 
   If you are not working at this kind of job, and you are not the one who is suffering from stress injury, it is easy to do. But for these workers, these people--I am a Senator from Minnesota and they are a big part of my constituency. They need the protection. That is why this debate is so important. It really is in the words of an old labor song by Florence Reece, wrote it, ``Which Side Are You On?'' This is a classic example. 
   I am on the side of Keta Ortiz and Janie Jones.  
   Eugenia Barbosa, Randolph, MA an assembly line worker:  
   Thank you for giving me this chance to come here today and share my story with all of you. My name is Eugenia Barbosa, an American citizen. I am an Injured Worker. 
   I came to America from Cape Verde with my family and started working at age 17 to help my mother and father. For the last 28 years of my life, I have worked in a factory that manufactures parts for major car companies. I worked in an assembly line making dashboard switches. 
   I produced 400 pieces or more per hour. To make the switches I used my thumb and forefinger to press and insert a rocker switch into the housing. To complete the dashboard switches, I assembled an additional piece using three springs, two pins, and plastic caps, also using my thumb and forefinger. 
   In 1991 I started feeling severe and constant pain in my right wrist. I was sent to the company doctor. I was given a splint and Motrin, and placed on light duty for two weeks. After two weeks I was sent back to my original position with a wristband for my right wrist, which I wore every day. 
   Between 1991 and 1995, I was in constant pain. When I spoke to management, they told me that they would decide when I was in enough pain to go to the doctor. The pain was so severe that I had to hang my arm while working to relieve some of the pain. I suffered emotionally and physically as the pain continued to get more severe.  
   That is what this debate is about.  
   In October 1995 my life changed. The pain was no longer in my right wrist; it was also in my right shoulder, arm, back, and neck. I told management about the pain which was so severe I couldn't even move. I was ignored. 
   Finally I was sent to the company doctor again. He gave me another splint to be used 24 hours a day, an elbow support and pain medication, and told me to do light modified work with my left hand. He also told me to rest my arm on an arm rest chair while working. The company was supposed to provide me with the arm rest chair but never did. 
   After 5 weeks I was called into my manager's office and was told it was time to remove my splint and go back to the assembly line. I was in so much pain that I started to cry. 
   The company put me on incentive work but with only my left hand to make 975 pieces an hour. I asked my manager why. He told me he didn't want to hear any garbage and that I should go back and do my job. 
   In March 1996 I started having pain in my left wrist, arm, shoulder, back and neck. It became so severe that I was rushed to the Emergency Room. The company doctor said there is nothing wrong with me. 
   I went to see another doctor who tested me and found that I had severe damage to my rotator cuff, radial nerve, and wrist. Since that time, I have had surgery three times, on my right shoulder, arm, and wrist. I still need surgery on my left shoulder and wrist. After my injury my life has complete changed for myself and for my family, and everyday I must deal with my pain. I am no longer able to work, I am now financially struggling to put my son through college, I'm unable to cook and clean for my family and even combing my hair and taking care of my own personal needs is now very difficult for me.  
   Their testimony was before an OSHA hearing on this ergonomics standard. 
   Elizabeth Dole, in 1990, tried to help these workers. We have been at it 10 years. Assistant Secretary Jeffress of OSHA is trying to move forward to issue a rule. They are doing the right thing. This is their mandate. This is what they are supposed to do under the law. 
   This amendment amounts to blatant political interference to prevent them from doing their job--which is to hold the hearings; which is to have careful deliberation; which is to decide on the final rule. They have not even decided on the final rule, but keep attacking a rule that doesn't exist, a final rule that will be reasonable and sensible but will provide protection to these workers--to these men and women all across the country. 
   Senators, Democrats and Republicans, there couldn't be a more important issue before us. This is a real clear  question of where you stand. I think we ought to stand for these working people. I think we ought to make sure that OSHA can do its job. I think there should be a rule that provides these workers with some protection. That is the right thing to do. 
   I urge you to oppose this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I took the floor to thank the Senator from California and to ask consent I be included as an original cosponsor. It is a very important amendment and directly connected to people's lives. I thank the Senator for her fine work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have documents printed in the RECORD to respond to some of the accusations regarding the Labor Department. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, one problem with this debate is some of my colleagues come to the floor and make these points. Frankly, there does need to be a response. 
   My good friend from Arkansas says that what will happen with this OSHA rule, dealing with repetitive stress injury, is it will do severe damage to workers comp laws in our States. 
   There are some 12 attorneys general who have said in no way--including one who testified in our subcommittee--will that happen, including the attorney general from Arkansas who has said this will not impact workers compensation laws. 
   Then my colleagues say, this is a rush, they are rushing to promulgate a rule. It was Elizabeth Dole who, as Secretary of Labor, first pointed out that we needed to have an ergonomics rule because of the injuries taking place. My colleagues believe that this is a rush, though we have 600,000 workers every year who are severely injured. 
   I say to Senators, it is surprising to me when there is so much pain, when so many workers are injured, when they can no longer work, when they cannot sleep at night, when it has damaged families, when so many of the workers are women, that my colleagues don't want OSHA to do its job. The mission of OSHA is to protect workers. I am proud of the fact that OSHA is trying to promulgate this rule. I view this amendment as being nothing but blatant, political interference against this agency doing exactly the job it ought to do. 
   The same Senators who say OSHA is rushing after 10 years to promulgate a rule to protect workers, to have a safer workplace, they also believe we are rushing tonight to provide prescription drug benefits for senior citizens. Where have Senators been? On another planet? In Minnesota, 65 percent of senior citizens have no prescription drug coverage. It is an important issue to their lives, their children, and their grandchildren. 
   Do I need to come to the floor and tell Members about people who are paying 50 or 60 percent of their monthly budget because of prescription drug costs? And then Members come on the floor and say: It is not time; we are rushing; we better not support this legislation. 
   I don't know when Members think the time will come. I think the time has come. I think Democrats think the time has come. I agree with my colleague, Senator DURBIN, this is a values debate. This is about where we stand. As a Senator from Minnesota, I stand with working people. I stand for a safer workplace. And I certainly stand for trying to help senior citizens meet prescription drug costs so they are able to get the prescription drugs that are so essential for their health. I need not say anything else. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that George Dowdull, a fellow for Senator BIDEN, be granted the privilege of the floor during consideration of the Labor-HHS appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Carlyn Lamia be granted the privilege of the floor during the debate on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I got a last-minute call from the Budget Committee, and we may have to work this amendment out. I will wait about 5 minutes before I offer the amendment. I am waiting for some last-minute wording. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, no, it is not. This amendment leaves several hundred million dollars out of the $900 million that would go to the southern Colombia military campaign. I will talk about the military and the right-wing violence groups and go through State Department reports and human rights reports about this. But in no way, shape, or form does this amendment say that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to. We are working on this final wording because we are trying to figure whether to do this out of emergency designation or whether we can do this in a different way. 
   What this amendment says is that we absolutely are committed to institutional building in Colombia; we are committed to helping out in every way, shape, or form, including interdiction and police action. 
   There are very serious concerns that have been raised by a whole range of religious groups. I have a list of hundreds of nongovernment organizations in Colombia, but a particular portion, $225 million, would go to this one military campaign in southern Colombia. This money instead would say--and this follows up on what General McCaffrey and others have said, which is that we also need to deal not just with interdiction but also the demand side in this country. 
   I say to the majority leader, I am going to be presenting compelling evidence about the huge gap in the number of people who are not getting any treatment. 
   We have to figure out a way to cut down on the demand side in our country so we will provide money for prevention and treatment programs in this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to the majority leader, I appreciate his comments and I did not want to interrupt him while he was speaking. 
   I will, in as thoughtful a way as possible, respond to some of his comments. I don't think there is any question that we need to deal with narcoterrorists. I don't really believe that is the issue. I will take time to develop this. 
   My colleague from New York wanted to speak. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to follow the Senator from North Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we are working on the final version of the amendment, but I will outline for colleagues what this amendment is about. I will send the amendment to the desk in a short while. 
   This amendment would essentially transfer $225 million--as I said to the majority leader, this is by no means an amendment that says we don't supply assistance to Colombia--from the Colombian military for purposes of the push into southern Colombia to the domestic drug treatment programs. 
   Specifically, this amendment would transfer funds to the substance abuse prevention and treatment block grant program to provide--I will marshal evidence to colleagues--desperately needed funds for State and local community-based programs and for drug treatment programs within a variety of different facilities, such as correctional facilities and other facilities in the country. 
   By the way, part of the argument that I present today is that we deal with this drug problem for sure, but there is a considerable amount of evidence that we don't want to all of a sudden militarize this whole package, especially with the record of the military in Colombia. 
   Moreover, we want to deal with the demand side in our country. By the way, I am sure the vast majority of people in the United States of America agree.  
   This amendment leaves substantial assistance for the Colombian Government and civil society, including all sorts of alternative development programs such as judicial reform and human rights programs. 
   I want to make this clear, given some of the comments of the majority leader. It also leaves extensive funding for interdiction, investigating, and prosecuting drug trafficking and money laundering, and for the counternarcotics effort of the Colombian national police, as well as for other counternarcotics programs in other Latin American countries. It doesn't cut 1 cent from any of that. 
   I want colleagues to know what they are voting on. It simply removes and transfers to more effective domestic use the resources in this particular bill destined for the Colombian Army's push into southern Colombia. 
   Since 1989, virtually all U.S. assistance to Colombia has officially been intended to fight illicit drug production and trafficking. The majority leader comes to the floor and speaks as if we have not been making this effort. But what is sold as a war on drugs to the Congress and the American public is far more complex. This is where I dissent from the majority leader. This is much more complex than just a war dealing with drug production and trafficking. 
   Colombia today is embroiled in the hemisphere's largest and longest civil war with the military increasingly linked to paramilitary death squads. 
   The majority leader says this is just a matter of whether or not we are serious about the war on drugs. That is not what this amendment deals with. I am serious about the war on drugs. I am serious about interdiction. I am serious about getting the assistance to Colombia for that. But when the majority leader says: I am concerned about human rights, he then quickly brushes this aside. 
   We need to understand that there is a civil war in Colombia. There is a military link to paramilitary death squads with massive corruption and widespread human rights atrocities. The rebel insurgency has also expanded throughout large sections of the country, and innocent civilians have been killed by these rebels as well. Colombia now has the third largest internally displaced population in the world. 
   Before I go any further, since we are now by a 7-to-1 ratio going to change our assistance from police to military--that is what worries me with American advisers--let me talk about the military. 
   Let me, first of all, quote from the 1999 country reports on human rights practices released by the U.S. Department of State, February 25, 2000.  
   Paramilitary groups and guerrillas attack at increasing levels unarmed civilians expected of loyalty to an opposing party in the country. 
   Government forces continue to commit numerous serious abuses, including extrajudicial killings, at a level that was roughly similar to that of 1998. Despite some prosecutions and convictions, the authorities rarely brought officers of the security forces and the police charged with human rights offenses to justice, and impunity remains a problem. At times, the security forces collaborated with paramilitary groups that committed abuses. 
   Paramilitary groups and guerrillas were responsible for the vast majority of political and extrajudicial killings during the year. Throughout the country, paramilitary groups killed, tortured, and threatened civilians suspected of sympathizing with guerrillas with an orchestrated campaign of terrorizing them into fleeing their homes thereby depriving guerrillas of civilian support.  
   This report goes on. It basically says you have the military directly linked to these paramilitary groups which have committed widespread abuses of human rights and which have murdered innocent civilians. 
   I am all for interdiction. But I have to raise some questions about what we are doing all of a sudden in this package by dramatically changing the ratio of our support and giving much more to the military linked to these death squads. I don't think that is what our country is about. 
   Moreover, I don't believe the militarization of this package will work. I will get to that in a moment. 
   The majority leader says he is concerned about human rights. He said it in a word or two. But I would like to spend a little bit more time on this. 
   ``Human Rights Watch World Report 2000,'' in Colombia,  
   Paramilitary groups working in some areas with the tolerance and open support of the armed forces continue to massacre civilians, commit selected killings and special terror.  
   Democratic Senators and Republican Senators, now we are going to give this military, given this record, a massive infusion of money for a campaign in southern Colombia with American advisers with them. 
   Let me quote again from the ``Human Rights Watch World Report 2000.'' That is this year.  
   Paramilitary groups working in some areas with the tolerance and open support of the armed forces continue to massacre civilians, commit selected killings and special terror.  
   I argue that we should take this seriously. 
   Amnesty International, May 3, 2000:  
   Jes&#250;s Ramiro Zapata, human rights defender, was abducted and killed in Segovia, department of Antioquia. Several days earlier he reported that members of paramilitary groups had inquired into his whereabouts eight times in the latter part of April. On the 3rd of April, 500 paramilitaries reportedly entered the municipalities of Segovia and Remedios, setting up camp in Otu. The large number of Colombian National Army 4th Brigade troops stationed in the area did nothing to confront the illegal paramilitary group.  
   That is a report from Amnesty International. 
   I could go on. 
   The armed forces, the military that we are now going to provide money to with American advisers watching and standing by idly as paramilitary groups violate human rights, abduct innocent people and murder them, and we are going to be providing all of this support for this military? 
   Colleagues, if there had been some evidence over the last couple of years that there has been a change, that would be a different story. 
   This is a letter from a number of different religious organizations in the United States of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. They are opposed to this aid package for the push into southern Colombia, again with the same concern about the basic violation of human rights and the close connection between the armed services and these paramilitary terrorist organizations. 
   Mr. President, I also have here a document which is from Human Rights Nongovernmental Organizations and the Peace Movement In Colombia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will quote one section:  
   In this same vein, because we feel it is a mistake--  
   They are talking about this package--  
   we are obliged to reject the fact that Plan Colombia includes as one of its strategies, a military component that not only fails to resolve the narcotrafficking problem-- 
   I say to the majority leader and others, ``that fails to resolve this problem,'' but that is what we want to do, is resolve the problem--   
   but also endangers the efforts to build peace, increases illicit crop production, violates the Amazonic ecosystem, aggravates the humanitarian and human rights crisis, multiplies the problem of forced displacement, and worsens the social crisis with fiscal adjustment policies.  
   It is from a variety of about 70 nongovernment organizations, including religious organizations as well, in the country of Colombia. They are saying don't do this. Provide the assistance; we need it. Let's get it to the civic-building organizations, get it to the police, get it to some of the interdiction efforts, get it to some other economic development efforts. But don't put the money into the military for this campaign, given the military's record of torture, murder, and widespread violation of human rights. 
   In short, continuing to pursue our current Colombia counterinsurgency policy, cloaked under the veil of antinarcotics efforts--that is not what this is about. This is not about an antinarcotics effort. That is not what the vote is about. The vote is about whether or not you are going to put money into this military anti-insurgency effort. It risks drawing us into a terrible quagmire. History has repeatedly shown, especially in Latin America--just think of Nicaragua or El Salvador--that the practical effect of this strategy now under consideration is to militarize, to escalate the conflict, not to end it. That is, I think, the flaw in this package. 
   The call by the administration for a massive increase in counternarcotics assistance for Colombia this year puts the United States at a crossroads. Do we back a major escalation in military aid to Colombia that may worsen a civil war that has already raged for decades or do we pursue a more effective policy of stabilizing Colombia by promoting sustainable development, strengthening civilian democratic institutions, and attacking the drug market by investing in prevention and treatment at home--the demand side of the equation, right here in our own country? 
   The decision to fund the Colombian Army's push into southern Colombia is an enormous policy shift. It represents a 7-to-1 shift in funding from the Colombian police to the army. General McCaffrey says the purpose of Plan Colombia is to help the Colombian Army recover the southern part of the country now under guerrilla control. But honestly, if the purpose of this military aid is to stop drug trafficking, should some of that aid not target the northern part of Colombia as well? Something strange is going on here. If we want to deal with the people who are involved in drug trafficking, then one would think we would also have a campaign in the northern part of Colombia. There you have the right-wing death squads involved. Colombia is currently the largest recipient of U.S. security assistance. It is exceeded only by Israel and Egypt. Foreign aid and other assistance to Colombia, since 1995, now totals $739 million. Yet the administration's own estimate shows a 140-percent 
   increase in Colombia coca cultivation over the past 5 years. 
   Colombia now produces 80 percent of the world's cocaine. Drugs today are cheaper and more available than ever before. If the drug war was evaluated like most other Federal programs, I suspect we would have tried different strategies a long time ago. More weapons and more soldiers have not and cannot defeat the source of illegal narcotics. While the Colombian Government and people merit our assistance, more money for guns is not the answer to Colombia's troubles or our own troubles with the serious use of drugs right here in our own country. 
   Being tough on drugs is important. But we also need to be smart about the tactics we employ. No one disagrees that Colombia faces a difficult challenge and we should respond to President Pastrana's call for help to combat illegal drug trafficking. I agree. President Pastrana has argued that U.S. support is necessary to ``strengthen democratic institutions, stop the flow of drugs, and bring peace to the country.'' I agree. 
   I would support the army's push into southern Colombia if I felt this proposal would make that happen. But, in fact, I think a military push would have the exact opposite effect by weakening democratic institutions and bringing more hardship to the Colombian people. There is not anything in the world we can do, by way of monitoring this, to make sure that this military--which has been so clearly linked to these right-wing death squads and terrorist organizations--will change its practice. 
   Amnesty International, the State Department report, ``Human Rights World Watch Report''--I could spend hours just reading from these reports on the atrocities committed by the military, or the atrocities committed by these death squads, these paramilitary organizations toward which the military basically has turned a blind eye. Now we are going to provide the money for this military, for a military campaign, with American advisers, in the southern part of Colombia? That is what is problematical about this. 
   At the same time, however, forces from within Colombia threaten democracy. Paramilitary groups operating with the acquiescence or open support of the military--the very military we are going to support--account for most of the political violence in Colombia today. I need to make that point. 
   Yes to interdiction, yes to going after drug trafficking--but understand that this is a country in civil war. This is a country with the largest internally displaced population, maybe in the world, certainly in the hemisphere. And this is a country where too many innocent civilians are murdered. This is a country where paramilitary groups, operating with the acquiescence or open support of the military, account for most of the political violence. 
   Yet Colombia's military leaders have not taken a firm stand or taken clear steps necessary to purge human rights abusers from their ranks. The evidence is clear. They have taken no steps to purge human rights abusers from their ranks. They have acquiesced to these human rights abuses. Sometimes they support these human rights abuses. And we are going to provide this money for this military with American advisers? 
   I support the addition to this bill that requires conditions on assistance based on human rights concerns. But just as the Committee on Appropriations noted in its committee report to this bill, I, too, ``have grave reservations.'' I quote from the Committee on Appropriations:  
   ..... grave reservations regarding the Administration's ability to effectively manage the use of these resources to achieve the expected results of reducing production and supply of cocaine while protecting human rights.  
   Human rights organizations have detailed abundant and compelling evidence of continuing ties between the Colombian Army and paramilitary groups responsible for gross human rights violations. In its annual report for 1999, Human Rights Watch reports:  
   [I]n 1999 paramilitary [groups] were considered responsible for 78 percent of the total number of human rights and international humanitarian law violations [in Colombia.]  
   Human Rights Watch collected this evidence with the help of the Colombian Commission of Jurists, a highly respected human rights watchdog within Colombia. It has also collected evidence linking half of Colombia's 18 brigade-level army units to paramilitary activity. 
   In other words, military support for paramilitaries remains national in scope and includes areas where units receiving or scheduled to receive U.S. military aid operate. This is quite unbelievable. I hope all Senators will consider this seriously when they vote on this amendment. 
   I was also given a book detailing the human rights situation in Colombia by the Twin Cities Chapter of the Colombia Support Network. This organization is working to establish a sister-city relationship with the war-torn town of San Pablo in southern Colombia. San Pablo is directly in the path of the suggested push into southern Colombia. This is just one of hundreds, if not thousands, of heartbreaking stories:  
   A young woman, with a confused and almost hopeless air about her, answered my questions and spoke into my taperecorder. She had been forced to join a military patrol and walk for 13 days through the mountains, guiding the soldiers and carrying their knapsacks. Although she witnessed numerous cases of torture and the destruction and burning of humble campesino dwellings, it was the brutal murder of Jesus Pastrana which affected her the most. I myself had  met this campesino leader on one of his visits to Bogota to attend meetings of ANUC (a national peasants organization with strong support during this period). According to the terrible details the young woman gave me, Chucho, as Jesus was affectionately called, died a slow and agonizing death on October 31, 1981. He was hung from a tree as psychopathic soldiers cut off his ears, his fingers, hands, then arms and testicles and finally shot him 21 times.  
   Other colleagues have come to the floor to speak, and I want to make sure they speak. 
   If this were an isolated example and if I did not have in hand the evidence from respected human rights organizations and the State Department reports of blatant violation of human rights now of these paramilitary organizations committing so many of these atrocities, most of the violence, with the military acquiescing and sometimes linked to it and supporting it, with no evidence the military is taking any steps to purge its ranks of human rights abusers, I might think better of this dramatic change in our package, 7 to 1 from military to police, for a campaign in southern Colombia with American advisers, putting us in the middle of the civil war aligned with this military. 
   I want to have aid for Colombia. I want President Pastrana to have our support, but this effort will not be successful. Moreover, I think, we are, on very treacherous ground, moving into this area. 
   I will summarize so that other colleagues may speak. 
   We could put this money into the demand side. I am simply saying we take $225 million, leaving $700 million, or thereabouts, and we put it into the substance abuse prevention and treatment block grant program which basically is a block grant to our States. Whether or not we are talking about the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy or whether or not we are talking about the data that is collected in our States, we are talking about a situation where 50 percent of adults or more and 80 percent of adolescents or more who need treatment are receiving no treatment because we do not have the funds for the treatment programs. 
   Our police chiefs tell us drug abuse is the most serious problem in their community. They also identify a shortage of treatment programs as a real limitation on their ability to deal 
   with it. 
   We know from study after study--and I will talk more about this when I have more time--that money put into treatment programs pays for itself over and over. I have dramatic statistics and data I will present, but the long and the short of it is, if we have this package and if there are questions to be raised about the militarization of this aid, putting the money into the military for the southern campaign, a military directly linked to human rights violations, with so many organizations in Colombia saying do not do this, it will lead to more violence; do not do this, America, you could be sucked into this conflict; at the same time, we could provide a significant package into building democratic institutions for economic aid, $700 million, and we could take a tiny portion of it and deal with the demand side for drugs in our own country, which is also critically important, and get the funding to the community level that would help us provide some treatment for people, that is a win-win situation. 
   I hope this amendment will receive strong support from my colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   I sent this amendment on behalf of myself and Senator BOXER. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, since there are a lot of Senators here on the other side, I will take 2 minutes to respond to the Senator from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased for it to be on my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to the Senator from Ohio, this effort to deal with the demand side and to get some substance abuse prevention and treatment moneys to our States and our communities, I have no doubt the Senator from Ohio is very committed to that. I look forward to working with him on this because, frankly, I think it is a scandal. We have so much evidence--Bill Moyers, the impressive journalist, has done such fine work on this--that we can treat this addiction, that we can make a huge difference. Senator MOYNIHAN has spoken with such eloquence about the whole history of our efforts to constantly try to militarize and go for interdiction and not deal with the demand side. It is a completely one-sided proposition. I look forward to enlisting the support of my colleague from Ohio on this question. I know he will be there. 
   I will wait to respond to other Senators. I know Senator DURBIN is going to speak and Senator BIDEN. As I listen to my colleagues, what I am hearing--and I think we should be explicit about this--is that this is not just a question of a kind of war on narcotics. Otherwise, we would be doing more on the demand side. This is a question of basically saying that we can't just focus on the police. We can't just provide help to the government for police action and building democratic institutions and economic development and every other kind of assistance possible. We have to directly provide the money for the military to basically conduct their anti-insurgency campaign in the southern part of Colombia with American advisers and support. I believe that means we are taking sides. If we are taking sides and we are now in the middle of this war, so be it. That is what I am hearing on the floor. I wanted to comment on that. 
   I retain the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is right, yes. I will just be a few minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague for his courtesy. I know Senator BIDEN wants to speak. 
   I ask unanimous consent that Senator BOXER be allowed to speak after Senator BIDEN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Illinois for his very gracious remarks. A lot of times there is unnecessary flattery on the floor that may not seem sincere. I appreciate what he said. 
   At the personal level, I thank him. 
   I was thinking about what my colleague from Illinois said. I want to raise a couple of quick questions as long as we are having this debate. 
   First of all, in terms of the explosion of the number of men and women incarcerated, I couldn't agree more. 
   This legislation, which is all about how to deal with the drug problem and is being billed as legislation that deals with trafficking of narcotics and trying to protect people in our own country, is very one sided. I am trying to take a portion of it and say let's deal with the demand side in our country. 
   Soon in this debate I will lay out all of the studies that have come out. It is a real scandal. 
   In the State of Illinois and my State of Minnesota, the big part of the problem is that people are not getting treatment. I am simply saying: Can't we take a portion of this legislation, which is all about trying to protect our citizens and trying to deal with this drug trafficking, and deal with the demand side? There is no real disagreement. I think most people in our country would say: Why don't we put money in the demand side and treating people right here? 
   My second point is that President Pastrana has made his own judgment about what he needs to do. I have tremendous respect for the President, but I think we also need to make our own judgment. In all due respect, again if we are talking about moving from police to military in a pretty dramatic way, and talking about putting ourselves right in the middle of this conflict, let's understand that we should be having a policy debate about our taking sides in this civil war. 
   I couldn't agree more about the left or the right. You have an unbelievable number of atrocities and murder being committed by both sides. There is no  question about it. The question is whether or not we have now decided we are going to be there with aid and our people supporting the military in this counterinsurgency effort. Are we going to take sides in this military conflict? 
   I hear my colleague from Delaware say yes. I always respect his directness. But I think that is really what the debate is about. I think probably all of us need to understand, since some who have come to the floor have said they are against this amendment, if they are for the war against drugs, this is not a debate about only a war on drugs, obviously from what colleagues have said. We have been down this road before. Now we are going to say we have decided that we have to support the southern Colombia military, and we are going to put the money into this military effort. If we are going to have Americans there supporting it, we are taking sides. OK. As long as that is clear. 
   Third, my colleague from Illinois said that the police and the military are in this together, and that they work together. I do not know. Again, I didn't have a chance to visit Colombia. But I do know, at least from sort of the one time I was in Latin America and in my own study, that I always saw in these countries a great difference between the police and the military. You see the police. They are low-level guys who do their job. The military are the ``Rambos.'' There is a difference in the groups. They are an entirely different group of people and entirely different people. 
   In all due respect, the evidence we have right now by one human rights organization after another after another after another, much less the State Department report, is that about 70 percent of the violence has been committed thus far by paramilitary groups to which the military quite often is linked. We haven't been able to vet that. All of a sudden, we are going to be able to vet it, monitor it. We are going to be able to control it. I think that is a dubious proposition. 
   I think by militarizing this aid package we make a big mistake. I think we could support this amendment which permits extensive assistance to Colombia while safeguarding U.S. interests and avoid entanglement in a decades-old civil conflict and partnership with an army that is implicated in human rights abuses. Moreover, I think we could take some of the resources and put them where they could do the most good, which would be providing drug treatment programs at home. 
   I yield the floor and reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield 15 minutes to the Senator from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a moment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. For my colleague from California, just so she knows, the particular program we are talking about, which is the block grant, the SAMHSA block grant program to our States and communities for treatment programs, is $1.6 billion. 
   My colleague's figure lumps everything and anything together. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am talking about direct treatment out in the community. When 80 percent of the adolescents in this country get no treatment whatsoever, and 60 percent of the adults get no treatment whatsoever, it is hard to come out on the floor and say we have already made this tremendous commitment, there is no reason to talk about some additional resources. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Does my colleague need more time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield my colleague an additional 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I know the Senator from Georgia is here. I just want to thank the Senator from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I remind my colleagues that the amendment I have introduced with Senator BOXER takes nothing away from interdiction. It does not take away from this package. We are focused on the support for the military in the southern part of Colombia. That is what this is about. This is an amendment that would transfer $225 million from aid to the Colombian military for the push into southern Colombia into domestic drug treatment programs. It is that simple. It is not about not providing assistance to Colombia. It is not about not focusing on interdiction. 
   A number of different questions have been raised. To respond to some of what has been said, I will respond to the comments of my friend from Delaware. 
   It is important to note that right now in our country, according to ONDCP--General McCaffrey and others have talked about this quite a bit--there are about 5 million people in need of treatment and only about 2 million receive it, private or public. That means about 3 million people, more than half of the people who need treatment, don't get any at all. Why aren't we dealing with the demand side? 
   We have a bill out here, almost a billion dollars, and the majority leader comes to the floor and says this is all about the war on drugs. I am saying, how about a little bit that focuses on the demand side in our country. Let us have some funding for drug treatment programs for people in the United States. Yes, we have some money in the budget, but it is vastly underfunded. 
   The 2000 budget for SAMHSA altogether is $1.6 billion. This is the block grant money that goes to drug treatment. The States, which are down in the trenches using a different methodology, report that close to 19 million people in our country are going without any treatment. The ONDCP estimates, moreover, that 80 percent of the adolescents in our country who are struggling with this problem are getting no treatment at all. For women who are struggling with substance abuse problems, 60 percent of them get no treatment at all. In some regions of the country, the waiting list for treatment is 6 months long or longer. The overall cost to our country for elicit drug use is about $110 billion a year, according to the ONDCP. Right now we are spending $1.6 billion on a block grant program that gets money down to the communities for treatment. 
   If anybody thinks this is just an inner-city problem, consider a COSA report entitled ``No Place to Hide,'' which showed that drug use, drinking  and smoking among young teens, is higher in rural America than our Nation's urban centers. According to this report, eighth graders, 13-year-old children in rural America, are 50 percent more likely to use cocaine than those in urban areas--I remember when I heard Joe Califano say this; I was stunned--and 104 percent more likely to use amphetamines, including methenamine. Drug treatment is needed to treat addiction and to end the demand for drugs. This is not just an urban problem. 
   We are talking about taking $225 million out of this almost-billion-dollar package for Colombia. We are saying, cannot any of this be put into treatment, if this is going to be called the war on drugs legislation, as the majority leader identified it. I think we have had a different debate on the floor. What I am saying as a Senator from Minnesota is, can't we take some portion of that and deal with the demand side? Can't we put some money into the war on drugs in our own country? If 80 percent of the adolescents aren't receiving any treatment and need some help, can't we get some help to them? 
   This amendment is supported by Legal Action Center, National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors, National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, Partnership for Recovery, and State Association of Addiction Services. 
   Again, I say to my colleagues, this amendment, when all is said and done, is basically saying to Senators that we can provide assistance to Colombia, and we should. 
   We should provide extensive assistance, including interdiction, but at the same time we ought to avoid entanglement in a decades-old civil conflict and we ought to avoid partnership with an army implicated in severe human rights abuses. Moreover, I am saying we can take at least a small portion of the resources and put it where it will do the most good, and that is in providing funding for drug treatment programs at home. 
   I just want to echo the words of my colleague from California. It is quite incredible to me that we can find the money for the war on drugs--close to a billion dollars--for Colombia, but we can't take $225 million and put it into community-based treatment programs in the war on drugs in our own country. 
   Moreover, we have in this legislation--and I think in particular this may interest the Chair--a shift via a 7-to-1 ratio from money for police to military. This is particularly worrisome because, right now, one human rights organization after another--and we have our own State Department report on violations of human rights abuses by paramilitary groups. It points out that we have a country where civilians make up 70 percent of the casualties in that horrible war, and paramilitary groups linked to the army commit over 75 percent of the abuses. 
   I say to my colleagues, again, President Pastrana has made the political decision that he wants to conduct a military campaign in the southern part of the state. All of a sudden, this debate has shifted because Senators have come out here and have said: Yes, Senator WELLSTONE, we are taking sides and we should take sides. If President Pastrana says he needs money from us to support his military in this counterinsurgency effort in the southern part of Colombia with U.S. supporters on the ground with them, and if we don't stop this in Colombia, then, God forbid, for the whole future of South or Central America--I have heard this before--at least let's have this debate out in the open. 
   I know this is a debate about a war on drugs, in which case I would say, yes, yes, yes. I would say, we have in this package support for the Colombian Government, but if we are going to have a war on drugs, do it in our country and deal with the demand side and put more into community treatment programs. I think we win that argument. I am sure the vast majority of people in Minnesota agree. If you are going to spend money on the war on drugs, put some money into our own country. We have a package out here that basically says, for the first time, we are going to be directly aligned with the military campaign in Colombia, in the southern part of Colombia. 
   I have some very real doubts that militarizing this conflict is going to somehow be a successful war against drugs. Moreover, as I have said earlier, I have some very real doubts, which are expressed by human rights organizations and religious organizations and a whole lot of people in our country and in Colombia, that we should be taking sides and we should be supporting a military which, as recently as this year, has been unwilling to change its practice and stands accused by all of the reputable human rights organizations of human rights violations. 
   Do we want to align ourselves with this military, with these paramilitary groups that have committed such terrorism against civilians and are responsible for most of the violence in that country? I have not a shred of sympathy or support for 
   the guerrillas, the left-wing, the right-wing, any of them. 
   The question is, If it is a war against drugs, don't we want to put some money into the war against drugs here? Other than that, do we want to take sides in this military conflict? That is what my colleagues have been talking about today, and they say we have to. They say that if we do, we will be able to--we have language in this legislation that will safeguard against human rights violations by the military, that we will be able to invest this money in the military operation in southern Colombia and make sure everything will be above board. Frankly, I think that is problematic at best. 
   I am not sure people in Colombia or in the United States have the faintest idea what we are about to do. We haven't been able to stop any of these human rights abuses over the years. But now, all of a sudden, we are going to be right in the middle of this and take sides, and we are going to be aligned with this military campaign in southern Colombia, and we say we are going to vet it and make sure there aren't any human rights violations. 
   Never mind that all the human rights organizations on the ground say that will not work and the religious community says it is a profound mistake; that all sorts of government organizations in Colombia with a tremendous amount of credibility say, don't do this; don't align yourselves with this military campaign in southern Colombia. We are being told, no problem; we can vet this now. 
   I also want to say to my colleagues I don't think we have taken these human rights abuses, either directly by the military or the military assigned with these paramilitary groups, very seriously. Again, that is a declaration from social and human rights nongovernment organizations in Colombia; there must be 45, 50 organizations, or more. We just disregard them. They are saying, yes, interdiction, give us the package. But they are saying don't align yourselves with this military, with such a horrendous, horrific record of violence, murder, violation of human rights--alignment with the worst of the atrocities that have been committed Colombia--just as we don't want to side with the left-wing guerrillas. 
   Why are we now taking sides? 
   Again, some of my colleagues come out here and say this amendment is basically taking away assistance to Colombia. It is not. Senator BOXER did a great job on that point. We can take a couple hundred million dollars and put it into the war on drugs in our own country. We deal with the demand side. It is so naive to believe that all of what we see in our inner cities and our rural areas and suburbs, all of the addiction, all of the substance abuse which destroys people's lives--it is so naive to believe that if we now put money into a military campaign in southern Colombia, this is the way to fight a successful war on drugs. We have been down this road forever and ever and ever and ever. When are we going to get serious about dealing with the demand for drugs in our own country and the treatment programs? I don't know. 
   My colleagues just sort of give the human rights question the back of the hand in this debate. I have here the annual Human Rights Watch Report World 2000--I will read it again--talking about the paramilitary killers and how stark they are in their savagery, and all the ways in which the military has turned a blind eye to it, and sometimes it is connected to these groups. And now we want to put several hundred million dollars into supporting this military directly in a campaign in southern Colombia with some of our people on the ground with them? 
   I have to be concerned about the path we are taking. I am not going to bore my colleagues with the statistics. 
   Let me ask the Chair how much time I have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-26-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment is a sensible approach which permits extensive assistance to Colombia while safeguarding U.S. interests and avoiding entanglement in a decades-old civil conflict and partnership with an army implicated in serious human rights abuses. Moreover, it moves resources to where they will do the most good; that is, providing funding for drug treatment programs at home. 
   In my State of Minnesota, according to the Department of Human Services, there are 21,277 people who have requested treatment for substance abuse and have not been able to receive it. An additional 4,000 received some treatment but then were denied further treatment because resources weren't available. Most cited lack of funds to pay for the treatment, or they were put on a long waiting list when they needed the treatment the most. Others said treatment services were not appropriate for their needs--women with children, people with transportation problems, people who were trying to find jobs and needed treatment. This amendment calls for some balance. 
   When we started this debate several hours ago, the majority leader came out on the floor and in a very heartfelt way said this is about the war on drugs; this is about what is going on in Colombia and the ways in which that country is exporting their drugs to this country; they are killing our children. 
   If it is about the war on drugs, then let's make it balanced. Let's support efforts to have a war on drugs in Colombia. But let's also support the war on drugs in our own country. Some of this money ought to be put in treatment programs. 
   It is absolutely naive to believe we are going to be able to deal with the substance abuse problem in our country without dealing with the demand side. It is shameful that we have so little for the prevention and the treatment programs. This amendment takes just a little over $200 million and puts it into community-based treatment programs. 
   I doubt whether there is a Senator, Democrat or Republican, who either does not know a friend or even a family member who struggles with alcoholism or drug abuse. We ought to be doing a much better job of getting the treatment to people. This war on drugs is focused on interdiction. It is focused on a military solution in Colombia. I argue that it is one-sided. I would argue it is naive. 
   Second, I have today read from about five different human rights organizations' studies, human rights organizations that I believe command tremendous respect, I hope, from all of us. I read excerpts from the State Department report of this past year. I read a letter signed by 70 nongovernment organization, human rights organizations, and people who were down in the trenches in Colombia. They all said it would be a tragic mistake for our Government to now move away from supporting police, supporting interdiction, supporting a lot of efforts in Colombia, and shift a considerable amount of money to a direct military campaign in southern Colombia--a military aligned with paramilitary groups and organizations that have committed most of the violence in the country, a military with a deplorable human rights record. It would be a tragic mistake 
   for us now to become directly involved in this civil war. It would be a tragic mistake for our Government to support this military with Americans on the ground with them in southern Colombia. What are we getting into? 
   I conclude this way: I do not agree with some of my colleagues who have said that if we don't do this, it is the end for Colombia, and watch out for all of South America and Central America. I have heard that kind of argument before. It is eerie to me. It has an eerie sound to me. 
   I do not agree that we should take sides in this military conflict. Instead, I think we should be providing all of the support we can to President Pastrana in his good-faith effort to deal with drugs in this country, to build democratic institutions, and to have economic development. I do not believe we should turn a blind eye away from the blatant human rights violations of the military. I think it is extremely one-sided to ``fight a war on drugs'' which won't work, which will militarize our foreign assistance to Colombia, which will have our country directly involved in this military conflict, away from at least providing a small amount of money for community-based treatment programs. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have a copy of Senator LEAHY's statement. I am going to read a little from Senator LEAHY's statement. This is just a portion of his statement:  
   I have repeatedly expressed concerns about the administration's proposal, particularly the dramatic increase in military assistance. I am troubled about what we may be getting into. The administration has yet to give me sufficient details about what it expects to achieve, in what period of time, what the long-term costs are, or what the risks are.  
   That is, of course, part of the position that a number of us have taken today. I thank Senator LEAHY, who has a tremendous amount of expertise in this area, for his statement. He goes on to say:  
   I commend Senator WELLSTONE for his amendment. It would provide $225 million for substance abuse prevention and treatment programs in the United States. 
   According to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, drug abuse kills 52,000 Americans each year. It costs our society nearly $110 billion annually. It has strained the capacity of our criminal justice system and our medical facilities, and brought violence and tragedy to families, schools, and communities throughout this country.  
   I could not have said it better. Mr. President, 80 percent of adolescents who need treatment--those who will, if not provided treatment, sustain the demands for drugs in the future--today in our country cannot get it. Some 50 percent of adults in our country who are in need of a drug treatment program are not receiving it. Many treatment programs have lines out the door. 
   And the conclusion of Senator LEAHY's statement:  
   We should help Colombia. I support President Pastrana's efforts to combat the violence, corruption, and poverty which plagues his country. But I am not convinced the administration's request for ``Plan Colombia'' will effectively address those problems, nor is it likely to reduce the flow of drugs into our country or ameliorate the drug problem here at home. 
   We do know, however, that substance abuse treatment and prevention programs work. A frequently cited Rand study showed that, dollar for dollar, providing treatment for cocaine users is 10 times more effective than drug interdiction efforts, and 23 times more effective than eradicating coca at its source. Scientific advances promise to make treatment and prevention programs even better. Ultimately, reducing the demand for drugs--which is what these programs do--is the only long-term solution to reducing the flow of illegal drugs from Colombia and elsewhere. 
   Mr. President, I commend Senator Wellstone--  
   Nice of him to say--  
   for his leadership on this issue and I urge other Senators to support his amendment.  
   I urge other Senators to support this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object. What did the Senator ask for? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object. What is the Senator asking for? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I don't know whether we have reached agreement or not or whether there will be time for discussion tomorrow. 
   I thank my colleagues. I believe amendment No. 3568 has been accepted. This is an amendment I have offered with Senator BROWNBACK, who is in the chair. I point out to colleagues that this amendment would use $250,000 of the funds appropriated to Kosovo to help police better identify and respond to cases of trafficking. It also would provide some help for those who live in the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union who have been victims of trafficking. I thank both the Senator from Kentucky and the Senator from Vermont for accepting this amendment. 
   I especially thank Senator BROWNBACK for the work I have been able to do with him dealing with the awful aspect of this new global economy: the trafficking of women forced into prostitution, and terrible labor conditions. We have a great piece of legislation. Both of us hope it will pass soon. This amendment to this piece of legislation is a good step in the right direction. I thank my colleague, Senator BROWNBACK, for his support. I thank Senators for supporting this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to once again draw attention to the continuing war in Chechnya and to urge the Administration to include Chechnya high on the agenda at next months G-7 summit. 
   Colleagues, last Wednesday I met with Mr. II-yas AK-ma-dov who was here to present a peace proposal on behalf of the Chechen people. This peace proposal calls for the immediate introduction of a formal cease-fire, the formation of an international commission to investigate allegations of war crimes on both sides of the conflict, and the start of political negotiations through the mediation of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Mr. Ak-ma-dov relayed to me his serious concern at the desperation of the people in Chechnya, and noted that many of the recent suicide attacks we have heard about are a direct result of that desperation. 
   Mr. President, colleagues, we must seize every opportunity, including the upcoming G-7 summit, to continue to relay our serious concerns with the intransigence of the Russian Federation to acknowledge the concerns of the international community. The G-7 summit, which became the G-8 with the inclusion of the Russian Federation, is an association of democratic societies with advanced economies. Although Russia is not yet a liberal democracy or an advanced economy, it was invited to take part in this summit in encourage its democratic evolution. Today as I watch Russia continue to deny international human rights monitors access to Chechnya in defiance of the international community, I must question that evoluation. 
   In February this body passed Rsolution 262 which called on President Putin to allow international monitors immediate, full, and unimpeded access into and around Chechnya to report on the situation there and to investigate alleged atrocities and war crimes. In March, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly suspended the voting rights 
   of Russia due to the large number of reports of human rights violations in Chechnya. And Mr. President, at the 56th Session of the U.N. Commission on Human Rights last April, the Commission harshly criticized the Russian military's behavior in Chechnya. The Commission approved a Resolution calling on the Russian government to establish a commission of inquiry into human rights abuses in Chechnya and mandating visits to Chechnya by U.N. special envoys on torture, political killings, and violence against women. Yet, despite all this condemnation, Russia continues to ignore our requests. 
   The war in Chechnya from 1994-1996 left over 80,000 civilians dead. The number of deaths of innocent civilians rises daily as the current war continues. This is due not only to fighting, but to the inability of international organizations to easily distribute much needed humanitarian aid. A recent report from the U.N. High Commission on Refugees noted that elderly and sick people in the capital Grozny have difficulty reaching soup kitchens which are scattered throughout the city due to continued fighting. Russia has closed investigations into alleged human rights abuses by Russian soldiers citing a lack of evidence, and none of the U.N. mandated special envoys to Chechnya have been given access to the area. Just three weeks ago customs officials in Moscow confiscated an Amnesty International report on human rights violations in Chechnya. 
   Mr. President, this body and the international community has consistently spoken out demanding the Russian government allow into Chechnya international human rights monitors. It is important that we not turn silent now. 
   In her address to the U.N. Human Rights Commission in March, Secretary Albright said that no nation should feel threatened by the Commission's work since its task is to support the right of people everywhere to control their own destinies, and that the Commission asks only that its members play by global rules. Mr. President, colleagues, the United States must seize the opportunity of next month's G-7 summit in Japan to once again demand that Russia play by these rules. Our leadership within the G-7 and in the international community deserves no less. The people of Chechnya deserve no less. 
   Mr. President, I had a chance to meet with the Foreign Minister from Chechnya last week. I promised him that, as a Senator, I would speak out on the floor about what is happening in Chechnya. Just to summarize, the Foreign Minister came here with a proposal. It is a proposal that really calls for a cease-fire, calls for a political settlement, calls for international observers to be there. 
   What I want to say on the floor of the Senate is that this is a brutal war. Many innocent people have been killed. Certainly, some of the Chechans are responsible for the murder of Russians; but, overall, what we have seen is a tremendous loss of life, the decimation of a country. I have sent letters to Putin. I have spoken out about this. I think it is a human rights question. I call upon our Government, in particular, to be much more actively involved in trying to bring about some resolution to this conflict. 
   There are entirely too many innocent people paying the price. Entirely too many innocent people are losing their lives. I think it is a role for our Government to push for some kind of a peaceful settlement. I know we need to negotiate with Putin and be in contact with the Russian Government and work with them. I am all for that. I am not at all interested in rekindling a cold war. My father is a Jewish immigrant who fled Russia. But I also believe we should not turn our gaze away from what is happening in Chechnya. 
   We ought to make it crystal clear to the Russian Government that the wholesale violation of human rights and torture and murder of innocent people is simply not acceptable. The sooner there is some kind of a political settlement, the better off the people in Chechnya and Russia and the world  will be. I don't believe there is any evidence at all that this military campaign is going to work. Violence begets violence. Violence is met with violence. 
   I think our Government can play a more positive role than we have played. For the Senate today, I call on the Secretary of State and President Clinton to be much more actively involved in trying to bring about a resolution to this conflict. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Jill Hickson, a congressional fellow, and Tanja Rinkes and Daniel May, who are interns, have the privilege of the floor today during the consideration of the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I say to my colleague, I will be very brief on this amendment. I will try to take less than 10 minutes because Senator SMITH has taken a major leadership role. I know Senator HATCH will be speaking, and I am sure my colleague from Oregon will want to be here for that debate. The only reason I am taking this time right now is I won't be able to stay beyond the next 10 or 15 minutes. I will be brief. Then the country will have a chance to hear from the Senator from Oregon. I have not read the piece, but I thank the Senator very much for his leadership. 
   I am not a lawyer, but I want to try to briefly summarize what this bill is about. Senator LEVIN always does a more masterful job of that than I can. Then I will talk about why I think this piece of legislation is so important for Minnesota and people in the country. 
   When it comes to hate crimes based on race, religion, or national origin, this legislation essentially moves beyond the very restrictive language we have right now where we can't prosecute people who have committed violent crimes against someone unless that person was involved in some kind of federally protected activity. That is way too narrow a definition. We want to be in a position as a nation where the Federal Government can prosecute, for example, those who murdered James Byrd. It is that simple. 
   We don't want to have such narrowly restrictive laws and language--and this is where the amendment of the Senator from Utah doesn't do us any good at all--we don't want to have such a narrow definition that we can't prosecute people when they murder a James Byrd. I think it is that simple. 
   Secondly, we further define the hate crime legislation applied to gender, disability, and sexual orientation when there is an interstate commerce nexus. And in this particular case what we want to make sure of is that as a national community, as the Senate, as the House of Representatives, we care deeply when a Matthew Shepard is murdered, and, indeed, the Federal Government can play a role, and those who commit such a murder because of someone's sexual orientation will be prosecuted, that they will pay the price. 
   I know there have been some arguments made against this legislation. I am sure my colleague from Oregon will take up those arguments and deal with them in more depth, but as to the argument that somehow this takes on freedom of speech, we are not talking about freedom of speech. We are not talking about somebody in the pulpit saying whatever they want to say about people because of their sexual orientation, as much as I would be in disagreement with what I think would be prejudice or, I would argue, ignorance. But we are talking about an action; we are talking about when there is an act of violence perpetrated against someone because of their sexual orientation. I am not talking about speech. I am talking about violent action. 
   I believe strongly in this amendment and am proud to support it because I think hate crimes are very special. I came to the human rights rally in Washington, DC--it seems as though it was yesterday; maybe it was a couple months ago--I wanted to speak, and I had an opportunity to introduce Judy and Dennis Shepard. That was, for me, a much greater honor than actually giving a long speech or speaking at all. I wanted to introduce them. I have seen them at so many gatherings where they have been willing, as the parents of Matthew Shepard, who was murdered because of his sexual orientation, to go around the country and support other people and speak out and try to do everything they can in memory of their son, to make sure that this never happens again. I guess we cannot make sure it never happens again, but we can do everything possible to make sure that it never happens again. 
   That is what this hate crimes amendment is all about--basically, what happens when there is an act of violence against someone because of the color of their skin or their religion. I am sensitive to this. My father was a Jewish immigrant born in the Ukraine, lived in Russia, fled persecution, and came to the United States of America because of religious persecution. When you have this kind of violence against someone because of their religion or their national origin or their gender or their disability or their race or their sexual orientation, it is terrorism because what you are saying to a whole lot of other people is it could happen to you, too. That is the purpose of a lot of these crimes. You are saying to other people who are gay and lesbian, you are saying to other people because of their religion, sometimes you are saying to other people because they are white--not that long ago I think it was in Pittsburgh we saw people murdered just because of the color of their skin; they were white--what you are saying with these kinds of hate crimes is: other people, you could be next. 
   What you are doing is you are creating a whole second class of citizens who have to live their lives in terror. What you are doing is dehumanizing people. That is what these hate crimes are about. 
   Now, we should have a high threshold--I am not a lawyer, but we should have a high threshold. We want to make sure that truly these are hate crimes. And believe me, that will have to be proven in our court system. But, colleagues, in all due respect, you have an amendment here that does a good job of getting beyond the very narrow definition so that, indeed, we have a definition of a hate crime that applies to the murder of a James Byrd; we have a definition of a hate crime that applies to the murder of a Matthew Shepard, and I don't know how Senators can vote against it. It is long past time that we passed such a law. We must and I hope we will. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send a modified amendment to the desk, and I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to modify amendment 3366. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this Defense appropriations bill before us is a $3 billion increase over the administration's request. It is almost $20 billion more than we appropriated last year. Although for the past 2 years we have been focused on the readiness crisis--I think an important focus--the largest increase this year is not for personnel or operations or maintenance but for the procurement of weapons. This bill increases the amount of money for procurement of weapons almost 11 percent over last year. Let me just remind my colleagues that at the end of the cold war, a somewhat different era, this appropriations altogether is 2.5 times the military budgets of Russia and China and the six countries deemed to be the greatest threats to our Nation. 
   At a time when others recognize that the potential military threats to national security have declined dramatically, we have not. At a time when others want to put more emphasis on not just military readiness, which we must have, but other diplomatic solutions, multilateral efforts, we have not. 
   What I am doing in this amendment altogether is calling for a transfer across the board from this additional money for procurement, the 11-percent increase--a budget, again, that is $3 billion above what the President himself requested. I am saying we ought to take about $922 million, not quite $1 billion --I am trying to keep this amendment consistent with budgetary rules--and transfer that to education for kids. It is not a lot of money, but it would make a huge difference. Part of what I am talking about is basically a transfer of a little less than $1 billion from the Pentagon to the Department of Education, specifically focused on the title I program. 
   By transferring to title I this $1 billion, which ends up to be about $922 million after taking into account the costs of this reduction, this amendment is one step toward restoring some Federal funding for education that I think is very consistent with the definition of national security. 
   I define national security as, for sure, military readiness. But I also define national security as the security of our local communities. That includes making sure we do the very best by our children. That includes making sure that we as a nation do everything we can to live up to our national vow of equal opportunity for every child. 
   This amendment is all about our priorities. I look at the budget and I see a mismatch between some of our national ideals and goals in the speeches we give of what we say we care about and our actual spending priorities. The Senate committee reported out an education bill that would increase overall appropriations for education by $4.65 billion from fiscal year 2000 to fiscal year 2001. At the same time, the Department of Defense appropriations bill increased spending by $20 billion-- Education, $4.65 billion; Department of Defense, $20 billion. 
   We lead the world in our spending on defense, which is fine, but at the same time, we rank tenth in the world when it comes to education spending. Over the past 20 years, the Department of Education share of the Federal budget has shrunk from 2.5 to 2 percent. During the same time, the Federal share of education dollars has shrunk from 12 cents to 7 cents on the dollar. This is not the direction in which we need to be moving. 
   People we represent in our States are focused on education. They think we ought to be doing better. I understand full well, 
   I say to my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, much of K-12 is State government spending. But we can be and should be a real player in certain decisive areas. We should be putting much more into early childhood development so children come to kindergarten ready to learn. We should be doing much better by way of funding the IDEA program. There is probably not a school board or school district in the country that does not believe this is an unfunded mandate, where they are called upon to meet children's special needs or called upon to support children with special needs but they do not get the Federal funding to which they are entitled. 
   The other critical program is the title I program. Actually, there is not a more important program than title I. We had an amendment to double the authorization for title I, part A, to $15 billion. Senator HARKIN was one of the leaders on that. It passed the HELP committee with the support of every Democrat and every Republican Senator, but I think we were only able to raise the appropriation by several million dollars, as I remember it, I say to my colleague Senator HARKIN. 
   I want to transfer $1 billion to the title I program, and I want to talk about why. But first of all, when it comes to our priorities, when it comes to our commitment to education as opposed to just a commitment on the Pentagon budget, let me remind my colleagues, in a recent bipartisan poll: 60 percent of the American people say we spend too little on education; 40 percent of the people in our country say education should be the top funding priority in this year's budget; 75 percent of the American people say they would be willing to pay higher taxes to improve education; and 83 percent of Americans say we should equalize funding across districts, even if it means we should transfer funds from wealthy to poor districts. 
   It is absolutely amazing, the support that is out there. The title I program is a key investment, and we ought to be doing much better. Title I provides assistance to students who face the greatest educational barriers. They are the students whose parents have not had the educational opportunities or the luck in their life that many of us have had. Many of their parents are illiterate. Many of the parents of the students are poor. These are the students struggling to meet academic challenges. These are the children, the most vulnerable children, who need and deserve the support. Title I is used to fund the types of programs for these kids, for just such youth. We know they work. 
   As an example, 100 percent of major city schools use title I funds to provide professional development and new technology for students. We have been saying on the floor of the Senate and back in our States that the most important thing we can do to improve education is to have good teachers. That also includes good teachers for these children who are in the title I program. 
   We have been talking about the digital divide. We have been saying it is not right that in this country, those school districts, those wealthy communities, can be wired; they have access to the best technology. Those students will be equipped and they will be ready to do well. Students who come from poor districts and come from lower-income families, in those lower-income districts with less property wealth, they do not have access to this kind of technology. Title I money is used for that. Mr. President, 97 percent of the major city schools use title I money to support afterschool activities. 
   We have been through this debate. You can go to any 
   neighborhood. I do  not think, I say to Senator HARKIN, it is just in the cities. I think it also applies to the smaller towns and rural communities. You can talk to the religious community; You can talk to the law enforcement community; You can talk to parents; You can talk to teachers; You can talk to support staff; You can talk to youth workers; They will all say: We need to have some positive programs and activity and support for kids after school, especially when many of them go home and both parents are working. We need to do that. Ninety percent of these schools use title I funds to support family, literacy and summer school programs, and 68 percent use title I funds to support preschool programs. Title I has shown some strong success, despite its underfunding. 
   I point out to my colleagues that this amendment is a matter of priorities. 
   Again, there is an 11-percent increase in procurement, $3 billion more in this budget than the administration even asked. I am not talking about readiness programs. I am talking about a different world in which we live. When are we going to reorder some of our priorities and put just a little bit more of this investment in our children? When are we going to do better by children in our country? 
   Right now this title I program--which can be so important for educational development, can be so important in making sure these kids get the help they need, can be so important in making sure their parents become literate so they can help them read at home, can be so important for afterschool programs, can be so important in trying to make sure that when these kids come to kindergarten they are ready to learn--right now we fund the title I program at a 30-percent level. That is to say, over 70 percent of the kids who could benefit do not benefit because there is no money. In my State of Minnesota, in our cities, after you get to schools that do not have 65 percent of the kids who are low income but only have 60 percent of the kids who are low income, they do not get title I money whatsoever because we have run out of funds. 
   Yet consider this: The largest gains in test scores over the past 30 years have been made by poor and minority students. One-third to one-half the gap between affluent whites and their poor minority counterparts has closed during this time--again because of the special help from the title I program. 
   A study by the Rand Corporation linked these gains to title I and other investments in these programs that give these kids more assistance. The final report of the ``National Assessment of Title I'' by the U.S. Department of Education showed that the NEAP, National Assessment of Educational Progress, scores for 9-year-olds in the Nation's highest poverty schools have increased over the past 10 years by 9 points in reading and 8 points in math. The Council of Greater City Schools shows that 24 of the Nation's largest schools were able to decrease the number of fourth grade title I students achieving in the lowest quartile by 14 percent in reading and 10 percent in math in part due to the support of title I dollars. 
   In my State of Minnesota, for example, the Brainerd Public School District has a 70- to 80-percent success rate in accelerating students in the bottom 20 percent of their class to the average of their class following 1 year of title I-supported reading programs. 
   This is a successful program that directs resources to the poorest school districts in America. Forty-six percent of title I funds go to the poorest 15 percent of all schools in our country, according to a GAO report. Seventy-five percent of title I funds go to schools where the majority of children are poor, according to the U.S. Department of Education report. 
   The General Accounting Office estimates that title I has increased funding to schools serving poor children by 77 percent, and yet we fund this at about one-third of the level that is needed and it is unconscionable. 
   Yesterday I was in New York City. I went to a school, P.S. 30, in the Mott Haven community in the south Bronx, one of the poorest communities in the United States of America. I went there because I have such great respect for the work of Jon Kozol. Jon Kozol wrote a book called ``Amazing Grace: The Lives of Children and the Conscience of a Nation.'' Now he has written another book, ``Ordinary Resurrections.'' It is a book full of 
   hope. It is about three children and it is about this special school. The principal's name is Miss Rosa, Aida Rosa, who came from Puerto Rico 3 years ago. Her friends keep telling her to retire, but this woman will not give up on these children. 
   When one visits such a school, part of the trip is inspiring and part of it is indignation swelling inside, which is why I am here. 
   It is inspiring that Miss Rosa will not give up on these kids. I say to my colleagues, not one child in the classes I visited was white. Not one child I met comes from a family with an income over $10,000 a year. There are families in America--maybe some of our families--who spend that much on one vacation. These children come from families with incomes of less than $10,000 a year. They are Latino Latina. They are African American. They are poor. About 30 percent of these children suffer from asthma. One can see the pumps they carry because they have these asthma attacks. Thirty to 35 percent of these children suffer from asthma. It is no wonder. There is an incinerator a block away. The air is so polluted. This happens in a lot of poor communities. 
   Miss Rosa does not give up on these children, the teachers do not give up on these children, and Jonathan Kozol does not give up on these children. My point is it is inspiring, but these children could do much better if we would get the resources to the schools. 
   In my state of Minnesota, it is the same thing with Jackson Elementary School in St. Paul. I can think of elementary schools, junior high schools, and high schools I have visited. I visit a school every 2 weeks in my State. Over and over what these teachers say and what these principals say is: We are doing our best. Do not give up on any of these children. We know what works. We make sure when these children come to school they know they are loved. We hold them to high standards and expect them to do well. Never give up on them. Make sure that teachers are free to teach, and make sure we have an environment that emphasizes education and does not sell one child short. 
   We sell these children short. I do not understand our priorities. I do not understand why our commitment to education is such a small percentage of our Federal budget. 
   I do not understand how we can take a program such as the title I program--which is so important for low-income children and could make such a positive difference in their lives, would get more resources to some of these schools and some of these men and women who are teachers and principals and should be famous for the work they do--and fund it at a 30-percent or 35-percent level. I do not think it does any harm to who we are or what we are about as a nation to take less than $1 billion out of the procurement budget across the board and put it into the title I program. 
   We ourselves, as I said, in the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, voted to double the amount of money for title I. Yet we barely added any additional dollars to this critically important program. 
   The Nation's poorest schools are dramatically underfunded, they are dramatically understaffed, and they are dramatically under resourced. Title I helps get some of those resources to these communities. If title I was fully funded, Minnesota would receive about $160 million more to educate needy students and almost 240,000 more students could be served. I am on the 
   floor of the Senate to fight for these children in my State. Whatever the final vote is, if I can speak for a program that could make a difference in the lives of 240,000 more students in the State of Minnesota who are low-income kids, then I am going to do so, whether there is 1 vote for this amendment or whether there are 100 votes for this amendment. 
   I do not understand our priorities. Whatever happened to our national vow of equal opportunity for every child? How can we be talking today about how we are going to have tests and we are going to hold everybody accountable, but we do not make sure these children have the same opportunity to do well on these tests? 
   Why are we not investing in the achievement and the future of all the  children in our country? It is heartbreaking to visit these schools. It is inspiring but, at the same time, I come back to the Senate and say to myself: What can I do? When I visit these schools and meet these kids in any given class--yesterday I said to a lot of the teachers, to Miss Rosa, and others in the Mott Haven community in south Bronx, New York City: In the State of Minnesota--they did not believe it--in the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis, we have many of the same populations. 
   The majority of our students are not white, Caucasian. In any given class, kids come from homes where different languages are spoken. Four or five different languages are spoken in the homes from which these kids come. There are some 90 different languages and dialects that are spoken in children's homes in Minneapolis and 70 in St. Paul. These children are also disproportionately low income, and they need the additional support if they are going to make it. It would seem to me we ought to make sure of that. 
   I am heavily influenced by the work of Jonathan Kozol. I love Jonathan's work over the years. He said something in his book that I am going to say on the floor of the Senate in my own words because I do this all the time. I will come to the floor of the Senate, and I will say: Come on, less than $1 billion to the title I program, which is so underfunded in all of our States and, I say to my colleague from Montana, the rural communities. 
   I made a big mistake of not talking about greater Minnesota or rural America. We do not have the funding. Every teacher and every educational assistant and every principal and every parent who cares about education in these communities will tell you they do not have the funding and that we should do better. 
   But here is my point today. I could come out here on the floor and say: With this additional money for title I, if we make the investment in these children, who are, by definition, low-income children, then we will save money later on because fewer of them will drop out of school--and that is true--and we will save money because fewer of them will turn to alcohol and drugs--and that is true--and we 
   will save money because they will be more economically successful and more productive--and that is true--and we will save money by investing a little more money in the title I program because fewer of these children will wind up dropping out of school and ending up in prison--and that is true. But you want to know something. We ought to spend this additional money, $1 billion, or a little less than $1 billion, in title I for another reason: Many of these children are little children; They are under 4 feet tall, and we should be nice to them. We should care about them. We should get some resources into these schools, even if it is not in our self-interest. We should do it because it is the right thing to do. That is why we should do this. 
   Forget all the arguments about investment and how it will help our economy. I came out here earlier and said: We should consider this in a national security framework. No. I scratch everything I said, though keeping it in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. We should transfer this small amount of money from this Pentagon budget to the title I program because we should care about these children. We should care about them. We should be nice to them. We should want them to do well. 
   Many of them come from neighborhoods with some pretty difficult circumstances in their lives. I say to my colleagues, you might have wanted to spend a little time in the Mott Haven community yesterday. It is incredible, some of the difficult conditions in which children not only survive but flourish. Why don't we just give them a little more assistance? 
   I really believe this is an important amendment. I want to again summarize for my colleagues a little bit of what I am trying to say. Again, please remember that it is one thing to talk about a readiness crisis. The big increase was in procurement. Less than a $1 billion cut in procurement is hardly anything when it comes to the Pentagon budget. This appropriations bill is $3 billion more than the administration's budget request. 
   This year, the education bill has an overall appropriation for education of $4.65 billion--an increase. At the same time, the Pentagon budget goes up $20 billion. 
   I say to all of my colleagues, I think this is an important amendment. All of us know of the title I program. All of us know the difference it can make in children's lives. All of us say we care about these children. This is an opportunity to basically match our vote with our rhetoric. This is, I will admit, a reordering-of-priorities amendment on a small scale because, after all, this is $3 billion the administration didn't want. This bill is close to $300 billion. Can't we take $1 billion of this and do a little bit better by way of title I? 
   I will not end my remarks because I want to wait to hear what my colleagues say. But I will kind of finish up this part of my statement with a point that I do not like to make but I believe strongly about. So I am going to do it. I will say, some of my colleagues that I see on the floor--Senator INOUYE and Senator BURNS--and Senator INOUYE I especially believe I know well and know what he cares about--I do not think this applies to either one of my colleagues, regardless of how they vote; it can't because I know what Senator INOUYE, in particular, is about. But, in general--so let me say this is not exactly just in relation to this amendment--I find that people in politics, in both parties, will relish having a 
   chance to have a photo taken of them reading with a child. We are all for the children, and we say they are 100 percent of our future, but we are a dollar short when it comes to making the investment in their lives. 
   In particular, the unfinished agenda is poor children in America. It is incredible, but we have some 14 million poor children in our country today with its booming economy. Many of them, disproportionately, are of color. Many of them are in our inner cities. Some are in our inner suburbs, and some are in our rural areas. Many of the parents of these children didn't have the money to put them into the best developmental child care. They didn't have the great prekindergarten teachers. Some children did. And their parents--a single parent or both parents--are both working long hours. They don't have the money. 
   They can't spend $10,000, $12,000, $14,000 a year for great child care. They come to kindergarten behind. They have not had some of the benefits that come from a family where your parents have more of an education and a much higher income. But you want to know something. I saw it yesterday in P.S. 30. I saw it yesterday in the Mott Haven community. I see it in Minnesota. Those children have the most beautiful eyes. They have the greatest determination. They are full of excitement and they are full of hope. They believe in the American dream, even though they never say it that way. By the time they are in high school, most of it is gone. I think we ought to be doing better. I think these children ought to figure into our priorities. 
   We all know the title I program is vastly underfunded. It is an embarrassment. Can't we at least put another $922 million in this next year? Can't we do a little bit better by these children? 
   Mr. President, for now, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senators BOXER and HARKIN be added as cosponsors of my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is a $290 billion budget altogether. This amendment takes $1 billion from procurement, not from readiness. This takes $1 billion. This overall budget is $3 billion more than the President requested. It puts the money into the title I program. 
   This is a matter of priorities. This is a program that helps poor children in America, never mind that it helps them do better in school, never mind that it helps them graduate, never mind that it helps them contribute to our economy, never mind that it leads to less high school dropout, never mind it leads to less children winding up incarcerated and in prison. 
   Vote for this because most of these children are under 4 feet tall and they are all beautiful and they deserve our support. 
   The title I program is funded right now at a 35-percent level. This is a matter of priorities. 
   People in the country believe we should do better by these children. We should do better by these children. It is $1 billion out of all the procurement--$57 billion--that goes to children in title I. 
   I hope Senators will vote for this. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I follow the Senator from New Hampshire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I was not recognized for 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Virginia, if my colleague wants the floor right now, I ask unanimous consent that after the Senator from Virginia, I follow him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am saying to my colleague, I am recognized. I intend to offer an amendment. I heard my colleague from Virginia seeking recognition, and if there are a few things he wants to say right now, I will yield for that. Otherwise, I will go forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I do not intend to take a long time. I intend to lay out a case for an amendment. I cannot give a time. I cannot do it in 5 minutes. There is no time limit, but I do not intend to be long. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I intend to be finished before that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Virginia two things. No. 1, there are two other Senators out here who want to speak briefly. I would be pleased for them to do so--but I do not want to yield the floor--after which I will have the floor. 
   I say to the Senator from Virginia, I do not think I will take a long time. I will help the manager and try to do it in---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to the Senator from Virginia---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to the Senator from Virginia, 10 minutes will not be sufficient. I will try to move forward expeditiously. All of us think our amendments are important. I did not come out here intending to speak for hours, but I need to take about 20 minutes to make my case. I do not want to be---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. We all come and wait, and we all seek recognition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will not because I do not know how long it will take. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will try to keep it in that timeframe. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield to the Senators from Delaware and Utah, without losing my right to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I wish to talk about what this amendment is about. Then I want to also make a couple of other comments. I will try to stay within a reasonable time limit. 
   There have not been very many vehicles out here on the floor --if I say that back in Minnesota, people look for cars or trucks, but what I am saying is that we have not had a lot of opportunity to bring amendments out here that we think are important as they affect the lives of people we represent. 
   This amendment has been passed by the Senate, but every time it gets passed by the Senate, it gets taken out in conference committee. This will be the third or fourth time. I think on the last vote there were over 80 Senators who voted for it. 
   The amendment calls for a policy evaluation, in which I think all of us should be interested. We should care enough to want to know about the welfare bill because this is going to be coming up for reauthorization. In every single State in the country we are going to reach a drop-dead date certain where people are basically going to be off welfare. What this amendment calls for, and I will describe it more carefully in a moment, is for Health and Human Services to basically call on the States to aggregate the data and to get the data to us as to where these mothers and children are now. 
   In other words, we keep hearing about how the rolls have been cut by 50 percent and that, therefore, represents success, but we do not know whether or not the poverty has been cut and we need to know where these mothers are. We need to know what kind of jobs they have and at what kind of wages. We need to know whether or not the families still have health care assistance. There have been some disturbing reports that have come out within the last several weeks that in too many States even though AFDC families--that is, aid to families with dependent children families--by law should be receiving the Medicaid coverage even when they are now working and off welfare, they are not getting that coverage. 
   We need to know why there has been such a dramatic decline in food stamp participation, which is the most important nutritional safety net program for children in the country. There has been somewhere around a 20-percent cut in participation, and there has been nowhere near that kind of reduction in poverty. We need to understand what is happening. 
   Most importantly, I would argue, although one can never minimize the importance of whether or not these mothers are able to obtain even living-wage jobs, it is the whole child care situation. I recommend to colleagues a study that has recently been concluded by Yale and Berkeley which is devastating to me as a Senator. Basically, it is a study of what has happened to welfare children during this period of reform. 
   There have been 1 million more children who have now been pushed into child care. But the problem is that the child care is woefully inadequate and the vast majority of these children are watching TV all day, without any real supervision, without any real education, and therefore, not surprisingly, colleagues, they are even further behind by kindergarten age. 
   What this amendment would do would be to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to report to the Congress on the extent and severity of child poverty. In particular, what we are interested in is what is happening with the TANF legislation. 
   Let me sort of summarize. 
   The amendment would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to submit to Congress by June 1, 2001, or prior to any reauthorization of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act--we ought to have this evaluation before we reauthorize--a report on the extent of child poverty in this country. 
   The report must include, A, whether the rate of child poverty has increased under welfare reform; B, whether children living in poverty have gotten poorer under welfare reform--that deals not with the extent of child poverty but the severity of child poverty--and C, how changes in the availability of cash and noncash benefits to poor families have affected child poverty under welfare reform. 
   In considering the extent and severity of child poverty, the Secretary must also use and report on alternative methods for defining child poverty that more accurately reflect poor families' access to in-kind benefits as their work-related expenses as well as multiple measures of child poverty such as the extreme child poverty rate. 
   Finally, if the report does find that the extent or severity of child poverty has increased in any way since enactment of the welfare reform legislation, the amendment requires the Secretary to submit with the report a legislative proposal addressing the factors that have led to the increase. 
   Let me be clear as to what this amendment is about, why I introduce it to this bill, and why I hope for a strong vote. 
   First of all, what is it about? It is about poor children. Why have I focused on poor children? Because I think that should be part of our agenda. What is my concern? There has been a tremendous amount of gloating and a lot of boasting about how successful this welfare bill has been. I have traveled in the country and spent quite a bit of time with low-income families and with men and women who don't get paid much money but try to work with these families. That is not the report I get at the grassroots level. 
   What reports have come out--I won't even go through all of the reports today--should give all of us pause. Basically, what we are hearing is that there has perhaps been some reduction in the overall poverty rate but an increase in the poverty of the poorest families; that is to say, families with half the poverty level income. 
   What I also found out from looking at some of the data, much less some of the travel, is that there are some real concerns; namely, in all too many cases when these mothers now leave and go from welfare to work, which is what this was supposed to be about, the jobs are barely above minimum wage. When they move from welfare to work, all too often they are cut off medical assistance. Families USA says there are 670,000 fewer people receiving Medicaid coverage and health care coverage because of the welfare bill. 
   When they move from welfare to work, they go from welfare poor to working poor, but they are not being told that they still have their right to participate in the Food Stamp Program for themselves and their children and, therefore, are not participating in that program. When they go from welfare to work, since they were single parents at home, the child care situation is deplorable. It is dangerous.  
   When people keep talking about how great this bill is, and we haven't even done the policy evaluation, and it is coming up for reauthorization, I argue that it is a security issue for poor families in the United States of America. 
   Again, what this legislation calls for is a study of child poverty, both to look at the extent of it and the severity of child poverty, to make sure we get the data, to make sure we have the policy evaluation before reauthorization. There should be support for this because we should be interested in policy 
   evaluation. 
   Again, pretty soon we are basically going to have almost everyone pushed off welfare. Before that happens, before a mother with a severely disabled child is pushed off welfare or before a mother who has been severely beaten and battered is pushed off welfare or before a mother who has struggled with substance abuse is pushed off welfare, and they may not be able to take these jobs--they may not find the kind of employment with which they can support their families--we had better know. 
   I have quoted Gunnar Myrdal, the famous Swedish sociologist who once said that ignorance is never random; sometimes we don't know what we want to know. 
   This is the fourth time I have brought this amendment to the floor. The first time, it was defeated by one vote, although it was a different formulation. The second time, it was accepted on a voice vote. That was my mistake. Then it was quickly taken out of conference. The third time, it passed by a huge vote on a bill that then went nowhere. This is the fourth time. The reason I keep coming back is, I am determined that we do this policy evaluation. 
   Let me give one other example of why I will send this amendment to the desk in a moment. 
   In focusing on this welfare bill, I know there was a conference committee I attended. This was all about an amendment which, again, the Senate passed, but it was taken out in conference committee, where I was arguing that right now it is wrong not to enable a mother to at least have 2 years of college; that she and the State in which she lives should not be penalized on work participation, and that if the State of Minnesota or California or Michigan or Virginia decided it makes sense to let these mothers have 2 years of higher education, that they and their children will be better off; they should not be penalized. 
   I went to the conference committee; it was dropped in conference committee. A number of different members of the conference committee were saying: Wait a minute, this welfare bill is hallmark legislation. It is one of the greatest pieces of legislation passed in the last half a century. President Clinton tends to make the same kind of claim. 
   We can agree; we can disagree. The point is, there ought to be a policy evaluation. There is a lot at stake. What is at stake is literally the health and well-being of poor women and poor children. We ought to at least have this data. We ought to at least make this policy evaluation. We ought to do it before we reauthorize this bill. That is why I introduce this amendment, and that is why in a moment I will send this amendment to the floor. 
   Before I do, I also want to signal to colleagues that there is a report--I think we will have a debate; I don't know whether it will be today or whether it will be tomorrow or when --on missile defense. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am getting ready to send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I just received the amendment. I will be pleased to send the amendment to the desk. I will say, my colleague has a copy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The Senator does. I will also say to my colleague, I am actually trying to finish up in the next 4 or 5 minutes. It is just sort of a bad habit I have. When I keep getting pressed in the opposite direction, I tend to speak longer. I am not trying to take up time, I am just trying to argue my case, I say to the Senator. 
   Mr. President, I send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in many ways I would have liked to have taken an hour to talk about this because I happen to believe that what is happening right now with poor women and poor children is a terribly important issue. I have summarized this amendment. I think about 89 Senators voted for this amendment last time. I hope I will get a strong vote this time. 
   By way of concluding, while I have the floor, I will mention to colleagues, since I know we will have a thoughtful and careful debate on missile defense, there is an excellent study that has come out that I commend to every Senator, done by the Union of Concerned Scientists at the MIT Security Studies Program. The title of it is ``Countermeasures, a Technical Evaluation of the Operational Effectiveness of the Planned U.S. National Missile Defense System.'' 
   These distinguished scientists argue that any testing program must ensure that the baseline threat has realistically declined by having the Pentagon's work in that area reviewed by an independent panel of qualified experts; provide for objective assessment of the design and results of the testing program by an independent standing review; conduct tests against the most effective countermeasures. It is an excellent analysis of the whole problem of countermeasures--that an emerging missile state could reasonably expect to build and to conduct enough tests against countermeasures to determine the effectiveness of the system with high confidence. 
   We will have an amendment that I plan on doing with Senator DURBIN and other Senators, where we will have a very thoughtful debate about the whole question of the importance of having the testing. I just wanted to speak about this briefly. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will yield to the Senator from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Virginia and the Senator from Michigan for their support. We have had a resounding vote for this amendment before. I want to just keep this before the Senate. Somehow I want to get this policy evaluation done. So I think a voice vote, which means this passes with the full support of the Senate, will suffice. 
   I thank my colleagues for their courtesy and graciousness. I thank the Senator from Virginia for allowing an unlimited amount of time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Tennessee, I am glad to hear him talk about increasing the number of people who are uninsured. With all due respect, I don't hear a lot from Senators on the other side about the need to have health security for all Americans. That, truly, is the unfinished agenda. 
   Secondly, on the playing politics of it, I don't want to turn around and say he is playing politics with it, but people in the country are wondering how long they are supposed to wait. 
   This is all about quality health care. All of our citizens want to be covered, not just the small number in the Republican bill. All of the citizens in our country want to make sure that the doctors are making the decision and there is independent review of their decisions. That is not in the Republican bill. All of the people in our country want to make sure that when they need to purchase prescription drugs or they need to see a specialist, a doctor who can give them and their children the best quality care possible, they will be able to do so. That is not in the Republican bill. 
   We have been waiting and waiting--3 months, 4 months, I don't know how many months--for the conference committee to act. With all due respect, people in Minnesota and people in the country want to bring some balance back into this health care system. They don't want it run by the big insurance companies. 
   They don't want it just run by the big managed care companies. They want us to be responsive to their concerns. This is a vote about who we represent. Do we represent these large insurance companies and large managed care companies, the vast majority owned by just a few large insurance companies, and increasingly corporatize, industrialize, and insensitive medicine or do we support a health care system that is responsive to the people we represent--the people back home, the mothers, fathers, and children who want good quality health care, who want to be able to go to the doctor that will help them, who want good quality treatment when they need it. 
   That is what this is all about--patient protection and protection for the caregivers, the providers, the doctors. Demoralized caregivers are not good caregivers. The reason the AMA and other professionals support this is they want to be able to practice the kind of medicine they thought they would be able to practice when they went to nursing school or medical school. 
   Really, this is a real simple proposition: Are we on the side of the consumers and people back in our homes? Or do we represent just a few large insurance companies who only control most of these big managed care companies? I think we should be on the side of the consumers and families. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am trying to move things forward. Senator HELMS and I are working out language. I think we will have an agreement, but I thought I would start speaking on this amendment so we can move this forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is a sense-of-the-Senate amendment that deals with the importance of condemning the use of child soldiers in dozens of countries around the world. It is also about very important protocol that is being developed and the importance of building support for it and moving forward as expeditiously as possible on this question. 
   Today, there are 300,000 children who are currently serving as soldiers in current armed conflicts. Child soldiers are being used in 30 countries around the world, including Colombia, Lebanon, and Sierra Leone. Child soldiers witness and are often forced to participate in horrible atrocities. 
   I am talking about 10-year-olds being abducted, forced to participate in horrible atrocities, including beheadings, amputations, rape, and the burning of people alive. These young combatants are forced to participate in all kinds of contemporary warfare. They wield AK-47s and M 16s on the front lines. They serve as human mine detectors. They participate in suicide missions. They carry supplies and act as spies, messengers, or lookouts. 
   One 14-year-old girl abducted in January 1999 by the Revolutionary United Front, a rebel group in Sierra Leone, reported to human rights observers:  
   I've seen people get their hands cut off, a ten-year-old girl raped and then die, and so many men and women burned alive *.*.* So many times I just cried inside my heart because I didn't dare cry out loud.  
   Mr. President, no child should experience such trauma. No child should experience such pain. 
   Last year, I introduced a resolution expressing the sense 
   of the Congress  that U.S. policy permit consensus on language on this optional protocol on child soldiers, directing the State Department to work positively to address its concerns, in language within the United Nations Working Group on Child Soldiers. Today I thank the State Department for its work, and I thank the Department of Defense for its conscientious work, and I thank the Joint Chiefs of Staff for signing off on this protocol. I think it is terribly important work. 
   On January 21 in Geneva, representatives from more than 80 countries, including the United States, worked out an agreement raising the minimum wage for conscription in direct participation in armed conflict to 18 and prohibiting the recruitment and use in armed conflict of persons under the age of 18 by nongovernmental armed forces. The agreement calls on governments to raise the minimum wage for voluntary recruitment above the current standard of 15 but still allows the armed forces to accept voluntary recruits from the age of 16, subject to certain safeguards. 
   The Pentagon, and again the State Department, Harold Cohen in particular, have been great to work with. I believe this is a humanitarian crisis that we ought to address now. It is absolutely unbelievable that in the year 2000 we see people as young as age 10 abducted--I have talked to some of the mothers of these children who are abducted--and forced to commit atrocities. It is unbelievable that we see children age 10 cutting off the arms of other people, engaging in murder. It is unbelievable the extent to which young women are abducted, and they themselves are terrorized and raped. This is a practice that takes place in 30 countries around the world involving 300,000 children. 
   Finally, after years of work, the United Nations has put together an important protocol. We are, I believe, close to supporting this. 
   In conclusion, this is just a sense-of-the-Senate resolution that the Congress joins in condemning the use of children as soldiers by governmental and nongovernmental armed forces. We talk about the importance of taking this action. We make it clear that it is essential that the President consult closely with the Senate in the objective of building support for the protocol, and we also urge the Senate to move forward as expeditiously as possible. 
   I think it is important that all of us support this. I urge my colleagues to do so. I want colleagues to know that Congressman LEWIS and Congressman LANTOS on the House side have a very similar resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in the time I have remaining let me say to my colleague from Illinois, I believe my colleague from Illinois, the Senator from California, the Senator from Wisconsin, and others have really brought to our attention the number of citizens, not just children, who are HIV infected, struggling with AIDS. It is a humanitarian crisis of tremendous proportions. 
   I think for too long the world has just turned its gaze away from this and from the whole question of how to get affordable drug treatment to deal with this, prescription drug treatment, to ways in which our country ought to be more engaged, to ways in which we can encourage governments in Africa to deal directly with this. Finally, we are doing so. My colleague is right, it is also true, for the worst of economic reasons or reasons of desperation, that these young people, including young people infected with AIDS, are the recruits. They become the child soldiers--again, colleagues, 300,000 children, many of them abducted, in 30 countries, used as child soldiers. 
   This resolution, I think, is terribly important. Our Department of Defense and State Department have worked hard. A year ago, our Government was not supporting this. I think we now have language that is important language. This simply urges the Senate to condemn this practice and talks about the importance of the President moving forward and building support for this protocol, and it calls upon the Senate to act expeditiously on this matter. 
   I hope there will be 100 votes for this. I thank my colleague Senator HELMS, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, for working with me. We have changed some language, and I think we have a good resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to colleagues, I will not require a recorded vote. If we want to go forward with a voice vote, that will be fine with me if it is fine with my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will just take about 2 minutes in support of the Mikulski amendment to say how proud I am to be an original cosponsor. I have probably given 15 or 20 speeches about this, so I do not want to take any time except to emphasize two points.  
   First of all, I thank the Senator for mentioning Officer Chestnut and Detective Gibson. It has really been almost 2 years ago that we lost those two fine officers. I do think the best way we honor them is by supporting the police. 
   I think what happened on the House side was really unconscionable because whereas we really need to do even better by way of making sure we get two police officers at each post, making sure we have the security for them, much less the security for the public and ourselves, instead, what we saw was actually a slashing of the budgets, which means hundreds of officers losing their jobs and not really having police officers working under the right conditions for themselves, their families, for the public, and for us. 
   We really have done well on the Senate side. I thank Senators BENNETT, FEINSTEIN, MIKULSKI, and others for their commitment. I hope every single Senator will support this amendment. Like other Senators, I am not always wild about sense-of-the-Senate amendments--I offer a fair number of them myself--but sometimes they are really important. Sometimes they are, while symbolic, really powerful and really important. 
   I do think we need to convey the message, in light of what happened on the House side, in light of how demoralized and how angry and indignant some police officers are, that we fully support them. 
   This amendment is a very important one. I hope it will have the full support of the Senate. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I note that Senator HARKIN was going to come out on the floor. I will try to be relatively brief. I did not want to precede him. Let me just take a few moments, and then I will reserve the remainder of my time for later on. I know my colleague from Idaho wants to speak as well. 
   Mr. President, I am speaking on my hour right now, though I will not take up all the time, and I will reserve the remainder of my time. 
   At the beginning, Mr. President, before I thank some of my colleagues for their work and then be honest in some of my criticism, I will very briefly, with the indulgence of my colleagues, just point out on the floor of the Senate that yesterday--all of us have to deal with this in our States--Sheila and I received some unexpected news that has devastating consequences for the people of part of Minnesota--an area I love, the Minnesota Iron Range. The steel company LTV announced it is going to close the taconite plant in Hoyt Lakes. They employ 1,400 people, I say to my colleague from Idaho. For Hoyt Lakes, Aurora, and other communities in the Iron Range, this is just devastating news. 
   It just makes me sick to my stomach because these workers are friends and their family members are part of our family. I have always been honest that the Iron Range in Minnesota is a second home for me. It is all so unexpected.  
   Jerry Fallos, who is the president of the steelworkers local, got a call yesterday at 6 a.m. in the morning. The company said: We want to meet with you. He had absolutely no inkling there was any trouble. LTV said: We are closing the Erie plant. 
   I know that the steelworkers are asking for an accounting of the closing. They are pledging to do whatever they can to keep it open. In whatever way I can help as a Senator, I certainly intend to do it. 
   By way of concluding these remarks and getting on to the conference report, I want to say this. 
   Tomorrow, I am going to leave early to go home and meet with county commissioners, workers, union representatives, company people, small businesspeople, and all the rest. I know we will be talking about how to get assistance to people and how to have more economic development and the need to figure out yet other ways to diversify the local economy. But the one thing I want to mention, because the Iron Range is so special, is that sometimes I do not think we focus enough on community. 
   I think this should bring Democrats and Republicans together --a place where people live, where people go to church or synagogue or mosque, or wherever people raise their families, where people know one another, people love one another, and people support one another. 
   I truly do believe sometimes these capital investment decisions in this new global economy, that get made over martinis, halfway across the world, can have devastating consequences for the people in our communities. I think we need to put more of a premium on community, especially on our smaller communities. I hate it when we are put in the position of picking up the pieces as a result of the communities being devastated by policies that are needless and should not be supported in the first place. 
   Again, we have seen a torrent of dumped steel imports 
   coming into our country that has made our industry vulnerable. We now have 1,400 people--much less their families and communities--who are very much at risk. 
   As a Senator, I am going to do everything I can to help these people. 
   In some ways this is like the farm crisis. 
   Mr. President, I ask my colleague from Idaho how long he intends to take? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I did not want to precede Senator HARKIN, who is the ranking member on this committee. I ask unanimous consent that Senator HARKIN be able to speak, after which Senator CRAIG would be recognized for 5 minutes, and then I be recognized to follow Senator CRAIG. Would that be all right? I would be pleased to do that. I ask unanimous consent that that be the order. I say to my friend from Iowa, I did not intend to precede him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, Senator ROBERTS is here. He worked so hard on the crop insurance bill, which is a fine piece of legislation. I ask unanimous consent that Senator ROBERTS be recognized for about 15 minutes, and afterwards I follow him, and then Senator HARKIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor today to speak of my profound disappointment regarding the way in which the Senate is conducting its business. I am outraged that these payments have been attached to a conference report without any consideration in the full Senate. 
   Mr. President, without any public debate and with no hearings in the Agriculture Committee some of our colleagues have attached $7.1 billion to this conference report, and have unilaterally decided to continue the failed farm policy of the 1996 farm bill. 
   First of all, I want to be very clear that I am pleased there was some recognition in Congress that the Freedom to Farm bill, or as I call it the Freedom to Fail bill, has not provided an adequate safety net to our nation's family farmers. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Budget Committee recognized that after spending over $16 billion the last 2 years on emergencies, family farmers were in need of an economic safety net. 
   But I believe this emergency assistance package only relieves the apparent symptoms of the economic crisis in agriculture. This assistance will help some farmers to continue their operations for the immediate future, but this direct cash infusion cannot sustain farmers for the long term. 
   I am deeply concerned about simply attaching this money to a conference report without any debate or possibility of amendments. And as a Senator from Minnesota, with thousands of family farmers in my state who are suffering economic convulsion, I am completely opposed to continuing this disastrous farm policy passed 4 years ago. 
   Mr. President, this is very much an extension of the debate we began last week--it's a debate about our right to be legislators. It is about being able to offer amendments to improve legislation--that is what the people of Minnesota elected me to do. The people of Minnesota and the thousands of Minnesota family farmers certainly didn't elect me to be silent, and accept the status quo in Washington, DC. 
   At times Senate procedure can seem a bit arcane to many people--let me explain what has happened with this legislation. We are now considering the crop insurance conference report--this is great. The legislation passed 95-5, and I voted for the bill. The crop insurance bill passed by the Senate will, in fact, make crop insurance much more affordable for thousands of family farmers who have experienced years of crop losses--like the Red River Valley in Minnesota. I will do everything in my power to pass this important piece of legislation--I have no objection there. 
   However, what has been done behind closed doors in a conference committee, with absolutely no public scrutiny, is completely different. What the conferees have done is to attach $7.1 billion in emergency farmer relief payments to the crop insurance bill. They have not asked the full Senate. They have not consulted with the House of Representatives. 
   And conference reports are privileged which means that Senators cannot offer any amendment. Nor can Senators engage in extended debate. In essence, we as Senators have been left with no options to alter the conference report in any way. 
   Mr. President, as a Senator from Minnesota this is one of the most egregious maneuvers I have witnessed in the Senate. And the one thing that greatly concerns me about this road we seem to be heading down is that back home in Minnesota I meet with people, and they really believe that I will make a difference in their lives--that I can in fact help them. 
   However if, as a Senator, I cannot at least offer amendments, to what is probably the most important agriculture bill, I am shut out. In fact all Senators are shut out. I don't claim to agree with everyone, and I welcome 
   having debates about what is the best way to spend $7 billion, but the Senate must have those debates. 
   And for Minnesota farmers time is not neutral. That was evident when nearly 4,000 family farmers from Minnesota, and all across the country, came to Washington, DC, to demand a change in the failed Freedom to Farm Act. People really believe when we meet with them that we can do something right now about the abysmally low prices, whether it is the livestock producers, or whether it is the corn growers, or dairy producers. With what is going on in farm country with crops, people are in such pain. They still come out to meetings because they still believe in us as their Senators, and by meeting with us and talking about what is happening to them, somehow since we are their Senators we can do something to help. 
   But I am left with very few options. The majority has insisted on attaching a vital piece of legislation to a conference report without any public debate, or amendments. And that is to say nothing about the substance of the legislation they are attempting to ram through the Senate.  
   However, I am glad that Minnesota will benefit from the emergency package. And, although I have significant reservations that AMTA is not the best mechanism to provide income assistance to producers, it will at least keep farmers going for another year. I preferred and pushed for a mechanism that targets and ties assistance to actual production. 
   Mr. President for the first time since 1996 the majority has recognized that the Freedom to Fail does not provide an adequate safety net for our family farmers. Through including $7.1 billion in the FY 2001 budget resolution for farm relief the Budget Committee has conceded that the Freedom to Farm Act has failed to provide an economic safety net for our nation's family farmers. 
   We were presented with a tremendous opportunity to reverse the disastrous farm policy enacted in 1996, by targeting this money to our nation's small and medium sized producers who are truly in an economic crisis. But rather than examining serious policy alternatives that could reverse the current economic crisis in rural America, we have been presented with legislation that continues the Freedom to Fail bill. 
   First of all, and I think this simply prudent public policy--and I say this is with greatest respect for the chairman of the Agriculture Committee--I do believe the Agriculture Committee had a responsibility to our nation's family farmers to hold hearings on mechanisms to target the financial assistance to those small and medium farmers most in need. I firmly believe it is a grave mistake not to base these payments both on prices and production. 
   Basically what the majority has done is to double these disastrous AMTA payments. And they have refused to deal with any of the problems of distribution equity. 
   As we have seen over the last 2 years, emergency assistance packages only relieve the apparent symptoms of the economic crisis in agriculture. Assistance will help some farmers to continue their operations for the immediate future, but direct cash infusion cannot sustain farmers for the long term. 
   There are a couple of problems with these AMTA payments. First of all, these payments are based on the old farm program's historic yields. Farmers such as traditional soybean farmers, who never had a program base in the old program, don't get any of these AMTA payments. That is one huge problem. 
   In addition, it is possible for some people who might not even have planted a crop to receive them because the Freedom to Farm--or what I call the ``Freedom to Fail''--payments are completely unconnected to production or price. Furthermore, I predict, largely this money will be used to pay back banks and lenders from whom farmers needed to borrow money 
   earlier this year just to get in their crops. 
   Let's be clear--it is now evident that the majority of AMTA payments have not been distributed to family farmers, rather they have gone to the largest farmers and corporate agribusiness. Recently a comprehensive study was conducted on the federal farm payments from 1996 through 1998 which shows that the 1996 Freedom to Farm bill (and subsequent legislation) has provided minimal financial assistance for the large majority of family farmers. 
   The study found that the largest farming operations were generously compensated by Freedom to Farm, and many of the top payment recipients were paid hundreds of thousands of dollars over the 3-year period studied. Large operators received these enormous payments, even as operators of smaller farms (with average annual sales of $50,000 or less) actually lost money. 
   According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, these smaller farms realized an average net loss of $3,400 in income from their farming operations in 1996 alone. 
   From 1996 through 1998 nearly 61 percent of all federal Freedom to Farm money approximately $13.8 billion in total went to the 144,000 individuals, corporations and farm partnerships among the top 10 percent of recipients. 
   A recipient among the top 10 percent was paid an average of $95,875 over the 3 years (`96-`98). These payments were on top of any profits earned from the sale of agricultural commodities, and do not include payments made under conservation, disaster or crop insurance programs. 
   In contrast to the largest farmers, the vast majority of AMTA recipients have seen very little benefit from Freedom to Farm. Half of all farmers received less than $3,600 in total from 1996 through 1998, or an average of about $1,200 per year. 
   Large corporate agribusiness already enjoy significant competitive advantages over smaller farming operations in availability of capital. According to USDA's Economic Research Service, farm operator households for farms with sales of $500,000 or more averaged $153,847 in farm income in 1996, while operators of farms with between $250,000 and $500,000 in sales averaged $53,265 in household farm income in the same year. And operators of farms with less than $50,000 in sales realized a net loss of income from their farm operations. 
   The central question we need to ask ourselves is that if the largest U.S. agribusiness are inherently more efficient, as corporate America assures us they are, why do these efficient farms need Federal Government assistance, and why do they collect the majority of the assistance that is provided? 
   Hundreds of thousands of small- and medium-sized operations receive meaningless amounts of AMTA assistance under Freedom to Farm programs. I believe, it is a great mistake not to target this money to producers based on actual production. 
   That is the key issue. That is the key difference. In dealing with this price crisis, we ought to make sure that the payments are connected to production and price. So what the Republicans have is the wrong mechanism for addressing the price crisis. We must target the assistance to family farmers and tie direct assistance to production. Thousands of family farmers across the country could go out of business due to conditions that are beyond their control. In Minnesota, up to 30 percent of our family farmers are threatened--that's thousands of farm families. 
   Whatever you do by way of dealing with low prices, you have to make sure that payments are connected to production and price. Too many of the transition payments go to landowners, and not necessarily producers. I don't think that makes a lot of sense. Some, like soybean growers, won't be helped at all. We can do better, we must do better. 
   We could at minimum target the assistance to those farmers who are in the 
    most need. We have an opportunity to make at the very least incremental changes to current farm policy. The policy objective of the ad-hoc aid is clouded by the apparent inability of Congress to pass aid packages targeting assistance to farmers most at risk. 
   Some of the largest and most profitable farms in the country will benefit from this assistance if it is distributed in double AMTA payments and meanwhile there are no funds devoted to other needs in rural America. 
   Mr. President I also want to talk about the whole problem of concentration of power. This is an unbelievable situation. What we have is a situation where our producers, such as our livestock and grain producers, when negotiating to sell, only have three or four processors. They have the ADM's, the Smithfield's, the ConAgra's, the IPB's, the Hormel's and the Cargill's. The point is, you have two, three, or four firms that control over 40 percent, over 50 percent, sometimes 70-80 percent of the market. 
   Let me just run through some statistics that illustrate this point. In the past decade and a half, the top four pork packers have increased their market share from 36 percent to 57 percent. 
   The top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 percent to 62 percent, while the market share of the top four soybean crushers has jumped from 54 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four sheep, poultry, wet corn, and dry corn processors now control 73 percent, 55 percent, 74 percent, and 57 percent of the market, respectively. By conventional measures, none of these markets is really competitive. 
   Thousands of our livestock and grain producers are facing extinction, and  the packers are in hog heaven. The mergers continue, and we have all of these acquisitions. We need to put free enterprise back into the food industry. 
   I have had a chance to review the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act and the work of Estes Kefauver and others. We had two major public hearings in Minnesota and in Iowa last year with Joel Klein, who leads the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department, and Mike Dunn, head of the Packers and Stockyards Administration within the Department of Agriculture. And earlier this year we had thousands of family farmers in Washington to rally at the Capitol. In all the meetings I have been at over the last two years, producers are asking the same question: Why, with these laws on the books, isn't there some protection for us? We have all sorts of examples of monopoly. We want to know where is the protection for producers. 
   It is critical to pass some stronger antitrust legislation. I know Senator LEAHY and Senator DASCHLE have done a great job with their legislation. I am pleased to join with them in cosponsoring the Fair Competition Act of 2000. 
   Mr. President, there is a frightening difference when the major agribusiness firms can raise billions on Wall Street while making record profits at the same time farmers and ranchers are faced with take-it-or-leave-it low prices. Even, the American Farm Bureau Federation, who I don't always agree with, testified on February 1, 2000, that ``consolidation, and the subsequent concentration within the U.S. agricultural sector is having adverse economic impacts on U.S. family farmers.'' The administration recently testified that:  
   High concentration, forward sales agreements, production contracts, and vertical integration have raised major concerns about competition and trade practices in livestock and procurement by meat packers and poultry processors. ..... The four leading packers' share of steer and heifer slaughter increased from 36 percent in 1980 to 81 percent in 1998.  
   This concentration of power in the hands of a few increases the likelihood that farmers or ranchers will be the victim of unfair or deceptive practices. The Fair Competition Act will give USDA the authority to help address those practices. Firms and corporations, no matter how large, which engage in unfair, deceptive, or unjustly discriminatory practices, or which give undue preferences, or make false statements regarding transactions, will be stopped by this bill. 
   The bill also focuses on mergers of agribusinesses and on agribusiness acquisitions. Over the last quarter century there have been a major increase in the horizontal, vertical and sectoral concentration of agribusinesses and in industries serving agriculture. At some breaking point, the concentration of agribusinesses in any region will mean that farmers or ranchers are adversely affected by an imbalance of negotiating power and a lack of viable market alternatives. The bill gives the Secretary the authority to identify circumstances where a proposed merger will result in unfair or deceptive practices that adversely affect farmers or ranchers and to take a strong action against such a merger. 
   In addition, under the bill the Secretary shall make findings about whether a proposed merger or acquisition could ``be detrimental to the present or future viability of family farms or ranches or rural communities in the areas affected by the merger or acquisition.'' 
   If the Secretary determines that such adverse effects are likely, the Secretary would propose remedies, such as divestiture of asserts or other corrective action, designed to protect family farms and ranches, and the affected local communities. Failure to comply with those remedies could result in significant civil money penalties. 
   This authority is similar to that conferred by Congress on the Surface Transportation Board which takes into account the ``public interest'' with respect to proposed mergers of railroads. That Board examines the potential effects on the public, on employees and on competition and ``the impact of any transaction on the quality of the human environment and the conservation of energy resources.'' (49 CFR 1180.1) To carry out its duties, ``the Board has broad authority to impose conditions on consolidations *.*.*'' 
   Similarly, the Federal Communications Commission exercises a major role over the telecommunications or broadcasting industry mergers when it examines whether transferring licenses to the merged entity is ``in the public interest.'' 
   This bill thus aims at preventing the detrimental effects of such increased concentration on farmers and ranchers, and rural communities, just as the Surface Transportation Board has imposed a moratorium on railroad mergers to ensure that railroad mergers are in the ``public interest.'' 
   We need to pass this legislation now, and I think there is going to be a considerable amount of support for this. The reason I think there is going to be a lot of support is that I think many of my colleagues have been back in their States, and for those of us who come from rural States, from agricultural States, you can't meet with people and not know we have to take some kind of action. 
   This ought to be a bipartisan issue. I think this is one issue on which all the farm organizations agree. We must have some antitrust action. We must have some bargaining power for the producers. We must put free enterprise back into the food industry. 
   But this conference report moves us further away from making any real change in farm policy. I would like to remind my colleagues that $7.1 billion for assistance for producers was allocated, but a significant portion of the funds in this bill have been dedicated to programs and projects, as worthy as they may be, that; 
   1. Do not provide assistance to family farmers or ranchers in the near term. 
   2. Are more appropriate issues for the appropriations committee to handle. 
   3. Distribute money to universities and agribusiness. 
   I would simply like to identify for my colleagues where some of this $7.1 billion, allocated for assistance for producers, will actually be going. 
   $20 million for the Market Access Program--a program that assists business trade associations and cooperatives for marketing development. How does that help the average family farmer deal with paying for health care for his family? 
   $3 million will be directed to Georgetown University and North Carolina State University for research regarding the extraction and purification of proteins from genetically altered tobacco. I ask my colleagues, could not have $3 million be better spent on direct income assistance to the thousands of small family farms who are in danger of losing their farms this year? 
   $30 million for training and technical assistance relating to the management of water and waste disposal in Alaska. As a Senator from Minnesota, I am quite sure that small dairy producers, or soybean producers in my state who are facing the biggest agricultural depression in more than a generation, would appreciate the assistance $30 million could provide--it would allow many families to at least stay in farming this year. 
   Mr. President, the plain fact is that this short term assistance is simply a band-aid. I understand the majority does not want to have any public discussion on the farm bill they enacted. That is clearly evident by the way in which they have moved this legislation to the Senate floor, with no debate or examination. 
   The point is that farmers in this country want to know, they deserve to know, whether they have a future beyond 1 year. They can't cash flow on these prices, whether it be for wheat, for corn, for cotton, for rice, or whether it be for livestock producers. They simply cannot cash flow--they cannot make it. They can work for 20 hours per day and be the best managers in the world, and they still wouldn't make it. 
   But rather than open and make changes to the farm bill and avoid these lump assistance infusions, the majority defends the status quo in farm policy. Yet, how much longer can we mask reality of failing agricultural policy? Short-term fixes are more expensive than carefully planned long-term programs. For the past 3 consecutive years, Congress has passed supplemental appropriations bill. Direct farm payments for 1999 were approximately $16 billion, making last year the highest record for direct farm payments in U.S. history.  
   We need to stop using ad-hoc assistance as a substitute for farm policy. We need to reopen and rewrite a farm bill with a strong sustainable policy. Namely, we need a farm policy that empowers farmers not only to merely survive, but to prosper. 
   And that was what the Rally for Rural America was all about. We had, from all over the country, around 4,000 people--most of them family farmers. From the State of Minnesota, we had close to 500 people here, most of them family farmers. I point out to my colleagues, this was an unusual gathering. They came to our Nation's Capital to try to have a conversation with America, to make sure people in the country know about the economic convulsion that is happening in rural America. 
   And Congress appropriately responded with a commitment to reform rural policies to: alleviate the agricultural price crisis; ensure competitive markets; invest in rural education and health care; protect our Nation's resources for future generations; and ensure a safe and secure food supply. 
   I ask my colleagues, what became of that commitment to the thousands of 
   family farmers who came to Washington, DC--I ask where is the followup? Is the followup passing $7 billion in AMTA payments that has never even been discussed in the Agriculture Committee? Is it in providing huge payments to corporate farms and agribusinesses, while leaving little for the ordinary family farmer? Or is it in ignoring the root problems in the 1996 Freedom to Fail Act. I don't think so. 
   For 2000, net farm income is forecast to decline for the 4th straight year, by 17 percent. Low prices scale across the board for almost all major crops. USDA projects that 2000 crop corn prices will be the lowest since the mid 1980's. That's 26 percent below the average of 1993-1997. Soybeans are projected to be at their lowest levels since 1986. Yet, I do not need to list all the statistics. I have been on the Senate floor, and Senators know, economists and specialists know and most importantly those who farm the land do not need to hear statistics to know times are tough. 
   Whatever our explanation for the very low commodity prices on the global market, federal farm policy needs to be there to offer some safety net to help people stay in business when this happens. We need a farm bill that establishes an equitable safety net. We need a farm bill that provides a level of financial security during periods of market disruption and commodity price instability. A safety net should include a counter cyclical price and income assistance directed to producers. One simple idea of providing a safety net is lifting caps on the loan rates. 
   In addition, long-term policy must be developed to enhance competitiveness and transparency throughout agriculture domestically and globally. We know these figures well. I and others have recited these numbers time and time again on the Senate floor. We know concentration in the agriculture economy has been accelerating at a rapid pace. 
   In the past decade and a half, the top four pork packers have increased their market share from 36 to 57 percent, the top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 to 80 percent, and the top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 to 62 percent. 
   We must halt this trend of consolidation. Congress must pass the Fair Competition Act to restore competitive markets in agriculture and give farmers more equal bargaining power against corporate business. 
   It is greatly disturbing that a handful of firms dominate the processing of every major commodity. Many of them are vertically integrated. This growing trend in concentration, low prices and anticompetitive practices are driving family-based farmers out of business. Farmers are going bankrupt or giving up, and few are taking their places. More and more farm families are having to rely on other jobs to stay afloat. In fact, reports indicate that off-farm income now constitutes as much as 90 percent of all household income received by the average farm operator. 
   There is a gross disparity of economic power that has shifted a growing share of farm income to agribusiness. We need to reverse that trend and focus on equalizing the bargaining power between farmers and the global agribusinesses. 
   According to economic literature, markets are no longer competitive if the top four firms control over 40 percent of the market. Yet, Excel and IBP control 60 percent of the beef packing industry and Kellogs and General Mills have 63 percent of the market share for cereal. 
   Policy makers wrote the 1996 farm bill and we can rewrite it. The corporate culture's powerful influence has penetrated to humankind's greatest common denominator, food. We cannot allow our lives to become beholden to corporate America. We must provide an agricultural policy that preserves the family farm and protects the food industry from an oligopoly of corporate agribusinesses. We must fight for these critical policy changes. 
   We have some differences here in the Senate. They are honestly held differences. All of us care about agriculture. All of us know what the economic and personal pain is out there in the countryside. But with no opportunity to consider and debate a fair and equitable distribution plan, and a bill that short changes the American family farmer by diverting money away from equitable income assistance, the majority in Congress has failed America's family farmers. 
   Mr. President, I say to Senator ROBERTS and Senator KERREY: Good work. Thank you for your commitment and the work on the crop insurance conference report. This report is extremely important. To farmers, this is going to make a big difference. I also thank Senator LUGAR. Senator CONRAD spoke of his graciousness, and I think he is always that way. Because of the crop insurance reform, I will vote for this conference report. 
   My dissent has to do with, again, the way we are conducting our business. The crop insurance reform is very important. But this is a crop insurance conference report. When the Budget Committee said, look, we are going to have $7 billion to deal with the farm crisis, what the Budget Committee was saying and what the Senate was saying is, rather than just doing emergency appropriations, let's have some deliberation and some policy evaluation and figure out how to get that money to people in the most equitable manner. 
   My dissent, I say to my colleagues out of respect, is that I believe we should have had debate about this. I believe that the Senate Agriculture Authorization Committee should have had hearings. I don't think it is appropriate that the $7 billion in AMTA payments--essentially doubling the AMTA payments--was put into this conference report. I don't think it was appropriate. I heard my colleague--two Senators spoke. Senator CONRAD said there are legitimate concerns, but I think this is the quickest way to get assistance out to people. Senator ROBERTS said the same thing, roughly speaking. 
   The point is that we did have some time when we could have had some hearings and when we could have had some debate on this. I do not believe we should have just automatically taken the $7 billion and said it is going to be AMTA payments, that's it. We put it into a conference report, which doesn't enable any of us to come out here and have much debate about it, and it certainly doesn't enable us to testify, doesn't enable us to have amendments and to act the way I think we should act in the Senate on such important matters. 
   Mr. President, we had this farm rally here maybe 2 months ago. Several thousand farmers came. It was pouring rain and it was cold. They came a long way. Many came by bus because, for them, they are trying to survive. I have no illusions. We are not going to write a new farm bill. The Freedom to Farm bill is really the ``freedom to fail'' bill. I have said that many times over. 
   But it does seem to me that if we are not going to write a new farm bill--at least not until after the election--we ought to do the very best we can in getting the payments to people in such a way that people who need the assistance the most are the ones who get the lion's share of the benefits. Right now, with these AMTA payments, we have a subsidy in inverse relationship to need. 
   What we have here--with no opportunity for real debate, with no opportunity for amendments--is $7 billion put into a conference report on crop insurance in the form of more AMTA payments providing subsidy to farmers  in inverse relationship to need, with the vast majority of the benefits going to the very largest agricultural operations. This is a disastrous distribution formula. I think it violates the very principle of equity and fairness. 
   Problem: 
   First of all, the AMTA payments are based upon the old farm programs' historic yields. 
   We don't have an opportunity to have an amendment on this? We don't have an opportunity to say that this is unfair to farmers, such as soybean farmers who never had a program base in the program and don't receive any AMTA payments? There is no benefit for them? We don't have an opportunity to discuss this, to have an amendment to try to improve this? 
    Second, since this was connected to the ``freedom to fail'' bill--what I call the ``freedom to fail'' bill--the payments aren't connected to production. Many of these payments go to these large landowners who aren't necessarily even producers. I want the assistance to go to the producers. I want it to have some relationship to price and to farm income. 
   Let me simply quote some of the findings from the Environmental Working Group. 
   The largest farm operations in the country are generously compensated with these payments. They are paid hundreds of thousands of dollars over a 3-year period of AMTA payments going to large farm operations, and the midsized farm operations and the smaller farm operations are not getting the benefits they need to survive. 
   Environmental Working Group: 
   From 1996 to 1998, 61 percent of all Freedom to Farm money AMTA payments--approximately $13.8 billion--went to 144,000 individuals, corporations, and farm partnerships among the top 10 percent. The top 10 percent, the large farm operations, and the least in need of assistance, get over 60 percent of the AMTA payments. It doesn't make any sense. Recipients in the top 10 percent, those large farm operations, are doing well. They get an average of $95,000 over this period of time. Half the farmers in the country get less than $3,600, and many of the farmers in my State get less than that. 
   While you have these large farm operations, that do not even need the assistance, getting well over the majority of all the money--the top 10 percent--the struggling, midsized family farmers in the State of Minnesota are lucky if they get $3,000 a year. These are the farms that are going to go under. The USDA says we are going to see a 17-percent drop in farm income this year. 
   Why in the world, when you have these transition payments--AMTA payments--going to the largest landowners who aren't even necessarily producers, based upon a program base going back years, providing the majority of the benefits to the 
   large operators, not helping those farmers who are most in need and who may not survive--why do we have $7 billion put into this conference report which doesn't have anything to do with crop insurance reform, which means we don't really get to debate it? 
   That is why we are doing it. I don't think that is Senator LUGAR's style. He is probably one of the fairest Senators, I believe, in the Senate. But I have to keep saying this. It pains me to say this on the floor because I think so much of him as an individual. But this shouldn't be in this conference report. We should have had hearings. We should have had an opportunity to come out here with amendments. 
   I would love to have had an amendment saying it is going to go to producers, and not just landowners. I would love to have had an amendment that said we need to target more to the midsized producers. I would love to have had an amendment that said it shouldn't be based upon the old program base--no opportunity. I would like to have had an amendment that called for equity payments that said raise the loan rate--we could have done it for fiscal year 2001--to the same level it is for soybeans, in which case corn would be $2.11 and wheat would be $3.10. That would make a huge difference. We could have done that. 
   We could have had, and we should have had, an opportunity to have not only a 1-hour speech or 2-hour speech in reaction to a conference report, but we should have had hearings. We should have had deliberation. We should have been able to do some serious policy evaluation. And we should have had the opportunity to come out here on the floor and/or in committee with amendments that would have made sure that until we write a new farm bill and get rid of this miserable failure--this ``freedom to fail'' bill--we would have been allocating the $7 billion of assistance with most of it going to those farmers most in need--not to the top 10 percent, the largest farm operations, those that are doing the very best right now in farm income, getting over 60 percent of the benefits. 
   The crop insurance reform package that Senators ROBERTS and KERRY worked on is superb. I am all for it. I am going to vote for this because of that. But I think it is just reprehensible that we continue now along this line of taking really important policy questions and burying them in conference reports. I don't know what the $7 billion of assistance is doing in this report. 
   I just want to conclude--because I promised my colleagues I would be brief, and then I will reserve the remainder of my time--by making one other point, which is, I hope we have the opportunity on the floor of the Senate to have debate about farm policy. I hope we can have a debate and a vote on the Fair Competition Act. 
   It is breathtaking, the extent to which these large conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table, exercising their raw economic and political power over producers, over consumers, and, I would argue, over taxpayers. What we need is some competition in the food industry. What we need is to put some free enterprise back into the free enterprise system. What we need is some antitrust action. 
   I am going to try to do everything I can as a Senator--and I know other Senators will be supportive--to get this Fair Competition Act passed, which gives USDA, if they are willing to use it, some real authority, which really gets tough in terms of 
   dealing with some of this horizontal integration that is taking place, which goes after anticompetitive practices, which really creates a level playing field for our producers, and which doesn't exist right now. 
   It is just absolutely unbelievable to me that while the family farmers in my State struggle to survive, a lot of these huge packers are making record profits. While family farmers in my State are struggling to survive, a lot of these big exporters and huge grain companies are doing just fine. While the family farmers in my State struggle to survive, the farm/retail spread grows wider and wider--the difference between what farmers get by way of price and what consumers pay at the grocery store, the supermarket. 
   I have two objections to what is going on on the floor of the Senate right now. 
   Objection No. 1: This is a great crop insurance conference report, but this $7 billion of payments should not have been put into this report. We should be allocating this assistance and getting it to the farmers most in need. We should have had the opportunity for debate and the opportunity for amendment. 
   I think it is a terrible way for us to continue to conduct our business. I hope we don't continue this pattern of more and more important public policy questions that crucially define the quality, or lack of quality, of the lives of the people we represent--in this particular case, family farmers, being put into an unrelated conference report. That is wrong. 
   The second point I make is: It is time for us to really get serious about the policy change in this area, and in particular I focus on dealing directly with the price crisis, and also the call for strong antitrust action. 
   I yield the floor, and I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am pleased to yield time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield 20 minutes to the Senator from Nebraska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Tom Lederer, a congressional fellow serving in Senator CONRAD's office, be granted floor privileges during the consideration of the crop insurance conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the floor of the Senate today because--and I speak with some sense of timing--I come from an agricultural State. 
   In the next several days we could very well have a crop insurance reform conference report out here on the floor. There is at least some discussion, some thought, and maybe some probability that included in that conference report will be about $7 billion of economic assistance for family farmers, which essentially will be more AMTA payments. 
   When the Budget Committee allowed for up to $7 billion to go to assistance for family farmers in the country, whether it be Minnesota, whether it be Montana, or any other State, I think all of us believed and hoped that this would be far superior to emergency appropriations, and that we would have the agriculture authorization committee do some fairly important investigation and analysis of the best way to get this financial assistance out to family farmers. 
   In my rush to come down to the floor, I did not bring with me the exact statistics, but basically the reports that we now see on what are called AMTA payments suggest that entirely too much of this money goes to those in least need. In other words, it is a subsidy program. Last year, it was to the tune of about $16 billion in inverse relationship to need. The top 10 percent of the producers--some of the big corporations--received over 60 percent of the benefits, and then the farmers received the rest, so that a family farm in Minnesota would be lucky to get maybe $2,000 worth of assistance; whereas, those huge operations were raking in $100,000 worth of assistance. 
   If we just take the $7 billion and put it into this conference report without any committee hearings and without taking at least several weeks after we get back to do some evaluation and some important analysis about how to get this assistance out to the people who need it the most, then I think we have not lived up to our responsibility as Senators. 
   I say to my colleagues that I think we could at the very minimum, for example, make sure that this money goes to producers. Those who own the land  but aren't involved in the production receive too much of the benefits. The benefits ought to go to the producers. 
   I would also say to my colleagues that there is no reason in the world that for fiscal year 2001 we can't focus on equity and get the loan rate up at least to the rate for soybeans, in which case corn would be $2.11 and wheat would be $3.10. Let me tell you that is the direction we need to go for a State such as mine. 
   I sent a letter yesterday to Chairman LUGAR, my colleague, a Senator for whom I happen to have a tremendous amount of respect. I will certainly get a chance to talk with him today. I believe that we are making a big mistake if we simply put this money into a conference report, which means there will not be any real discussion and no real debate. We will not have paid any attention whatsoever as to how we can allocate this financial assistance out there in the countryside so that the lion's share of the benefit goes to the farmers who are in greatest need. 
   Why in the world do we want to use the same AMTA formula which gets subsidies out to farmers in inverse relationship to need? Why not some careful consideration and some careful 
   discussion? Isn't that what we are about as legislators? 
   Too many times now in the Senate we see the same pattern of important decisions not being made by virtue of taking, in this particular case, what I think is an important question and just putting it into a conference report with no opportunity for amendments and no opportunity for discussion. I think that would be a big mistake. Instead, we can surely decide on a better formula for getting the money out there to the people. At the very minimum, it ought to go to the producers. It ought not go to landowners who are not even involved in production. 
   Again, we have an opportunity for fiscal year 2001 to literally talk about equity and at least get the loan rate up for other farmers and other grain farmers that are equal to what we do for soybeans. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, as a Senator from an agricultural State, I come to the floor today to take issue with the direction in which we are going and to urge my colleagues not to put this financial assistance money into the crop insurance bill. But instead let's do the kind of work that we ought to do as legislators. Let's do the kind of evaluation we ought to do as legislators so we can get the help out there to people who need it. 
   Farm income is going to go down 17 percent again this year. There are a lot of farmers in my State. Many are going to be driven off the land. 
   If we are not going to write a new farm bill as an alternative to this ``freedom to fail'' bill, which is one of the worst pieces of legislation ever passed by the Congress or ever signed by a President, then I don't think we are going to write a new farm bill until after the election. At the very minimum, we ought to do our best to get the assistance to the people who need it the most. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. How much time remains on the Democratic side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent for 5 minutes to speak in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, sometimes we use morning business to have a chance to speak about legislation we introduce. Sometimes we use morning business to make a plea to colleagues. Sometimes we use morning business to convey a message. I want to convey a message to some Senators about conference reports and the way we have been conducting our business. 
   Right now with the conference reports--and I am specifically talking about the bankruptcy bill--we don't have a conference committee. We have a shadow committee because Democratic Senators are not involved at all in the deliberations. There are some rumors going around in the Senate that Republicans will basically reach an agreement on the conference report on bankruptcy. Democrats will not be involved in this deliberation at all. So we have not had a conference committee meeting. We will know what is in that conference report when it is on our desk. 
   That conference report dealing with bankruptcy, believe it or not, American public, could be put into an unrelated conference report such as a conference report dealing with crop insurance. There is no longer any scope of conference rule so it can be completely unrelated. Again, that is a new way of doing business in the Senate. My argument is that is no way to do business in the Senate. 
   I believe the minority should be involved in the conference. That is a real conference. I do not believe the way to do business is for Democrats to find out what is in the bill when it is put on our desk. I certainly don't think this bankruptcy bill --which is so harsh and so egregious in its effect on the most vulnerable citizens in the country, while basically calling for no accountability or responsibility on the part of the big credit card companies--should be put into an unrelated conference report such as one dealing with crop insurance. 
   I use my time as a Senator today to say to Senators that if that happens, and I hope it won't, if that should happen tomorrow, for example, when we are supposed to go on recess, I think that would be outrageous. I will oppose it. I will speak out against it and do everything I can to block it. We would be here for days. I think there are other colleagues who will be also outraged, especially at this effort to put a shadow conference report on bankruptcy, with Democrats not even being involved--and all the reports are that the bill is getting harsher and harsher, not better--into an unrelated conference report with a day to go before we are supposed to go into recess. If that happens, I want to be clear, I don't intend to be jammed. 
   I do not intend to roll over on it. I intend to speak out against it. I intend to point out to the American people all the ways in which this is egregious legislation and the impact it will have on them and their families. That will take time. I think other Senators will join me. 
   I hope we do not conduct our business that way in the Senate. I hope I do not have to do that. I hope, instead, we will do what we need to do with the legislative branch and with judicial nominations, with the nomination of Brad Smith, have those votes, get onto other work, but not have last minute efforts to sort of jam legislation into unrelated legislation and attempt to ram it through here without the deliberation and without the discussion. 
   I do not think that is the Senate at its best. I certainly, as a Senator from Minnesota, cannot represent people in my State and people in the country that way, and I will not. I will challenge it. So I hope it does not come to that. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me thank both Senator BENNETT and Senator FEINSTEIN for their important work. I just want to echo the comments of my colleague from Massachusetts, Senator KENNEDY, in support of providing adequate funding to pay all the people who help us do our work in the Senate. I too support a wage increase for the many people who work here, who don't make near the money we make, don't have near the salary we have. I promise the Chair that if it were the House Democrats who had made these cuts, my condemnation would be just as strong. The action the House took, cutting funding for salaries was a mistake, and it wasn't fair. I think that on the Senate side, in a bipartisan way, we have done a good job. 
   I thank Senator MIKULSKI and all the other Senators here, including Senators DASCHLE, MURRAY, REID, SARBANES, and KENNEDY, for their support for full funding for the Capitol Police Department. I just want to read the last part of the Mikulski amendment, that I am proud to be an original cosponsor of:  
   It is the sense of the Senate that the United States Capitol Police and all legislative employees are to be commended for their commitment, professionalism, and great patriotism; and the conferees on the legislative branch appropriations legislation should maintain the Senate position on funding for the United States Capitol Police and all legislative branch employees.  
   My hope is that all 100 Senators will come out here on the floor and speak in support of this amendment and in support of all the work that Capitol Police do to keep the Capitol safe. In a way, it is almost shocking that the Senator from Maryland feels the need to introduce this sense-of-the-Senate amendment. I think we ought to really think deeply as to why it is necessary to come out with an amendment that basically says that we value the Capitol Police and all the Senate employees. 
   I just want to make this appeal to all my colleagues that they come down to the floor and express their support for all the people who work in the Senate. I hope Republican Senators will come out here as well and speak. Maybe all of us can take 15 or 20 minutes. I think that sends a much more powerful message. 
   What I regret is that the House Republicans chose to cut the Capitol Police budget by 11 percent; that is a $10 million cut. Here is the problem. Forget the money. Anybody who watches us on the floor might say: What are they talking about, a sense-of-the-Senate amendment, an 11-percent cut, a $10 million cut; what does it mean? 
   This is what it means. First of all, we will never forget that we lost two officers, Officer Chestnut and Agent Gibson, in 1998. Many of us were at their service. It was so moving and so powerful. We made a commitment we would do everything possible to make sure that the police officers here--Capitol Police officers--would be working under the best of conditions, that they would be safe, that they could do their job and not be put in peril. 
   Their job is to protect all the people who visit the Capitol. I have given enough speeches to deafen the gods about this. I have probably spoken 15 times on the floor of the Senate in support of the Capitol police. Today, I get to come out here as an original cosponsor of this amendment and say I really believe it is critically important that the Capitol police be recognized for the worth of their work, the importance of their work, and also that we make sure we do everything humanly possible, as legislators, so that they work under the best conditions, which translates into making sure we do everything we know how to do to make sure we never again lose any police officers. 
   What the House Republicans did in their proposal would mean the elimination of some 400 police officers. That is no way to say thank you to the Capitol police--to have an 11-percent cut in their budget, to have a cut of hundreds of police officers, to have 
   even less backup for officers; that is no way to say thank you to the Capitol Hill Police. It is certainly no way to honor Officer Chestnut, Officer Gibson, and their families--no way. 
   So I want to make crystal clear on the floor of the Senate that I believe that it is important that we all speak--not just Democrats, but Republicans as well--in support of this amendment to  send a message as Senators to the Capitol Hill police and their families that we have a tremendous amount of appreciation for the work they do, we value the work they do, we value them as friends, and we just simply want to say thank you and we intend to continue to support the Capitol Police. In addition, I believe that the work that Senator BENNETT and Senator FEINSTEIN have done matters more than any words I can utter here on the floor of the Senate. 
   The last point that this amendment is important, and the reason I hope Senators will speak on it, is to show our united support and respect for the men and women of the Capitol Police force, who protect us each and every day. In the days following the House actions to cut funding for the force, many of the police officers were just demoralized. How many people have said--as a matter of fact, we are losing Capitol Hill police members to the D.C. Police Force because they do feel they have the respect and support of the people they are here to protect. 
   But part of it is, I say to Senator REID, who was a Capitol Hill policeman--the only Member of the Senate who served on that police force--that part of the question of whether or not people continue to work here and feel good about their work is whether or not people think they are respected. You know, in light of what we have gone through for the past several years, when you then cut the budget and you potentially put some of these police officers in harm's way, you certainly are not communicating a message to these police that we value their work. You are communicating the opposite message. I think what the House Republican ``leadership'' did on this issue was one of the worst things that has been done here, at least since I have served starting in 1991. 
   I feel really good about what we have done on the Senate side. I feel really good that we have done it in a bipartisan way, and I feel good that I get a chance to support the Mikulski amendment. I want to, one more time, make the appeal to Republican Senators: Look, the truth of the matter is--and I don't want to get people angry at me--it is not as if we are doing a lot right now and we don't have time for people to come out and speak. I think we ought to get as many Senators as possible to speak on this resolution because it is important that we communicate a message of strong support for these police officers. 
   I thank my colleagues, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could I ask my colleague for 5 seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I forgot to also thank Jim Ziglar, the Sergeant at Arms on the Senate side, who has done great work on this question. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my time be counted against the time allocated to the opposition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will build on the comments of my colleague from Wisconsin. I heard the Senator from Kentucky talk about the fact that Brad Smith--and I said yesterday he is somebody I like and enjoy being with--has been critical of the Federal election laws. It is not just being critical. He has called the Federal Elections Campaign Act unconstitutional and undemocratic. That is more than just being critical. 
   I cannot remember a time when this body confirmed a nominee for any executive position whose own views were so completely at odds with the law he was meant to uphold. 
   Let me repeat that. That is what this debate is about. I cannot remember a time when this body confirmed a nominee for any executive position whose own views were so completely at odds with the law he was meant to uphold. He believes the Federal election law is unconstitutional and undemocratic. 
   I do not have the time today to summarize a complete position. I had a chance yesterday to speak about this nominee. I say to my colleagues, this vote is not just about Brad Smith; it is about whether or not the Senate is committed to reform. I do not think we give people in the country much confidence that we are committed to reform, that we are committed to passing legislation which will get some of this big money out of politics and which will lead to some authentic democracy as opposed to just democracy for the few, when we then turn around and confirm someone to the Federal Election Commission who does not even believe in any of this campaign finance reform. The Senate would be sending a terrible message to the country if we vote for this nominee. 
   I appreciate Brad Smith's right to express his views in writing and in person. He is articulate, he is intelligent, but we have a situation where we have a nominee who basically has said the Federal election laws are undemocratic, that they are unconstitutional, basically antithetical to all the values he holds dear about government and democracy. 
   Why in the world would we then want to confirm such a nominee and put him in a position of enforcing the very laws with which he is so at odds? To me it is a huge mistake. This is a vote about reform. This is a vote about Brad Smith. More importantly, it is a vote about whether or not we are serious about reform and getting some of the money out of politics and getting people back into politics. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleague, Senator FEINGOLD, and strongly oppose the nomination of Bradley A. Smith to the Federal Election Commission. Mr. Smith has no confidence in federal election law, indeed he believes it to be ``undemocratic'' and ``unconstitutional.'' As a member of the FEC he will have the opportunity to put those views into practice and actually shape election law through rulemaking. But worst of all, Mr. Smith doesn't just disagree with the law, he disagrees with the express purpose of the law--limiting the corrupting influence of money in politic. An FEC nominee who's own personal beliefs and philosophies are so at odds with the purposes and authority of the Federal Election Campaign Act should be rejected by a pro-reform Congress. 
   I oppose the Smith nomination not only because his philosophies are antithetical to present law, but because I believe they are antithetical to broad political participation, to lowering the price of access to the legislative process, restoring Americans faith in our system, and they are antithetical to everything that is necessary for a functioning democracy. 
   But before I make my case that the Senate should reject this nomination, let me say this. I have met Mr. Smith and found him to be an earnest and learned advocate of his point of view. I have no reason to question Mr. Smith's honor or his intentions and even his harshest critics do not make the claim that Mr. Smith does not have a strong technical understanding of the law. He seems to be a good guy, so this is not personal and I hope that he does not take my criticisms personally. But I do feel that given Mr. Smith's views, he is a poor fit for this job. 
   Mr. Smith is a very vocal and articulate critic of current election law--to say nothing of the various reform proposals introduced by members of this body. In fact, Mr. Smith is widely regarded as one of the foremost critics of the current campaign finance system. He has written numerous articles on the subject, he has frequently appeared before Congressional Committees, sat on panels and has appeared on television. Throughout the body of his writings and public appearances he has been consistent: He believes the Federal Election Campaign Act is unworkable, unconstitutional, and undemocratic. 
   Mr Smith takes the argument one step further: he is an aggressive proponent of near complete deregulation of the campaign finance system and believes that nearly any attempts to regulate the relationship between money and elections is folly. For example, in a 1997 Georgetown Law review article Mr. Smith states quote:  
   I have previously argued at length that campaign finance regulation generally makes for bad public policy. Campaign finance regulation tends to reduce the flow of information to the public, to favor select elites, to hinder grass roots political activity, to favor special interests, to promote influence peddling, and to entrench incumbents in office.  
   I don't want to belabor this point. Other colleagues are speaking to this issue and in all honesty it's the least of my objections to the nomination. But in all I would simply say this to my colleagues: I cannot remember a time when this body confirmed a nominee--for any executive position--who's own views were so completely at odds with the law he was meant to uphold. Mr. Smith claims that his own strong opinions notwithstanding he can and will enforce the law. Still, I don't see how he can be true to both the law and his convictions. He will be responsible for administering a law that in his view that pose a threat to ``political liberty.'' He will be appointed to perpetuate a system that he feels was made ``more corrupt and unequal'' by the Federal Elections Campaign Act. Speaking for myself, I would not want to be charged with enforcing a law that is antithetical to everything I know about politics, democracy, and good government--as Smith feels about current law. But the Senate is being asked to confirm a nominee with just that perspective. 
   If the FEC were simply an empty vessel, mindlessly executing the will of the Congress as stated in the Federal Election Campaign Act, Mr. Smith's extreme views would be trouble enough. But that isn't how the system works. And, in fact, the FEC has considerable leeway in interpreting FECA when it issues rules. The following are three examples of how a person with Smith's attitudes about the law could do a lot of damage to the integrity of the system of regulations that govern election spending: 
   No. 1. Redefining ``coordination''--Under current law, contributions to candidates are limited, but independent spending is unlimited. In order to avoid evasion of the contribution limits, the law specifies that any spending that is done in coordination with a candidate counts as a contribution to the campaign. However, the FEC currently is considering a proposed rulemaking that would define ``coordination'' so narrowly as to make it meaningless. Under the proposed rule, there would be no coordination unless the FEC could prove that a candidate specifically requested an expenditure, actually exercised control over the expenditure, or reached an actual agreement with the candidate concerning the expenditure. This rulemaking, if approved, would open a massive loophole that would enable a spender to maintain high level contacts with a campaign and still claim to be acting independently. This is a prime example of how a Commissioner can eviscerate the law while claiming to enforce it. 
   No. 2. Neglecting to close the ``soft money'' loophole--Soft money--which the Senate has spent years trying to ban--was basically ``created'' by an FEC interpretation of the law. Recently, a complaint filed by five 
   members of Congress and a separate complaint filed by President Clinton have urged the FEC to close the ``soft money'' loophole administratively. The FEC's Office of General Counsel has submitted a notice of proposed rulemaking which outlines the steps that the Commission can take to close the ``soft money'' loophole if it so chooses. Brad Smith's view that it is unconstitutional to prohibit ``soft money'' makes it likely that he would reject a recommendation from the General Counsel to close the ``soft money'' loophole. 
   No. 3. Regulation of election-related activity over the internet--The FEC is currently considering the whole range of issues raised by the use of the internet to conduct political activity. This is a largely uncharted area, and the current and future FEC Commissioners will play an important role in determining how internet communications will be treated under the law. Brad Smith's view that the federal government should scrap all of its campaign  finance reform efforts can be expected to strongly color his policy judgment about what regulations the FEC ultimately should issue in this area of the law. 
   I want my colleagues to be clear on this point: This nominee is no empty vessel. He will have the opportunity to actually shape election law through rulemaking--colleagues shouldn't kid themselves that FEC commissioners can just ``follow the law'' and that their personal biases don't matter. An anti-campaign finance law Commission, can promote anti-campaign finance law rules. 
   Mr. President, I do want to take some time to get to the heart of my objection to the Smith nomination: He doesn't just disagree with the law, he disagrees with the express purpose of the law. The express purpose of the Federal Election Campaign Act is to limit the disproportionate influence of wealthy individuals and special interest groups on the outcome of federal elections; regulate spending in campaigns for federal office; and deter abuses by mandating public disclosure of campaign finances. Mr. Smith doesn't just quibble with how the law achieves those goals, he disagrees with those goals completely! Mr. Smith believes that money--regardless of how much or where it comes from--has no corrupting or disenfranchising influence on elections. 
   For example lets look at what Smith wrote on the effect of money on how the Congress conducts its business, on what gets considered and what doesn't, on who has power and who does not. This is from ``The Sirens' Song: Campaign Finance Regulation and the First Amendment.'' Smith argues:  
   If campaign contributions have any meaningful effect on legislative voting behavior, it appears to be on a limited number of votes that are generally related to technical issues arousing little public interest. On such issues, prior contributions may provide the contributor with access to the legislator of legislative staff. The contributor may then be able to shape legislation to the extent that such efforts are not incompatible with the dominant legislative motives of ideology, party affiliation and agenda, and constituent views. Whether the influence of campaign contributions on these limited issues is good or bad depends on one's views of the legislation. The exclusion of knowledgeable contributors from the legislative process can just as easily lead to poor legislation with unintended consequences as their inclusion. But in any case, it must be stressed that such votes are few.  
   Let me explain what I find so chilling about this statement. It would be one thing if Mr. Smith argued that money had no effect on policy. That regardless of the endless anecdotes and personal testimonials of members of Congress past and present, that having lots of money on your side buys you no extra influence in Congress. Some members of this body take that position. I think it's wrong, I think it's naive, I think the American people see through it. In other words, it would be bad enough if that was Smith's view. But isn't. He asserts that money plays a role but only on ``technical issues that arouse little public interest''--but worse, doesn't seem to be concerned about it! 
   It does not appear to matter to Brad Smith that money affects the process on those issues that outside of the public attention! Well with all due respect, most of what we do takes place below the surface here! We pass bills with scores of obscure provisions, hundred of pages long. No one knows what they all do, we can't know. We vote on them without knowing. It is there that the system is most ripe for abuse, where the greatest potential exists for those with the money, the clout, the access to game the system, but Mr. Smith isn't much worried about it. 
   I agree with Smith that it is the small, stealth provisions which are most likely to appear or disappear because of money. But where I strongly disagree with Smith is that I believe that this is a problem. It should be aberrational, not typical. I think it's outrageous that because a person is in a position to donate $200,000 to the NRSC or the DSCC that person is in a position to dictate policy--regardless of how obscure. I think it's wrong that a line in a bill can be bought and paid for with a campaign contribution. I think it's wrong that a patent extension or favorable tariff treatment is up for sale. Because the matters are obscure, they are even more ripe for abuse. I won't speak for my colleagues, but I'd like the Commissioners on the FEC to be concerned with these abuses. 
   For example, I point my colleagues to an excellent article in the February 7 issue of Time magazine entitled ``How to Become a Top Banana'' by Donald Barlett and James Steele. This article details how it came to pass that the U.S. government imposed 100% tariffs on obscure European imports in an ongoing attempt to force the European Union to allow market access for Chiquita Bananas. As the article notes, the U.S. Trade Representative imposed tariff rates on products essential to the 
   economic health of several U.S. small businesses to promote the interests of a firm who does not even grow its bananas in the United States. As it turns out, campaign contributions may have played a big role. The article concludes:  
   So what does the battlefield look like as the Great Banana War's tariffs approach their first anniversary? Well, the operators of some small businesses, like Reinert, are limping along from month to month. Other small-business people are filing fraudulent Customs documents to escape payment. Other businesses are doing just fine because their suppliers in Europe agreed to pick up the tariff or it applies to just a small percentage of the goods they sell. In Europe as in America, small businesses have been harmed by the U.S. tariffs. Larger companies have been mostly unaffected. And the European Union has kept in place its system of quotas and licenses to limit Chiquita bananas. Who, then, is the winner in this war? 
   That's easy. It's the President, many members of Congress and the Democratic and Republican parties--all of whom have milked the war for millions of dollars in campaign contributions--along with the lobbyists who abetted the process. A final note. While Lindner (owner of Chiquita banana) had many areas of political interest beyond his battle with the European Union, a partial accounting of the flow of his dollars during the Great Banana War--as measured by contributions of $1,000 or more--as well as lobbying expenditures on the war, shows: Republicans--$4.2 million, Democrats--$1.4 million Washington lobbyists--$1.5 million.  
   Just look at the bankruptcy bills passed by the House and the Senate. I'm told Committee staff refer to the provisions based on which industry ``paid'' for them. This provision is for the credit card companies, this one for the real estate industry, and so on it goes. As the Wall Street Journal noted on April 20 in an article entitled ``Bankruptcy Reform Pits Industries Against Each Other'':  
   Lawmakers like to portray the battle over bankruptcy reform as a clash of principles: stopping debtors from shirking their obligations or creditors from fleecing the needy. But in the back rooms of Capital Hill, the nature of the fight changes. Industry lobbyists, many ostensibly allied in favor of bankruptcy overhaul legislation, vie to carve out as many favors for their clients as possible at the expense other business groups. These contests pit auto companies against credit card issuers, retailers against Realtors and the Delaware bar against lawyers from the rest of the U.S.  
   Again, the major political parties seem to be the major winners in all of this (well, aside from the lenders)--and certainly not low and moderate income debtors. Contributions from the lending industry to both parties since 1997 tops $20 million. 
   But that doesn't much concern Mr. Smith, the man who would be in charge of enforcing our campaign finance laws. 
   Smith even argues even more explicitly that tying legislation to campaign contributions is not necessarily a bad thing. Or at least that being attentive to campaign contribution will make politicians more attentive to the public. He argues in ``A Most Uncommon Cause'':  
   What reformers mean by corruption is that legislators react to the wishes of certain constituents, or what, in other circumstances, might be called `responsiveness.' The reformist position is that legislators shape their votes and other activities based on campaign contributions. They call this corruption. Money dominates the policy making process, they argue, unfairly frustrating the popular will. ..... For one this, it is proper, to some extent, for a legislator to vote in ways that will please constituents, which may, from the legislators viewpoint, have the beneficial effect of making those constituents more likely to donate to the legislators re-election campaign.''  
   But who does it make them more attentive to? The wealthy, the heavier hitters, the tiny proportion of the population who can make substantial contributions to candidates. Again, the fact that Smith admits this is the case is not surprising. Many critics of private money in politics draw the same conclusion. What colleagues should find outrageous is that Smith, again,  sees nothing wrong with this relationship. 
   It is the money in politics which has stripped away from many Americans the capacity to have one's vote weigh as much as the person in the next polling booth, to have a vote in the South Central, LA to be worth as much as a vote in Beverly Hills. The vote is undermined by the dollar. The vote may be equally distributed, but dollars are not. As long as elections are privately financed, those who can afford to give more will always have a leg up--in supporting candidates, in running for office themselves, and in gaining access and influence with those who get elected. We all know this is the way it works. And the American people know it, too. 
   Bizarrely, though, Smith argues that wealth, and therefore the ability to affect elections is distributed equitably enough through out our society that the inordinate influence of money is not inordinately concentrated among a small subset of the population. In a 1997 piece entitled ``Money Talks: Speech, Equality, and Campaign Finance'' Smith states:  
   Very few citizens have the talent, physical and personal attributes, luck of time and place, or wealth to influence political affairs substantially. Thus a relatively small number of individuals will always have political influence far exceeding that of their neighbors. However, to the extent that wealth (however that might be defined) than there are citizens capable of running a political campaign, producing quality political advertising, writing newspaper editorials, coaching voice, and so on. In other words, it may be true that more people are ``good looking'' than rich, it may be true that more people are ``educated'' than rich. However, the number of people capable of meaningful nonmonetary contributions to a political campaign--that is the type of contribution that will give the individual some extra say in policy-making--is much smaller than the group of monied people.  
   I frankly think this argument is ridiculous and insulting. It suggests that if you're not a $500 an hour consultant telling the candidate to wear earth tones, if you're not a big name pollster you can't make a meaningful nonmonetary contribution to a political campaign. No one who has actually run for office would hold this view. Taken to a logical extreme its effect would be to limit participation by those other than the monied elite--the hundred of folks who volunteer at a phone bank, put up yard signs, or write letters to the editor. My point is that almost everyone has something to offer regardless of how wealthy they are. 
   But there is a larger point here; the fact that Brad Smith believes that there are more people in America capable of donating $1000 than there are people who can take a few afternoons to lick envelopes. I'm not sure where Smith comes by this view but it obviously falls on its face. 
   Of course, it does explain where Smith is coming from. I mean, if you believe that money is speech and that campaign contributions profoundly impacts the legislative process, you are one of two things: You are either a defender of a political oligarchy of the wealthy and well-heeled or you believe that this money, this power, is distributed equally throughout society. To be fair to Smith, he genuinely seems to hold the latter view. But while this might be a less cynical reason to be comfortable with money influencing politics, he's still flat out wrong. In fact, he has it completely backward. 
   The picture of those who contribute the vast majority of money to candidates under the current contribution limits does not look like America, it is overwhelmingly white, male, and wealthy. A study conducted of donors in the `96 election found the following characteristics of such donors: 95 percent were white, 80 percent were male, 50 percent were over 60 years of age and 81 percent had annual incomes of over $100,000. The population at large in the United States had the following characteristics at that time: 17 percent was non-white, 51 percent were women, 12.8 percent were over 60, and only 4.8 percent had incomes over $100,000. 
   For example, the organization Public Campaign found that during the 1996 elections, just one zip code--10021, in New York City--contributed $9.3 million. There are only 107,000 people in that exclusive slice of Manhattan real estate and the vast majority (91 percent) are white. On the other side of the lop-sided equation are 9.5 million residents of the 483 U.S. communities that are more than 90 percent people of color. They gave $5.5 million. Are these groups equal before the law? 
   Additionally, Only a spectacularly small portion of U.S. citizens contribute more than $200 to political campaigns. In the first half of 1999:  
   Only 4 out of every 10,000 Americans (.037%) has made a contribution greater than $200. 
   As of June 30, 1999 only .022% of all Americans had given $1000 to a presidential candidate. 
   In the `98 election, .06% of all Americans gave $1000, or 1 in 5000.  
   So again, Smith has the argument precisely backward, because so few can effectively participate through campaign contributions it is inherently unequal means of political participation. The fact that a few actors--big corporations, Unions, the truly wealthy--have nearly limitless funds to pour into races exacerbates the disparity between the average citizen and the monied citizen. But other means of political participation are inherently limited--no matter who you are, there are still no more than 24 hours in a day or seven days in a week--do no one has that much of an advantage. 
   But Smith goes further than simply arguing that campaign contributions can buy legislative favors, he argues in ``Money Talks'' that money is speech--not in the sense that it buys speech or allows for getting out the candidates message--but in the sense that making a campaign contribution is an act of symbolic, political speech in of itself. This argument, I should point out to colleagues, goes way beyond the Supreme Court's linkage between speech and money in Buckley. Smith argues:  
   The Court's rationale that contribution limits only ``marginally'' burden First amendment rights is suspect on its own and at odds with the traditional First Amendment right of association. The Court was correct that the size of a contribution does not express the underlying basis of support, but wrong when it held that it involved ``little direct restraint on political communication.'' Is not a substantially different message communicated when a local merchant pledges $10,000 to one charity (or political campaign) and just $25 to another? In such an instance, is it not the size of the donation, rather than the act of donating, that sends the strongest message to the community? It is true that the basis of support for the cause (or candidate) remains vague, yet the message in each gift is substantially different. 
   Combined with the fact that only a tiny percentage of voting citizens are making large hard money contributions (much less truly massive soft money contributions) Smith is advocating for a system where much political speech is effectively closed to most Americans because they can't muster the means to make a send a loud ``message.'' 
   If money equals speech, we can clearly see who we are letting do all the talking--or at least those are the folks that we're listening to. The hopes, dreams, concerns, and problems of the vast majority of the American people are going unheard because the bullhorn of the $1,000 contribution drowns them out. Why would be want to make that bullhorn bigger and louder? Why would we want to give greater access and more control to those who already have it locked up? But that is the direction that this FEC nominee would see us go in. 
   Like Smith, I too am a critic of our mechanism for financing of elections. This current system of funding congressional campaigns is inherently anti-democratic and unfair. It creates untenable conflicts of interests and screens out many good candidates. By favoring the deep pockets of special interest groups, it tilts the playing field in a way that sidelines the vast majority of Americans. But unlike Smith, I support reforms that would expand political participation. Unlike Smith I have no illusions that inequities in wealth--in a system where wealth rules--do not result in a distorted product. 
   In 1966 in the case of Harper versus Virginia State Board of Elections, the Supreme Court struck down a poll tax of $1.50 in Virginia state elections. The Court stated in its decision that, quote, the ``State violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment whenever it makes the affluence of the voter or payment of any fee an electoral standard. Voter qualifications have no relation to wealth.'' 
   In 1972 in Bullock versus Carter, the Court again faced the issue of wealth in  the electoral process and again stated that such a barrier was unconstitutional. This time, the question concerned a system of high filing fees that the state of Texas required candidates to pay, in order to appear on the primary ballot. The fees ranged from $150 to $8,900. 
   The Court invalidated the system on Equal Protection grounds. It found that, with the high filing fees, quote: ``potential office seekers lacking both personal wealth and affluent backers are in every practical sense precluded from seeking the nomination of their chosen party, no matter how qualified they might be and no matter how enthusiastic their popular support.'' 
   The ``exclusionary character'' of the system also violated the constitutional rights of non-affluent voters. ``We would ignore reality,'' the Court stated, ``were we not to find that this system falls with unequal weight on voters, as well as candidates, according to their economic status.'' unquote. These cases may have no literal legal implications for our system, where deep pockets--either one's own or one's political friends--are a prerequisite for success. But they do have a moral implication. 
   I do believe that in America's elections today we have a wealth primary, a barrier to participation to those who are not themselves wealthy or who refuse to buy in to monied interests. Is it an absolute barrier? No. Does it mean that every candidate for federal office is corrupt? No. However, the price we pay is what the economists would call the ``opportunity cost.'' It is a cost represented by lost opportunities, by settling for those who are most electable rather than those who are the best representatives of the American people. And I do not believe that in a system where money equals power, inequality of wealth can be reconciled with equality of participation. 
   That, I say to my colleagues, is why I cannot support Mr. Smith's nomination. And it isn't that he is a critic of the present system. Indeed I agree with Smith that fixing the system is not fundamentally an issue of tightening already existing campaign financing laws, no longer a question of what's legal and what's illegal. The real problem is that most of what's wrong with the current system is perfectly legal. 
   Many people believe our political system is corrupted by special interest money. I agree with them. It is not a matter of individual corruption. I think it is probably extremely rare that a particular contribution causes a member to cast a particular vote. But the special interest money is always there, and I believe that we do suffer under what I have repeatedly called a systemic corruption. Unfortunately, this is no longer a shocking announcement, even if it is a shocking fact. Money does shape what is considered do-able and realistic here in Washington. It does buy access. We have both the appearance and the reality of systemic corruption. 
   I wonder if anyone would bother to argue that the way we are moving toward a balanced federal budget is unaffected by the connection of big special-interest money to politics? The cuts we are imposing most deeply affect those who are least well off. That is well-documented. The tax breaks we offer benefit not only the most affluent as a group, but numerous very narrow wealthy special interests. Does anyone wonder why we retain massive subsidies and tax expenditures for oil and pharmaceutical companies? What about tobacco? Are they curious why we promote a health care system dominated by insurance companies? Or why we promote a version of ``free trade'' which disregards the need for fair labor and environmental standards, for democracy and human rights, and for lifting the standard of living of American workers, as well as workers in the countries we trade with? How is it that we pass major legislation that directly promotes the concentration of ownership and power in the telecommunications industry, in the agriculture and food business, and in banking and securities? For the American people, how this happens, I think, is no mystery. 
   For this reason, I support public financing of elections. It is a matter of common sense, not to mention plain observation, that to whatever extent campaigns are financed with private money, people with more of it have an advantage and people with less of it are disadvantaged. 
   I think most citizens believe there is a connection between big special interest money and outcomes in American politics. People realize what is ``on the table'' or what is considered realistic here in Washington often has much to do with the flow of money to parties and to candidates. We must act to change this, but a vote for Smith is to move the FEC, and the debate over campaign finance reform, in the opposite direction. 
   Despite his obvious command of the law, Brad Smith has shown himself through his writings to be completely insensitive to the realities of political participation in America. He is smart enough to know better. The Senate should send a message that it is smart enough to know better too. I urge a no vote. 
   Recently, a complaint was filed by five Members of Congress and a separate complaint filed by President Clinton which urged the FEC to close the soft money loophole. Brad Smith's view that it is unconstitutional to prohibit soft money makes it likely he will reject any recommendation from general counsel to close the soft money loophole. 
   Regulation of election-related activity on the Internet--the FEC is looking at a whole range of issues that are based upon or deal with the use of the Internet to conduct political activities. Again, I do not know the potential for all the abuses and the ways in which people can attack and people can raise money for the attack and what they can do on the Internet. I do know Brad Smith's view that the Federal Government should scrap all of its campaign finance reform efforts can be expected to strongly color his policy judgment about what regulations the FEC ultimately should issue in this area of law. 
   For other colleagues who are thinking of coming to the floor, I will not take a lot more time. I will reserve the remainder of my time. I want to put forth a couple of points. 
   First of all, Senator FEINGOLD and I have been in opposition. We were part of an agreement this nomination would come to the floor, but that has to do also with the ability to get a number of judges considered. We certainly need to start voting on judges. 
   I do not believe, I say to my colleagues, that these votes are independent of one another. I do not think colleagues ought to be voting for Brad Smith, the argument being that only if he is so confirmed will judges pass. I do not believe that is part of any formal agreement, and it should not be a part of any informal agreement. We ought to vote on these candidates on the basis of their qualifications. We ought to be voting on them on the basis of what it is we ask them to do in Government. 
   While I respect Brad Smith's intellectual ability and while I like him as a person--and I am not just saying that--I believe it would be a terrible mistake for the Senate to confirm him. It sends a terrible message of our viewpoint of the mix of money in politics and whether or not we are serious about any reform. 
   In many ways, this is the core problem--the mix of money in politics. I believe we have moved dangerously close to a system of democracy for the few. Money has hijacked politics in this country. It is no wonder we see a decline in the participation of people in public life and politics. Most people believe money dominates politics, and it does. 
   I am in disagreement with Brad Smith. Money--other Senators can come to the floor and disagree and debate--determines all too often who gets to run. All too often it determines who wins the election or who loses the election. All too often it determines what issues we even put on the table and consider. All too often it determines the outcome of specific votes on amendments or bills. All too often on a lot of the details of legislation, special interests are able to get their way. All too often it is on the basis of some people, some organizations, some groups having way too much wealth and power and the majority of the people left out. 
   It is incredible to me. We have all become so used to this system that we have forgotten the ways in which it can be so corrupting, not in terms of individual Senators doing wrong because someone offers them a contribution and, therefore, a Senator votes  this way or that way. I do not think that happens. I hope it does not happen. I pray it does not happen. 
   I will say this. We have the worst kind of corruption of all. It is systemic, and it is an imbalance between those people who have all the financial resources and the majority of people in the country who do not. It is when too few of those people have way too much of the power and the majority of the people feel left out. When that happens, there is such an imbalance of access, influence, say, and power in the country that the basic standard in a democracy that each person should count as one, and no more than one, is seriously violated. 
   It is interesting, I point out for colleagues, in the first half of 1999, just looking at the contributions, only 4 out of every 10,000 Americans, .03 percent, made a contribution greater than $200. As of June 30, 1999, .022 percent of all Americans had given $1,000 to a Presidential candidate. In the 1998 election, .06 percent of all Americans gave $1,000, and that was 1 in 5,000. 
   This does not even take into account all the soft money contributions. This does not take into account the $500,000 and the $1 million contributions. What happens is that the vast majority of people in the country--I am sorry, not just poor people who do not have financial resources--the vast majority of people in the United States of America believe their concerns--for themselves, their families, and their communities--are of little concern in the corridors of power in Washington, DC, where they see a political system and a politics dominated by big money and, therefore, really believe they are shut out. We have given them entirely too much justification for that point of view. 
   I do not see how in the world we can vote for Brad Smith, given how clear he is in his opposition to reform. Given the positions he has taken which go in the exact opposite direction of believing that money in any way, shape, or form can be corrupting of this political system and corrupting of democracy, we send a terrible message to people in this country if we vote for this nominee. 
   Again, I am not all that excited about coming here and making these arguments, especially when it is about an individual person. I am not talking about Brad Smith; I am talking about his viewpoint. I think he is wrong. I would love to be in a debate with him. I probably would have a tough time in a debate with him. He has a tremendous amount of ability. It would be a fun debate. I would enjoy it. 
   The point is, you can respect someone; you can say you would love to debate somebody; you appreciate their writing; you appreciate the speech they have given; you appreciate the lecture they have given--I was a college professor--but to see them on the Federal Election Commission is a different story when he is asked to implement the very laws he says he does not believe in, when he is asked to be there to make decisions--FEC is not an empty vessel, and he certainly is not an empty vessel--where key decisions are going to be made about coordination, soft money, and a whole set of issues that are dramatically important to whether we have a democracy or not. 
   I cannot vote for him. I believe Senators should oppose this nomination. I do not know what the final vote will be. Maybe there will be a majority vote for him, maybe there will not. His nomination is put forth at precisely the wrong time in the history of American politics in the country. 
   I say that because I believe people in this country yearn for change. Senator MCCAIN is on the floor. He will be speaking later. His campaign certainly tapped into that. His campaign brought that out in people. That is but one powerful example. 
   People would love to have a Government they believe is their Government. They would love to have a Senate and a House of Representatives they believe belong to them. People right now--I have said it before in the Senate--believe that if you pay, you play, and if you don't pay, you don't play. 
   Above and beyond this debate, I want us to get to the point where we make some significant change. What is at stake on this whole reform question is basically whether or not we will continue to have a vibrant representative democracy. If your standard is that each person should count for no more than one, we have moved so far away from that standard, it is frightening. 
   This may be a terrible thing to say on the floor of the Senate because I love being a Senator. I will thank Minnesota for the rest of my life for giving me this chance. In many ways I think we have a pseudodemocracy, a minidemocracy. We have participation, we have government of, by and for maybe about 20 percent or less of the people. 
   There are many things that need to be done which can lead to democratic renewal. One of them is to get serious about the ways in which money has come to dominate politics, the ways in which we now have the most severe imbalance of power we could imagine, which is dangerous to the very idea of representative democracy. 
   I want to see us move to a clean money-clean election. I love what Massachusetts has done; I love what Arizona has done; I love what Maine has done; and I love what Vermont has done. I know other States want to do it. If I ever get the chance, I am going to offer a bill or an amendment that will say that every State should apply clean money-clean election campaigns not only to their State races but to Federal races, give the right to the States as to whether or not they want to have essentially a fund people can draw from--maybe everybody contributes a few dollars a year--which enables people to say: By God, these are our elections; our voice counts; no one person and no one interest is dominant. 
   There will be the McCain-Feingold bill. I will be pushing hard for the clean money-clean election effort. There are other people who have had ideas. I want us to come out here and get serious about passing reform legislation. We are not there yet; I know that. I think the mode of power for change is going to have to come from a citizen politics; a citizen politics will have to be the money politics. You will have to have an engaged, energized, excited, empowered, determined citizen politics that is going to force us to pass this reform legislation. 
   In the meantime, I urge colleagues not to vote for Brad Smith's nomination--not because he isn't a good person; he is--because of the basic philosophy he holds, the basic viewpoint he holds which is so antithetical to reform. I think this is a test case as to whether or not we are serious about the business of reform. I hope we vote no. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have gone back and forth on this question. Let me start by making a couple of quick points. 
   First of all, I would be more than pleased to test this question about whether or not we should have a peacekeeping force in Kosovo. I would be more than pleased to have an up-or-down vote on the Kosovo peacekeeping operation today or this week. Frankly, I think that is the way we should do it. That would be a true test of accountability. 
   I have a high doctrine of War Powers and have always insisted on appropriate congressional authorization of the use of troops in situations where they might face hostilities or imminent hostilities. I think that is required by our Constitution and by our system of checks and balances. 
   But I think there is a subtle difference here between that kind of situation and this peacekeeping operation  in Kosovo. Kosovo is a peacekeeping and peace enforcement effort. Our troops are playing a security role there, but they are not now, nor do I expect them to be, involved in combat with organized hostile Serb or other forces in Kosovo. If that changes, of course, we in Congress would likely reconsider the role of these peacekeepers in light of the risks, what is at stake, and make a judgment then. 
   But in the current situation, these peacekeepers deserve a chance to stay and to do their jobs as they have been asked to do, without the prospect of their funding from the United States getting cut off if our European allies do not meet the somewhat arbitrary standards set out in this bill, some of which many in the administration say may not be able to be met in terms of the current timetable. 
   Mr. President, it is with some regret that I oppose this provision to effectively impose a deadline for Kosovo peacekeeping efforts, and to support efforts by Senator LEVIN to strike it from the bill. While I support many of the foreign policy goals which Senators BYRD and WARNER have identified in this debate, I believe the amendment itself would likely put at serious practical risk the peacekeeping operation in Kosovo which, while not without its flaws, is one which I support. 
   I regret that I am not able to support this effort not only because of the respect and admiration I have for these two men, but also because I do share some of their concerns, most especially about ensuring our appropriate and constitutionally-mandated congressional role in decisions regarding war and peace. But while it is clear that we need to intensify the dialogue between the Administration and Congress on the larger questions about the circumstances under which we enter into peacekeeping commitments, and the criteria by which we decide that issue, this set of complex foreign policy questions should not be decided in this way, on this bill, in a way which potentially undercuts our peacekeeping efforts on the ground in Kosovo. 
   I support what I believe are the key underlying goals of the amendment: prompting a comprehensive debate on the Kosovo peacekeeping operation, its successes and failures; ensuring fair burden-sharing by our European allies, including on civilian police; and intensifying executive-congressional consultation on future decisions made regarding peacekeeping and peace enforcement operations in the region. 
   Of course we in Congress must continue to keep a close watch on the situation there, and intervene--forcefully and directly, if necessary, through the power of the purse or otherwise--if we believe the administration is going in the wrong direction. And I know that both Senator WARNER and Senator BYRD have pressed the administration on the burdensharing issue for many months, and have had some real success in helping to ensure a fairer proportion of U.S. to European assistance. 
   The fact is that we have about 5,900 of the approximately 39,000 troops in the region now; overall we are providing, according to the Administration, only about 15 percent of the troops and reconstruction aid for this effort. While it is important to continue to press to make sure the Europeans follow through on their commitments of resources and police personnel, I do not think fifteen percent is too much for us to bear to help our allies keep the peace in this troubled region. International peacekeeping must be a joint effort, with shared burdens, shared responsibilities and shared risks. 
   That is why I think it would be in a way more honest, more responsible, for those who wish to test the question, to simply prompt a debate by calling for a vote up or down on the Kosovo peacekeeping operation. If there are those who want to press that question, that would be a test of true accountability. We could vote on that this week. But I think most of us suspect that if the question were posed that starkly, many who might end up supporting this resolution, with its elaborate formula and framework for a potential withdrawal, would not vote to pull out our troops. They would not want to so grossly and suddenly undercut our troops, our allies, and those in Kosovo, Albania, and elsewhere in the region whom we have labored so mightily to protect in the past two years. 
   On the whole, our peacekeepers, and those of our allies, have done a remarkable job of enforcing, in a difficult and tense environment, an uncertain peace. Their presence has clearly helped to avoid a return to the horrendous violence that we all witnessed in Kosovo, and that NATO fought so hard to stem. Let's not forget that the ethnic cleansing that prompted our presence in the first place has been stopped, and that a return to the fighting has been prevented by the peacekeeping forces on the ground. Given the fragility of the current peace, it seems to me a likely result of our withdrawal would be a withdrawal by our allies, followed by a return to such fighting. 
   I share some of the frustration expressed about the Kosovo operation. While it is clear that some functions of this force could have been handled better, and that all parties involved could strengthen efforts--by the administration, by civilian police on the ground, by the UN bureaucracy, by those nations who have sent sometimes inadequate aid, or who have failed to live up completely and a timely way to their commitments--the peacekeeping forces have done a good job, under harrowing circumstances, and we should not undercut them, directly or indirectly, by passing this amendment. The fact that there has been less long-term progress than had been hoped for toward the development of a 
   multi-ethnic state in Kosovo is not the fault of these peacekeepers. 
   I have a high doctrine of War Powers, and have always insisted on appropriate congressional authorization of the use of troops in situations where they might face hostilities or imminent hostilities. I think that's required by our Constitution, by our system of checks and balances. 
   But I think there is a subtle difference here between that kind of situation of imminent or real hostilities and the current peacekeeping operation in Kosovo. Kosovo is a peacekeeping and peace enforcement effort; our troops are playing a security role there, but they are not now, nor do I expect them to be, involved in combat with organized hostile Serb or other forces in Kosovo. If that changes, of course we in Congress would likely reconsider the role of these peacekeepers in light of the risks, what's at stake, and make a judgment then. 
   But in the current situation, these peacekeepers deserve a chance to stay, and to do their jobs as they've been asked to do, without the prospect of their funding from the U.S. getting cut if our European allies don't meet the somewhat arbitrary standards set out in this bill, some of which the Administration says aren't likely to be met under this particular timetable. 
   Some oppose the Kosovo peacekeeping operation outright, and would simply turn it over completely to the Europeans. That's a legitimate view, but not one I share. We cannot send a signal to our allies that we will help out in difficult and complex situations like this, but only if they bear all the risks of peacekeeping. 
   Others have raised the issue of the U.S. looking irresolute to our allies within NATO, and to Milosevic. Or the concern that Milosevic might, if he knows there's an almost certain date set for our withdrawal, he'll likely instruct his troops to simply wait us out--or worse, instruct his radical Serb allies to foment violence to influence Western opinion, and even future votes in Congress, on whether to keep the peacekeepers there. These are legitimate concerns, but I think a more fundamental question is posed. 
   Will we shoulder our responsibilities, along with our NATO allies, to continue to help bolster and build a stable peace in Kosovo, to give them a chance at reconstruction, or will we start to scale back our effort now, and then pull out down the road, even after all the blood and treasure that's been spent to secure that peace, signaling to our allies and adversaries in the region alike that we're not firmly committed to seeing through the job that we started? I hope not. And I hope that we'll not start down that road by voting for a year of questions and uncertainty about our commitment in Kosovo. 
   That is not to say the administration must not push harder our European allies to accelerate their assistance to the reconstruction effort. It is not to say the President should not intensify his consultations with Congress on his plans and intentions regarding the peacekeeping force. He absolutely must  do those things. But I do not think that this amendment is the way to ensure those results. And so I will vote for Senator LEVIN'S amendment to strike this language from the bill, and I hope my colleagues will join me in voting to support our peacekeeping efforts in Kosovo, and against this provision which, in its current form, could do that effort real harm. 
   Mr. President, again, I have great respect for my colleagues on the other side of this question. I would be pleased to have an up-or-down vote on the peacekeeping operation. I would be pleased to be held accountable. I would love for the Senate to deal with this question right now and vote up or down on the peacekeeping operation. To me, that is checks and balances. I would vote for the peacekeeping operation, and that is why I will support Senator LEVIN's initiative. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me thank my colleague and my neighbor from Wisconsin, Senator FEINGOLD. I have a very strong feeling and belief that this speech, which has been given at 5 o'clock this Thursday afternoon, will end up being one of the more memorable speeches given on the floor of the Senate. I think the speech was eloquent and powerful. It went way beyond political party. I thank my colleague from Wisconsin. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I won't be--I can't be--as eloquent, but I actually thought I would come to the floor and try to basically speak to what I think are some important questions for the Senate. 
   This is, in part, the discussion we had yesterday; and especially with the majority leader not on the floor, I will make sure that what I say, I say in such a way that if he wants to respond later, he can. In any case, I intend to say it at least in the best possible way I can. 
   I know the majority leader today, in a couple of interviews--it has come my way from several journalists--has said that yesterday he sort of believed that I was responsible for this exchange that we had on the floor--in getting it started. I believe he also mentioned Senator DURBIN. 
   I want to say that, actually, if that is the case, I would be proud to accept the blame. I think it is a discussion we needed to have, albeit what I hope is that something positive will come out of it. That is to say--and this is what Senator FEINGOLD was trying to say--I came here to do my very best to represent the people in Minnesota. I think when you are a Senator, and also when you pass amendments or bills, it can have implications for people all across the country. 
   What I have always loved about the Senate in the time I have been here is that individual Senators can matter and can make a difference. We are really much more of an amendment body. I think the Senate is at its best when bills come to the floor and Senators bring amendments out and we start early in the morning and--we don't need to go until midnight; that is not good for families. But we can go until 7 or 8 o'clock at night. 
   We are about the work of democracy. That is what we are doing. We have votes up or down, and we are all held accountable; we are able to come out here and introduce amendments that speak to the concerns and circumstances, in our view, of the people we represent. That is why I came here. 
   Yesterday, on the floor of the Senate, in response to some of what the majority leader said--I will make sure I do not make the response personal--I said I felt that we have had a pattern here--and Senator FEINGOLD has spoken about this--over and over and over again where bills are considered and the majority leader and others make it clear that only certain amendments are acceptable--not very many--for debate. If there is no agreement on the minority side, then the majority leader files cloture and usually doesn't get it. The bill is pulled and no legislation is passed. This has been happening over and over and over again. 
   From my point of view, a point of order challenge for the first time in 16 years, or thereabouts, which prevented Senators from introducing even sense-of-the-Senate resolutions to appropriations bills--the argument that was made was, well, hey, we have to do business and we have to get going. You know what. Every year we have appropriations bills--last year and the year before that and the year before that. Never before--at least in the last 16 or 17 years--has this been done. 
   My view was that all of this added up to an effort to basically run the Senate like the House of Representatives. That is what I have said, and that is what I believe. I have said it many times. I think that is detrimental to the Senate. I think it takes away the vitality that we have and robs us of some of the capacity for debate, for deliberation, for honest differences of opinion, which need to be expressed out here on the floor of the Senate, and for individual Senators to be able to speak to their priorities. 
   Now, some of my colleagues on the other side may want to talk about tax cuts or about this or that and the other. I may want to talk about the poverty of children and the need to have affordable child care and the need to make sure we have food and nutrition programs so children don't go hungry. We all have things about which we care the most. Nobody is better than anybody else. But do you know what. I want the right to be able to do that. What I was trying to say yesterday--and I will say it, given what the majority leader said to several journalists--was I actually didn't intend to be silenced. 
   So I will continue to issue challenges and speak out. I think that Senator DASCHLE spoke probably for every single Democrat yesterday. I think it is going to be important for us to move forward, and I hope we will. Sometimes what happens on the floor of the Senate is that people speak with some indignation because that is what they  feel, and they may feel very strongly. So the words are uttered in that way, and some of the discussion takes place that way. Do you know what? I think there comes a time when that is necessary. 
   Frankly, I think it is important that the minority party makes sure we maintain our rights. It is important that the minority maintains its voice. It is important that Senators have opportunities to bring amendments out here and do their very best to legislate for people back home, to introduce amendments, have debate, to win or to lose, but to be at the work of democracy. I just think that the Senate doesn't do the work of democracy when we basically go through bills that are laid out, and then cloture is filed and the bills are pulled, and that is about it. And we really aren't about doing the work I think we ought to be doing. That is my own view. 
   Again, in responding to some of what has been said today, listen, if the majority leader feels that I am the blame for getting this debate started yesterday, I am proud to accept that. I think we needed to have the debate. But the most important thing is that we all figure out a way we can move forward from it. 
   I will tell you that I feel very strongly that we have to get back to some debate out here on the floor of the Senate. We have to get back to the deliberation. 
   I would be interested in the Senator's response, frankly, if he can help me a moment. 
   To me, the work of democracy is when Senators come out here with amendments. As I said earlier, we should start early in the morning, go to 8 or 9 at night, and have at it. We would have good deliberations and good debate, and we would vote amendments up or down. Senators would be able to raise the kinds of questions they want to raise and speak to the kinds of issues they think are so important to the people they represent; we are all accountable. But it is substantive. It is real. It is about issues, and nobody is gagged; nobody is blocked. That is the Senate and the vitality of the Senate. 
   I wonder what my colleague thinks about that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I wasn't trying to apologize. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will ask my colleague another question. It is interesting that he mentioned Senator GRAMM from Texas because I remember that several years ago, we were in the majority. We were in the office because I know it was July 21. It was my birthday, and we had the cake and candles. Somebody said: Senator GRAMM is out there with an amendment on legal services that you don't agree with. You have to go out there and debate him. 
   I didn't know he was going to bring that amendment up. I had to end the birthday party, get the notes, and run down here. There was a 2- or 3-hour debate on it. 
   But that is what I love about being a Senator. It is not a game. He was serious about what he was doing, and I was serious in opposition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would like to ask the Senator from Wisconsin another question. This has not been brought up. I think the Senator gave a speech that, as I said, will be memorable for many years to come. This is a little bit away from the framework. The Senator can respond in any way, of course, that is appropriate from the Senator's point of view. 
   One of the things that I think in part caused me to raise these questions with the majority leader yesterday was that I was little worried. Back home, people meet with you, and they believe because of the chance of meeting with you that something positive can happen, that it will make a difference in lives, that it will help them. 
   I get worried that if you can't offer amendments and you are shut out, you are not able to respond to people. 
   For example, take agriculture and dairy farmers in Wisconsin and in Minnesota, much less other farmers. For them, time is not mutual. They really believe when I meet with them that I can do something right now about the abysmally low prices, whether it is the livestock producers, or whether it is the corn growers. You meet with people. With what is going on in farm country with crops, people are in such pain. They still come out to meetings because they still believe you are their Senator, and by meeting with you and talking about what is happening to them, somehow since you are their Senator you can do something to help. But I can't do anything to help right now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wonder what the response of the Senator from Wisconsin would be. I even found myself saying to people--I can think of different meetings, but I will stay with agriculture. I want to talk about some of the other issues where I literally sometimes slip into, if you will, I guess, what I call ``Washington language,'' and say to people I don't know if there will be a vehicle. People are thinking: Wait a minute; we are losing our farms. 
   They do not know what you are talking about. They have no health care coverage, and can't there be more support for child care, teachers talk about what will make a difference in the schools--pick your issue. And you are at a meeting with people, you are moved by people, and you want to do something to help. 
   Other Senators might have a very different viewpoint, in which case we can have the debate. I find myself saying I just hope there will be a vehicle. People do not know what you are talking about. What do you mean, there is no vehicle? Don't you have an opportunity as a Senator to try to legislate and to be out there representing people and fighting for people? 
   That is what I am worried about. That is what yesterday was about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I asked the Senator from Wisconsin whether or not he has been in a similar experience. I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The Senator should speak for himself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would say to my colleague from Wisconsin that I have two answers. The first answer is part of what I have been trying to say, which is I am really in a debate with the majority leader. I think other Democrats are with me. I hope some Republicans are. It is not a debate for the sake of debate because what I worry about the most is to go back home all the time and to have people meet with you to talk about their lives and have the hope that you as a Senator can make a difference, and you can't make a difference. If there is this effort basically to silence you and if there is this effort basically to block amendments and block debate, Senator FEINGOLD is right. Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose. But you have to have that opportunity to be out here advocating and legislating and fighting for people. 
   That is important to me. 
   Second, this didn't come up in yesterday's debate. I ask my colleague in the form of a question, part of what is going on I think is whether or not the Senate becomes just a nondecisionmaking body. Whether that is good or bad very much depends on one's view about government. If one thinks there is no positive role that government or public policy can play in the lives of people and in improving the lives of people, it would not bother Members that Senators cannot introduce amendments and that we don't debate these issues. 
   I ask my colleague whether or not he thinks that is in part what is going on. If one believes there is nothing the government can or should do to respond to dairy farmers, family farmers, by way of making health care more affordable, or improving educational opportunities for children, then denying Senators the opportunity to debate and offer amendments and moving forward is not a problem. If one believes there is a role for government to be doing this, I think it is a problem. 
   I ask my colleague whether he thinks there is a philosophical debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Wisconsin. I am a political scientist and taught American politics classes, but I think the Senator from Wisconsin is my teacher. 
   I talked about it from the point of view we ought to be about the business of legislating and deciding, not about the business of not deciding and not moving forward. 
   I think what my colleague from Wisconsin is saying is, but also, Senator WELLSTONE, the other critical role of the Senate is by definition, two Senators from every State, regardless of population of State. It is not straight majority or majoritarian principles. The Senate is there to defend the rights of minorities, sometimes to represent unpopular causes, and sometimes to make sure that if there is a rush to pass a piece of legislation which has cataclysmic consequences in people's lives, such as the bankruptcy bill, there is an opportunity for Senator or Senators to say: Wait a minute; I insist this not move through. I will be out here fighting, even if it is an unpopular cause. I want the public and the country to know. Sometimes there is much to be said for deliberation. Sometimes there is much to be said for the Senate as a deliberative body, and therefore there is much to be said for a Senator's rights or a group of Senators' rights to represent this viewpoint. 
   I thank my colleague from Wisconsin for his comments, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank Chairman HATCH, Senator FEINGOLD and Senator KOHL for their work in passing the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act through the Judiciary Committee today. I am proud to be its sponsor in the Senate. In particular, I would like to commend Rep. Bruce Vento for his efforts on this legislation and his extraordinary courage and selfless devotion to the important cause of the Hmong veterans. 
   I would like to affirm my colleagues' remarks and thank the Lao Veterans of America, the nation's largest Hmong veterans organization, for its leadership in helping to bring long-overdue national recognition to the Hmong and Lao veterans of the U.S. Secret Army, as well as pushing for the passage of this legislation in the House and Senate. Lao Veterans of America is the nation's first non-profit veterans organization representing Hmong and Lao veterans of the U.S. Secret Army. These veterans and their families served with U.S. military and clandestine forces in Laos during the Vietnam War. Starting in 1990, the group established and began maintaining the nation's largest repository of records relating to the Hmong and Lao veterans who served with U.S. clandestine and military forces. 
   Mr. President, the Lao Veterans of America's second largest chapter is headquartered in Minnesota. I have heard from hundreds of Hmong Americans in support of this bill over the years. I want to thank them, as well as all the Hmong people from Minnesota and around the country who made the passage of this bill possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take a moment to thank my colleagues for passing S. 890, the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act. Frankly, this bill is long overdue. 
   As the Senator from Minnesota, I am proud to represent the largest Hmong population in America. There are nearly 70,000 Hmong people living in the twin cities. My experience as a Senator has become so much greater as a result of coming to know the nobel history and rich culture of the Hmong people in Minnesota. I am in awe of their sacrifice for the American people. 
   Hmong soldiers died at ten times the rate of American soldiers in the Vietnam War. As many as 20,000 Hmong fell on the mountains in Laos. Hmong soldiers were paid $3 a month and often lived off of rice alone. Where American pilots were sent home after a year or after their one hundredth mission, Hmong soldiers never stopped fighting. ``Fly till you die'' was what the Hmong soldiers said. And, as adults died, children as young as twelve were called up to take their place. In exchange for their service, the Hmong were given a promise of protection by the United States Government. 
   Yet the promise made on the battlefield was abandoned. When the United States military fled South East Asia, the Hmong Geurillas were left to fight  alone. A trail of 100,000 refugees were left to fend for themselves. Many were slaughtered as they waited for evacuation planes that never came. 
   Because America's war effort in Laos was covert, perhaps the largest covert action in our history, the sacrifices and service of the Hmong and Lao veterans is still largely untold. As a result, many of these brave people are still suffering from poverty, discrimination, and persecution. 
   The legislation we passed today is a tribute to this sacrifice. It is a small but meaningful step in honoring and fulfilling our promise to the Hmong people. This legislation will simply waive the literacy requirement to all Hmong Veterans and their spouses to become citizens of the United States--a nation for which so many of them spilled their blood and a nation that has long ignored their unique struggle. 
   The need for this legislation is acute because the Hmong had no written language until recently, and because so many Hmong children were fighting for America when they should have been in school. 
   I want to thank my colleagues for their support. In particular, I also want to take a moment to thank and honor Congressman BRUCE VENTO. He, more than anyone in the Congress, has dedicated himself to ensure that Hmong and Lao veterans receive the honor and respect that has been so long deserved and too long delayed. I also want to thank Chairman HATCH, for guiding this bill through the Judiciary Committee and Senator RUSS FEINGOLD who, with Senator HERB KOHL, has worked so hard to see that this bill is passed. Mostly, I thank the Hmong people. You gave us your lives and your families. You are American heroes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I wish to thank some of my colleagues I have heard out here on the floor. I had a chance last night to listen. I had to go back home. I have a ruptured disc in my back. I was lying in bed listening to Senator BOXER. I thought she was brilliant. And when Senator KENNEDY speaks on this matter, I think he speaks with great moral authority. I say to Senator BOXER that I use the word ``brilliant'' carefully. It is not to try to get her to like me; we are already good friends. I just think she spoke with a lot of eloquence and a lot of feeling. 
   I am not going to actually go through all of the provisions we have been talking about because people who follow this debate have heard that already. I want this juvenile justice bill out of conference committee, although there are other parts of the bill to which I really object. I think it is unconscionable that it has been blocked. I think these sensible gun control measures must be passed by the Congress--the House and the Senate. 
   Instead, what I want to do is talk about this Million Mom March and how it affected me and how it has affected my wife Sheila. We came back from, actually, Wisconsin where I went to support Tammy Baldwin and came back to D.C. to take part in that march. We did that because we wanted to join in with a lot of mothers from Minnesota. Second of all--actually, I had a discussion with Senator BOXER about this--I thought, this is really historic; I should be there. 
   I don't really know how many mothers were there. I don't know whether it was 750,000 or 650,000, but it was very powerful. I really believe there were two messages to that march. One has been much discussed. The other has been less discussed. The first message was that you had mothers basically saying to the Nation--much less to the Congress--there is too much violence; there are too many of our children being killed; we can do much better as a nation. 
   We are all for doing everything possible on prevention. We are all for making sure the existing laws are enforced. We are all for making sure we figure out how to help children with troubled lives--some of the children who committed these crimes or a murder. But we want our Congress--if it is our Congress--to pass legislation that will make sure some of these children and other citizens who should not have these guns don't get these guns in their hands--make sure we deal with the loopholes, and make sure people with a history of violence don't have these guns. Surely, we can do better. Nobody can ever get it 100-percent right. Nobody can be sure those citizens who should not have access to guns don't get access to guns. Nobody can stand here on the floor of the Senate and say if we pass these measures, we won't have a repeat of a Columbine or what happened in many other schools. 
   But we can certainly do everything that is humanly possible to try to reduce the violence and try to reduce the number of children that are murdered. It is reasonable. 
   I come from a State where Minnesotans love to hunt. They do not want their long guns taken away. They do not want their rifle hunt taken away. This has nothing to do with that. It has nothing to do with the basic constitutional rights. It is not written anywhere in the Constitution that anybody who wants to own a gun--even if they have a history of violence, are convicted of a violent crime, even if they have used guns before--should be allowed to have a gun. There is nothing in the Constitution that says that. 
   That is what this is all about. That is what these amendments are all about. 
   I think the first message on the part of mothers--I do not know. We will see. The proof will be in the pudding. We will see how history writes about this later depending upon the followup of this march. But I see that march as the beginning of a very important citizens lobby in the country. You had a lot of women who came. I know that in Minnesota we have a lot of Democrats; we have a lot of Republicans; and we have a lot of women who really do not care about either party, to tell you the truth. They do not really care. But they care fiercely about this issue. I think they came here with a lot of courage. I think they came here with a lot of hope. That is good. That is all  about representative democracy. They are not afraid to take on powerful special interests. They are not afraid to hold all of us accountable. They are not afraid to speak out for their children and their grandchildren. They are not afraid to work hard, to speak up, to lobby, to write letters, to advocate for sensible legislation that would reduce some of this violence and save lives. They are not afraid to do that. 
   I think there was a lot of determination and a lot of indignation. I say to colleagues that I personally think indignation can be good. I would much rather women, men, and all citizens who believe we ought to do something to reduce this violence, and to get some of these guns out of the hands of children and other people who shouldn't have these guns--I think it is good that there is indignation. I think it is good that these women are saying to Senators and Representatives that we are not going to march here and have this big rally, and when the smoke clears away, you will never hear from us again. That is not going to happen. I think that makes our country work better. That is the second message. 
   I think what happened on Sunday was inspiring. I think the mothers provoked the hopes and aspirations of other women and men in the country that, yes, we can change legislation; yes, ordinary citizens matter; that we have a right as citizens to make demands of the Congress and to be as bold and as courageous as we can be as citizens in a democracy. I think that was a message of this march. That is a wonderful message. That is an empowering message. 
   Finally, there was another message, and if was a different one. The next day we had a panel discussion. There were a number of women crossing all income lines and all racial lines who lost children. I made the comment during this discussion when some of the mothers were speaking that people kept trying to get the mikes closer. But I think one of the reasons their voices were so quiet was because there 
   is so much pain. 
   I pray for our family. We have children and grandchildren. I pray that we never have to ever go through that. I pray no mother, no father, no grandparent, no brother, no sister, no wife, no husband ever, ever has to go through the living hell that these women have gone through having lost a child to this violence. At that discussion I think there was a lot of personal pain and a lot of agony. God knows, I don't know how these women have done it. I really do not. I do not know that I could have done it. They have somehow been able to muster up the courage to try to do everything they can to save the lives of other children. To honor them is the least we can do. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, Mr. President, I think Senator LEVIN is on the floor now. I ask the majority leader this. It is my understanding that this is the first time in 16 years such a point of order has been raised on sense-of-the-Senate resolutions to amendments to appropriations bills. I ask the majority leader why this is the case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, pursuing this a bit further, we always have appropriations bills. We did last year. I know some of my Republican colleagues had sense-of-the-Senate amendments. We always have the business of the Senate before us. I don't think the majority leader answered my question. Why, for the first time in 16 years, has the point of order been raised? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is my last question. Last year, the Senator from North Carolina, Mr. HELMS, who had every right to do so, had a sense-of-the-Senate bill expressing the sense of the Senate that the U.S. Census Bureau has willingly decided not to include marital status on census questionnaires, and so on and so forth. That passed by a 94-0 vote. I think this was on the Transportation appropriations bill. This is the first time in 16 years that this has happened. 
   I think the majority leader wants to run the Senate as the House of Representatives. I think it is a big mistake for this institution to be run that way. I think it is very difficult for us to be out here raising questions that are important to people's lives that we represent in our different States given the continuing challenges of raising these points of order by the majority leader. This is happening over and over again. I think the Senate is losing its capacity to have the discussions, to have debate, and to have its vitality. 
   I don't think I am going to object, but I would like to go on Record in strong opposition to what the majority leader has done. I think it is a terrible precedent for the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am not going to object. I think the reason I will not is I want to have a vote on these two amendments because we have been trying to do it. But I hate this precedent. I am going to try to figure out, along with other colleagues, I hope, a challenge. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. How much time remains? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator KENNEDY and some of my other colleagues on the floor here today to talk about the so-called bankruptcy reform bill. I spoke for about twenty minutes yesterday on the same topic and my intent then is the same as that of my colleagues today: which is to shine a line on this bankruptcy bill, and focus the attention of the Senate on what Congress is poised to do to harshly punish working families overwhelmed by debt. 
   Yesterday I mentioned the Bartlett and Steel article from Time magazine of last week entitled ``Soaked by Congress.'' I commend it to my colleagues' attention. And yesterday I also read some excerpts from that article to give colleagues an idea of what a typical family actually looks like who files for bankruptcy. In all honesty, I think many in the House and Senate were hoodwinked last year by a very clever media campaign on the part of the big banks and the credit card industry. I mean, it shouldn't be too surprising that the bill passed with the overwhelming margin that it did if you assumed that colleagues focused on the media campaign, the ad campaign, the legions of Gucci loafer wearing lobbyist that descended on the Hill. Because, frankly, I don't believe that many of my colleagues who did vote for the bill would have done so had they known then what they should know now, now that there has been some balance to the debate. 
   Now the House and Senate leadership have staff burning the midnight oil trying to finish this bill so that they can stick it in an unrelated conference report. But while they do that, we have 40 million Americans without health insurance who we aren't rushing emergency legislation to safeguard. The Patients' Bill of Rights is MIA in conference for almost a year. We are crawling along--actually not even crawling anymore it appears--on Education--though schools are crumbling and kids can't learn because we aren't investing what we should into their education. I mean these are real emergencies facing millions of Americans. And yet it is so-called bankruptcy reform that the House and Senate are falling all over themselves to pass. This morning I want to focus on the reasons why this bill is being moved at light speed--the false reasons as well as the real reasons. 
   Bankruptcy does not occur in vacuum. We know that in the vast majority of cases it is a drastic step taken by families in desperate financial circumstances and overburdened by debt. The main income earner may have lost his or her job. There may be sudden illness or a terrible accident requiring medical care. Certainly most Americans have faced a time in their lives where they weren't sure where the next mortgage payment or credit card payment was going to come from, but somehow they scrape by month to month. Still, such families are on the edge of a precipice and any new expense--a severely sick child, a car repair bill--could send a family into financial ruin. Despite the current economic expansion there are far too many working families in this situation. That is the true story behind the high number of bankruptcy filings in recent years and I want to make clear to my colleagues that the evidence shows that the very banks and credit card companies who are pushing this bill have a lot to do with why working families are in this predicament today. 
   The bankruptcy system is supposed to allow a person to climb back up after they've hit bottom, to have a ``fresh start.'' There is no point to continue to punish a person and a family once their resources are over matched by debt. The bankruptcy system allows families to regroup, to focus resources on essentials like their home, transportation and meeting the needs of dependents. Sometimes the only way this can occur is to allow the debtor to be forgiven of some debt, and in most cases this is debt that would never be repaid because of the debtor's financial circumstances. In fact, in over 95% of bankruptcy cases creditors receive no distributions from the filer's assets--not because folks are able to beat the system--but because in the vast majority of cases the debtor simply has no assets left. 
   The sponsors of this measure and the megabanks and credit card companies behind this bill don't like to focus on those situations. They paint a picture of profligate abuse of the bankruptcy system by irresponsible debtors who could pay their debt but simply choose not to. Such people do take advantage of the system, there is no question. But this bill casts a wider net and catches more than just the bankruptcy ``abusers.'' 
   ``Soaked by Congress'' does an excellent job of setting the record straight. It notes that a study last year by the American Bankruptcy Institute found that only 3 percent of debtors who file under Chapter 7--where debtors liquidate assets to repay some debt while the rest of the debtor's unsecured debt is forgiven--would actually have been able to pay more of their debt than they are required to under Chapter 7. Even the U.S. Justice Department found that the number of abusive claims was somewhere between 3 percent and 13 percent. This means that the number of people filing abusive bankruptcy claims is astonishingly low. But this legislation seeks to channel many more debtors into chapter 13 bankruptcy--where the debtor enters a 3-5 year repayment plan and very little debt is forgiven. Yet in the pursuit of the few, this bill imposes onerous conditions, and ridiculous standards on all bankrupts alike. Additionally, under current law, 67 percent of the debtors in chapter 13 fail to complete their repayment plan often because they did not get enough relief from loans, and because economic difficulties continued. So this legislation would take individuals, the majority of whom desperately need a true ``fresh start'', and force them into a bankruptcy process which 2/3 of debtors already fail to complete successfully. And my colleagues call this reform? 
   Furthermore, the consumer credit industry would like this to be a debate about financial responsibility. But  what is apparently not obvious to many of my colleagues is that debt involves both a borrower and a lender. Yes, a person should be responsible for repaying money lent to them on fair terms. But is it not in the lender's interest to not over lend? Should not the banks, and the credit card companies, and the retailers bear some responsibility for the so-called bankruptcy crisis? 
   As high cost debt, credit cards, retail charge cards, and financing plans for consumer goods have skyrocketed in recent years, so have the number of bankruptcy filings. As the consumer credit industry has begun to aggressively court the poor and the vulnerable, bankruptcies have risen. Credit card companies brazenly dangle literally billions of card offers to high debt families every year. They encourage card holders to make low payments toward their card balances, guaranteeing that a few hundred dollars in clothing or food will take years to pay off. The lengths that companies go to keep their customers in debt is ridiculous. 
   So any thinking person would ask at this point. Why is the House and Senate calling out the stops to pass this bill? What's driving this bill? Well as ``Soaked by Congress'' notes, the big banks spent $5 million last year specifically on bankruptcy lobbyists and another $50 million on firms that lobbied on bankruptcy as well as other matters. I wonder how much money working families overburdened with medical bills paid to influence Congress last year? Is that why we weren't listening? 
   That makes this a reform issue, a basic question of good government. Regardless of how you feel about the bill, this is terrible legislating. I don't think that the 100 members of the Senate or the 435 members of the House came to Congress to be dictated to by secret committees formed by the leadership. This week we are debating education in the Senate. Can you imagine trying to explain to a 9th grade civics class what the House and Senate leadership are trying to do? They would learn how minority rights are protected in the Senate, about how there are regular procedures--high bars--for the majority to overcome to force something to passage over the objections of a determined minority. All of that goes out the window for the 4th branch of government--the conference committee. 
   We don't have time for debate, we don't have time for legislative battles in this Congress. We don't have time for the hallowed traditions of the Senate. Just form a secret committee and stick in an unrelated conference report in the dead of night. What is so essential about this bill that the leadership must make such a mockery of the legislative process? 
   The most expedient means is the best means according to this logic. But at what cost? Only a handful of power brokers are at the table. Working families aren't represented. Seniors aren't at that table. Minorities aren't in the loop. Women and children, and single parent families weren't invited. 
   So I would say to my colleagues in closing, folks can make the claim that big money doesn't buy results in Congress but they won't use this bill as the poster boy for that argument. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to go to their leadership. It isn't too late to ask them to reconsider this course. 
   We come to the floor today as Senators to shine a light on the bankruptcy bill. I spoke about this bill for some 20 or 30 minutes yesterday. I thank two fine journalists, Bartlett and Steele, for their fine work, ``Soaked by Congress.'' I sent this article out to every Senator. I hope my colleagues will read this article. It is about how the House and Senate were hoodwinked last year by a clever media campaign on the part of big banks and the credit card industry. 
   I point out not to my colleagues but, frankly, to people in the country that some of the House and Senate leadership, with the majority party taking the lead, have been burning the midnight oil trying to finish this bankruptcy bill so they can stick it into an unrelated conference report. While they do that, we have 40 million people who don't have any health insurance at all. That is not an emergency? While they do that, the patient protection bill of rights is barely moving at all. It may be crawling; it may not even be crawling. While they do that, we don't pass any kind of education measure. While they do that, there is no response to 700,000-plus mothers--Sheila and I were proud to join them this past Sunday--who came to Washington, DC. They said: We are a citizens' lobby. We will take on special interests. We will be here for our children. We will be here to reduce violence. We will be here for sensible gun control. But there has been no response to that. That is not considered to be an emergency? 
   But boy, oh boy, when it comes to this bankruptcy bill, some of my colleagues, some of the leadership on the other side, can't wait to stick this into an unrelated conference report. I think there is a reason for that. In the piece that Bartlett and Steele wrote called ``Soaked by Congress,'' they do an excellent job of getting the record straight. As opposed to the media campaign by these banks and credit card companies about all of this abuse, it turns out that the American Bankruptcy Institute found only 3 percent of debtors under chapter 7 could have done any better. 
   Now, all in the name of a few people who abuse this system, we have families my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, talked about, with 40 percent of them in bankruptcy because of medical bills, and the vast majority of the remaining are because someone lost their job or because there has been a divorce and now they are a single parent. 
   What in the world is going on here? In this piece, ``Soaked by Congress,'' Barlett and Steele point out that big banks spent $5 million last year specifically on bankruptcy lobbyists and another $50 million on firms that lobbied on bankruptcy as well as other matters. 
   I say to my colleague Senator FEINGOLD, and my colleague Senator HARKIN, and I would say it to my colleague Senator KENNEDY if he were on the floor, this is the ultimate reform issue. We are talking about people, mainly women, mainly senior citizens, mainly working-income, maybe low-income people, people without much clout who are completely rolled by this bill. 
   Now we find out all about the pension grab. Now we find out about all sorts of other provisions that are egregious, that I do not have time to summarize, that I summarized yesterday. Now we find out that, given where this bill is going in conference, it is going to be even more harsh toward the most vulnerable citizens in this country. But that will not see the light of day; it will get tucked into an unrelated conference report. 
   I say to my colleagues, we do intend to speak out on this issue. I hope the President will make it clear he will veto this bill. It is too harsh, there are too many egregious provisions, and right now we are not conducting our business the way we ought to as the Senate. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have with me an investigative article from the May 15, 2000 issue of Time magazine, the title of which is ``Soaked by Congress, Lavished with campaign cash, lawmakers are `reforming' bankruptcy--punishing the downtrodden to catch a few cheats,'' by Donald L. Barlett and James B. Steele, who are well known for their investigative journalism--some of the best investigative journalism in the country. 
   Mr. President, I thank these two journalists for the work they have done over the years. I used to assign their books to classes, and I think it is very good investigative journalism. 
   Let me read from one part of this lengthy article. I sent a copy of this out to colleagues. I commend this piece to all of them. 
   Under the legislation before Congress, new means tests would force more borrowers into Chapter 13--leading to still more failures--and would eliminate bankruptcy as an option for others. For this second group, life will be especially bleak. Listen to their future as described by Brady Williamson, who teaches constitutional law at the University of Wisconsin in Madison and was chairman of the former National Bankruptcy Review Commission, appointed by Congress in 1995: ``A family without access to the bankruptcy system is subject to garnishment proceedings, to multiple collection actions, to repossession of personal property and to mortgage foreclosure. There is virtually no way to save their home and, for a family that does not own a home, no way to ever qualify to buy one.'' The wage earner will be ``faced with what is essentially a life term in debtor's prison.'' 
   Brady Williamson, who teaches constitutional law at the University of Wisconsin, is joined by law professors all across the country in their strong critique in, I would really say, condemnation of this bankruptcy bill. Again, he was the chairman of the former National Bankruptcy Review Commission, which was appointed in 1995. 
   The reason I mention this is that I want to take a few minutes to talk about this bill. 
   When there was an effort to separate this bankruptcy bill out from minimum wage legislation, I opposed it. I opposed the unanimous consent agreement. Senator FEINGOLD was out here on the floor with me. We did this because we believe this piece of legislation deserves more scrutiny, albeit it passed by a big margin in the Senate. But I am telling you that many colleagues, I think, had no idea of some of the provisions that were in this legislation--some really egregious provisions. We have learned something about what many of us call the pension raid, which basically for the first time would enable these creditors, as a condition for making the loan, to call upon borrowers to say, look, you can also put a lien on my pension. That has never been done before. 
   But there are other egregious provisions as well. I again point out that last week Time magazine published this investigative article entitled ``Soaked by Congress,'' written by Donald Barlett and James Steele. 
   I think this is a true picture of who files for bankruptcy in America. You will find a far different profile of who the people are than from the skewed version that was used to justify this ``bankruptcy reform bill'' passed by the House and the Senate. 
   I would like to give my colleagues an example of the kind of families we are talking about--working families, hard-pressed families, crushed by debt, people who need a fresh start. 
   Tomorrow, Senator KENNEDY will be coming with other Senators --I will join them--in speaking about this bill as well. Since I came to this floor and I objected to any unanimous consent agreement to separate this bankruptcy bill, passing it and moving it forward, and since I have done everything I know how as a Senator to stop this bill, I want to discuss why. 
   First, I will talk about this legislation from the perspective of ordinary people, people who don't have a lot of money--not the big banks and not the big credit card companies that have been running the show on this legislation. 
   I will read the beginning of this article by Bartlett and Steele:  
   Congress is about to make life a lot tougher--and and more expensive--for people like the Trapp family of Plantation, Fla. As if their life isn't hard enough already. Eight-year-old Annelise, the oldest of the three Trapp children, is a bright, spunky, dark-haired wisp who suffers from a degenerative muscular condition. She lives in a wheel-chair or bed, is tied to a respirator at least eight hours a day, eats mostly through a tube and requires round-the-clock nursing care. Doctors have implanted steel rods in her back to stem the curvature of her spine. 
   Her parents, Charles and Lisa, are staring at a medical bill for $106,373 from Miami Children's Hospital. then there are the credit-card debts. The $10,310 they owe Bank One. The $5,537 they owe Chase Manhattan Bank. The $8,222 they owe MBNA America. The $4,925 they owe on their Citibank Preferred Visa card. 
   The $6,838 they owe on their Discover card. The $6,458 they owe on their MasterCard. ``People don't understand, unless they have a medically needy child, these kinds of circumstances,'' says Charles Trapp, 42, a mail carrier.  
   Most of the people who file for bankruptcy under chapter 7 for a new start, about 40 percent-plus, are people who have been put under because of a medical bill. The studies don't talk about a lot of abuse. They mention 3, 4 or 5 percent of the people at most abusing this system. Most of the people in the country who do have to start over find themselves in these awful situations because there has been a divorce and now there is a single parent or because people have lost their jobs or because people face catastrophic medical bills. We are going to punish these families? 
   The figures on the amount of money pouring in, let me be clear, are not on one to one. I am not going to stand here and say every single Senator who disagrees with me on this disagrees with me because they received a lot of money from big credit card companies. Then someone can turn around, and I know the presiding Chair will agree, and say every position you take is based on money you have received. That is simply an analysis that should be unacceptable. I will not do that. It is not fair to people I serve with and I don't believe it. 
   However, from an institutional view of who has power and who doesn't have power in America, we see an industry that has a tremendous amount of clout, that certainly contributes a lot of money--Republicans and Democrats alike--that has the lobbyists, is certainly well connected and, of course, the people whom we are talking about, such as the Trapp family, don't have the same kind of connections. 
   We are, I think, about to do something very egregious to these families. Yesterday was Mother's Day--Sheila and I marched in the Million Mom March and were proud to do so--so I'd like to read from a letter signed by 70 scholars at our Nation's law schools who are opposed to this legislation about how this bill will affect mothers. They write directly to this issue of how low-income, women-headed households will be devastated by this bankruptcy bill. 
   As the heads of the economically most vulnerable families, they have a special stake in the pending legislation. Women heads of households are now the largest demographic group in bankruptcy, and according to the credit industry's own data, they are the poorest. The provisions in this bill, particularly the provisions that apply without regard to income, will fall hardest on them. A single mother with dependent children who is hopelessly insolvent and whose income is far below the national median income still would have her bankruptcy case dismissed if she does not present copies of income tax returns for the past three years--even if those returns are in the possession of her ex-husband. A single mother who hoped to work through a chapter 13 payment plan would be forced to pay every penny of the entire debt owed on almost worthless items of collateral, such as used furniture or children's clothes, even if it meant that successful completion of a repayment plan was impossible. 
   I don't think the choices in this debate could be stated any more starkly. The core question is, Are we on the side of these big credit companies and these banks or are we on the side of too many women in this country struggling to support their families? 
   I will mention a few other provisions in this legislation that are punitive. I already mentioned the pension grab. People didn't even seem to know about that provision. That is being reworked. Good. I want to see the bill improved, although a wise proverb comes to mind: Never put good stitching in a rock cloth. 
   I think this bill is fundamentally flawed--not the Senators who support  the bill, the bill. Section 102 of this bill removes the ability of a debtor to seek sanctions against a creditor who brought coercive, frivolous claims against the debtor, as long as the claim in question is less than $1,000. If someone has a loan for less than $1,000, a creditor can intimidate and threaten legal action, even if he doesn't intend to take legal action with impunity. 
   Section 105 imposes mandatory credit counseling on debtors before they can seek bankruptcy relief at the debtors' expense--as if the debtors have the money for this. This is regardless of whether the bankruptcy would be the result of simple overspending or the result of unavoidable expenses such as catastrophic medical expense. There is no waiver of this requirement. People can end up being evicted. 
   Section 311 ends the practice of stopping eviction proceedings against tenants who are behind on rent who file for bankruptcy. This is critical for tenants under current law. 
   I could go on and on. 
   I speak from the Senate floor to the people in the country. This is a reform issue. I talked about who has the clout in America and who doesn't. At one time, there was a bill that came to the floor of the Senate, a much better bill, that I voted against. 
   It was a 99-1 vote. I thought that bill was too harsh and too punitive, but most of my colleagues disagreed. People had done good work on it. 
   Now this bill that passed the United States, it is as Barlett and Steele pointed out in their very important piece, it is completely one sided. There is no call for accountability or responsibility on the part of the creditor, credit card companies. There are harsh provisions, many of which--most of which--all of which, frankly, disproportionately affect low-income people, moderate-income people, women, working families, you name it, based upon the assumption that most people who file for bankruptcy abuse the system--which is not true. Most people are put under because of a medical bill or they have been out of work or because there is a divorce. This bill is just a carbon copy of what this credit card industry wants. 
   I objected to the unanimous consent agreement to try to move this bill, first to decouple it from the minimum wage and then to try basically to move it through. I do not want to. I want to try to stop this piece of legislation. Because different Senators are entitled to their own viewpoint, I will be pleased, as we get a chance to really look at the provisions of this legislation carefully, as in the case of this Barlett and Steele piece, and if this bill comes back before the Senate and we have the debate, I will be willing to agree to time limits on amendments--you name it. But we need to have a thorough debate on this bill. I am not going to let it go through by unanimous consent or continue in any way, shape, or form. 
   The effort that is underway is to take this legislation and put it into an unrelated bill; the e-signatures bill is the latest, the effort to take this bankruptcy--quote, reform--bill and put it into the conference committee on e-signature legislation. It has nothing to do with e-signature legislation. Then the effort is to bring the conference report back to the Senate where it cannot be amended and can be only voted up or down. 
   It is clever enough, but the truth of the matter is, again, my goal in life is to have people interested in politics, public affairs. Even if they vote Republican, I am all for them if they are interested in public affairs. That is my view. I just don't want people opting out and being disillusioned and becoming cynical because then I think our country suffers, I think representative democracy suffers. That is what I believe in more than anything else. 
   This is a reform issue. People hate this. They hate the way this process works, where you can take a bill and now put it into a completely unrelated piece of legislation, outside the scope of the conference committee, tuck it in, do it at midnight, do it late at night, do it when people cannot see it, do it in whatever way you can, in the most private way possible, and then just try to push it through. It is a neat parliamentary technique, it is a neat trick through this process, this legislative process. But it is an outrage. 
   I do not think Senators should support this. I certainly am going to challenge this question on the scope of conference. I think we had a ruling on this which was an unfortunate ruling. We will have to go back through that. There are other Senators, Senator HARKIN, Senator FEINGOLD, Senator KENNEDY--a number of others--just to mention a few who I think feel very strongly about this. The more Senators really know what is in this piece of legislation, the more Senators who read this investigative report in Time magazine, the more Senators are going to be worried about this. They are going to be worried about this legislation going through in this form. 
   There are good Senators who have worked on this legislation, some I consider to be some of the best. But this legislation is 
   fundamentally flawed. I speak about it today. I am going to continue to do everything I can to stop it. I want people in the country to know what the effort is right now, which is to put this piece of legislation into an unrelated conference report. 
   I want to make it clear on the floor of the Senate that everything I know how to do as a Senator, to insist that this bill goes back in the regular order and comes back through this legislative process--which will give us an opportunity to look at other provisions we did not know were in this bill, such as the pension grab amendment--is what I insist on. I think other Senators feel the same way. 
   I do not believe Senators, Democrats or Republicans alike, whether they agree or disagree on this particular piece of legislation--I do not think they should accept the proposition we can just put it into an unrelated conference report. We are heading nowhere good if we start doing that with different pieces of legislation. We are heading nowhere good as a legislative body. It is the wrong way to legislate. It is the wrong way to conduct our business. 
   Then the question is, PAUL, do you have a right to just come out here and object to a unanimous consent agreement? 
   Yes, I do. We had a minimum wage and we had a bankruptcy bill tied together, and there were tax cuts included with minimum wage provisions. But tax measures need to originate in the House of Representatives under the Constitution and the Senate leadership knows that. If that mistake was made--to unconstitutionally add the tax cuts--and I oppose this bill and, by our own rules, it requires unanimous consent to correct the mistake, of course I have a right to object, especially if I think this is an egregious piece of legislation which hits hard at the most vulnerable, low-income citizens in the United States of America. Of course I have the right to do that. 
   I say to the majority leader, if he wants to bring this bill back on the floor, let's have at it. We will even have some time agreements on some amendments. But we will have a thorough debate on this, and I will have a chance to point out many egregious provisions in this legislation in a way we were not able to last time. Then we will see where we go. 
   But if this gets put into a conference committee--and I hope there is enough pressure from other Senators and I hope there is enough pressure from the public that this does not happen. That is the best outcome. I hope the journalists will write about this piece of legislation and will write about what could very well happen here because I think it is indicative of what does not work well here in the legislative process. 
   If this gets folded into a conference report, I have no doubt a number of Senators--we will do everything we can to hold it up in every way possible. But my hope is we do this the right way and not the wrong way. The right way is, let's have a little bit more of a focus and a little more spotlight on this piece of legislation. 
   To reiterate, I wanted to take just a few minutes today to talk about the so-called bankruptcy ``reform'' bill which some Members of this body are trying to force down the throat of working families. As I hope my colleagues are aware, as I speak here today this punitive legislation is being negotiated by a small group of staff working for a handful of members in a secret ``shadow'' conference. Their plan is to attach this legislation to an unrelated conference report and pass the bill with minimal public scrutiny. 
   When you really look at what's in this bill, and what's driving this bill,  it's really not surprising that some of my colleagues have been trying to do this behind closed doors. But recently, there has been an increasing drum beat of outrage and attention from outside Congress both on the bill itself and the desperate tactics being used to pass it. As I said, last week Time magazine published an investigative article about the bill, entitled ``Soaked by Congress,'' The article, written by reporters Dan Bartlett and Jim Steele, is a detailed look at the true picture of who files for bankruptcy in America. You will find it far different from the skewed version that was used to justify the bankruptcy ``reform'' bill passed by the House and Senate. 
   Last week I sent a dear colleague around with a copy of the article. I hope all my colleagues saw it. Tomorrow I believe a group of Senators will speak in the morning about this article, but I'd like to talk about it this afternoon for just a few minutes in the hope that some of you will take another look at this bill, take another look at what it will do to working families, folks crushed by debt, folks who need a fresh start. I want my colleagues to look at this bill from the perspective of ordinary folks--not the big banks and credit card companies. 
   I'd like to read the beginning of the article, it begins:  
   Congress is about to make life a lot tougher--and more expensive--for people like the Trapp family of Plantation, Fla. As if their life isn't hard enough already. Eight-year-old Annelise, the oldest of the three Trapp children, is a bright, spunky, dark-haired wisp who suffers from a degenerative muscular condition. She lives in a wheelchair or bed, is tied to a respirator at least eight hours a day, eats mostly through a tube and requires round-the-clock nursing care. Doctors have implanted steel rods in her back to stem the curvature of her spine. 
   Her parents, Charles and Lisa, are staring at a medical bill for $106,373 from Miami Children's Hospital. Then there are the credit-card debts. The $10,310 they owe Bank One. The $5,537 they owe Chase Manhattan Bank. The $8,222 they owe MBNA America. The $4,925 they owe on their Citibank Preferred Visa card. The $6,838 they owe on their Discover card. The $6,458 they owe on their MasterCard. ``People don't understand, unless they have a medically needy child, these kinds of circumstances,'' says Charles Trapp, 42, a mail carrier.  
   Now I ask my colleagues, is there one thing in this bill that would have helped this family head off bankruptcy? Absolutely not, this bill would simply make it harder for them to get the relief they needed to take care of themselves and their daughter. Why aren't we talking about what could have kept this family out of bankruptcy? What does this bill do to help a woman or man who wants to educate themselves so they can earn a better living for their family? What does this bill do to keep ordinary folks from being overwhelmed by medical expenses? What does this bill do to promote economic stability for working families? Shouldn't the goal be keeping families out of circumstances where they can't pay their debts instead of punishing them once it's too late? I believe if my colleagues really wanted to reduce the number of bankruptcies they would focus more on providing a helping hand up rather than removing the safety net. If they really wanted to tackle bankruptcy, they would take on the credit card companies and their abusive tactics. 
   Yesterday was Mother's Day Mr. President, I would like to read from a letter, signed by approximately 70 scholars at our nation's law schools, who are opposed to this legislation. They write directly to this issue of how low income women headed households will be devastated by this legislation:  
   As the heads of the economically most vulnerable families, they have a special stake in the pending legislation. Women heads of households are now the largest demographic group in bankruptcy, and according to the credit industry's own data, they are the poorest. The provisions in this bill, particularly the provisions that apply without regard to income, will fall hardest on them. A single mother with dependent children who is hopelessly insolvent and whose income is far below the national median income still would have her bankruptcy case dismissed if she does not present copies of income tax returns for the past three years--even if those returns are in the possession of her ex-husband. A single mother who hoped to work through a chapter 13 payment plan would be forced to pay every penny of the entire debt owed on almost worthless items of collateral, such as used furniture or children's clothes, even if it meant that successful completion of a repayment plan was impossible.  
   I don't think the choices in this debate can be made any more stated any more starkly. The core question is this: Will colleagues be on the side of these women, struggling to raise their families? Or do they see these women as the banks and credit card companies do: just an economic opportunity ripe for exploitation? 
   A constituent from Crystal, Minnesota wrote to my office last July to tell me about her experience with bankruptcy. Her life was very much like any of ours until an injury forced her to leave the financial security of her factory job. She worked multiple minimum wage jobs for several years as her marriage fell apart and her daughter began a descent into deep clinical depression. In the meantime, she enrolled in computer school so that she could pursue a career that would give her and her daughter a stable income. She purchased a computer on credit so she could spend more time working at home. In time, the payments on the computer, her mortgage and her daughter's medical bills became too much, and she fell behind on debt payments. When creditors approached her, she tried to work out a repayment schedule that she could meet. Some were willing to do so. However, she says in her letter:  
   What I want you to know specifically is that this one credit card company would not offer any reductions in the interest rate, demanded over one quarter of my entire monthly income, did not care if I could not meet my payments for the most basic requirements of human existence, suggested that I use a food shelf, and they refused to acknowledge that my child was suicidal and that their harassing phone calls to my house nearly caused her to overdose on the only non-prescription pain relievers that I could have for myself.  
   So she filed for bankruptcy. She has begun to rebuild her life and she ended her letter by saying:  
   Please to not vote for Senate Bill 625 or any other bill that makes bankruptcy harder for people who find themselves caught in the unforeseen predicaments of life for which they have no control. It is not fair to pass a bill that helps the credit card companies by hurting people like me without forcing them to look at what they are doing, and how they respond. They have many options that could be used without creating the emotional trauma that forces hard working people to choose the relief of bankruptcy.  
   What the Bartlett and Steele article makes very clear is that these stories are typical in our bankruptcy courts today. And what does this bill do to these folks? It makes it more difficult to file, harder to get a fresh start, allows them to discharge less debt. Forces them to pay more in attorney's fees or maybe make an attorney cost prohibitive--but not for the big banks. It forces families into Chapter 13 which 2/3 which of all debtors currently fail to complete because of economic circumstances. This legislation allows them to be victimized by coercive debt collectors and abolishes critical tenant protections. 
   This is reform? 
   Let me be clear: The bankruptcy bills passed by House and Senate are ill-conceived, unjust, and imbalanced. They impose harsh penalties on families who file for bankruptcy in good faith as a last resort, and address a ``crisis'' that is self-correcting. They reward the predatory and reckless lending by banks and credit card companies which fed the crisis in the first place, and it does nothing to actually prevent bankruptcy by promoting economic security in working families. 
   Here are just a few of the punitive provisions in the Senate passed bankruptcy bill: 
   No. 1. Section 102 of the bill would remove the ability to a debtor to seek sanctions against a creditor who brought coercive, frivolous claims against a debtor--as long as the claim in question is less than $1000. So in other words, as long as the loan was for less than $1000, a creditor may intimidate the borrower or threaten legal action it doesn't intend to take (all illegal under current law). 
   No. 2. Section 105 imposes mandatory credit counseling on debtors before the can seek bankruptcy relief--at the debtors expense. This is regardless of whether the bankruptcy would be the result of simple overspending or something unavoidable like sudden medical expenses. There is no waiver of this requirement if the debtor needs to make an emergency bankruptcy filing to stave off eviction or utility shutoff.  
   No. 3. Section 311 will end the practice under current law of stopping eviction proceedings against tenants who are behind on rent who file for bankruptcy. This is a critical right of tenants under current law. 
   No. 4. Section 312 will make a person ineligible to file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy if he or she has successfully emerged from bankruptcy within the past 5 years--even if it was a successful chapter 13 reorganization where the debtor paid off all their creditors. 
   No. 5. The bill's new reporting, filing and paperwork requirements will make bankruptcy process more onerous than ever before--expensive legal expertise will be more necessary, a burden which low and moderate income families with high debt loads can ill afford. But several sections of the bill create a variety of disincentives for attorneys to represent consumers in bankruptcy. The results of these provisions will be that some attorneys will leave the practice of consumer bankruptcy, and others will have to raise their fees to account for the increased expenses and risks involved. This in turn will lead to more consumers being unable to afford an attorney and either obtaining no relief or falling prey to nonattorney petition preparers who provide services which are usually incompetent and often fraudulent. 
   No. 6. The means test to determine which debtors can file Chapter 7 bankruptcy--as opposed to Chapter 13--is inflexible and arbitrary. It is based on IRS standards not drafted for bankruptcy purposes that do not take into account individual family needs for expenses like transportation, food and rent. It disadvantages renters and individuals who rely on public transportation and benefits higher income individuals with more property and debt. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I also want to very briefly mention another matter since I have the floor. I think the Senate is going to be united. This I hope will be less of a battle than on the horrible bankruptcy bill, credit card company bill, big banker bill. This is the week where we honor law enforcement. I said it last week. I will say it one more time. I say it to the Presiding Officer. I say it to every Senator. 
   You should, if you get a chance, talk to some of the Capitol Hill police officers at the different stations here on the Senate side. You will be really troubled by how demoralized they feel and also how angry they are. I have never seen anything like this, and I have been here 9 1/2 years. I have never seen anything like this. 
   Sheila and I are pretty good friends socially and in other ways with some of the police officers. I am sure some of the Senators are. They are just livid. In July, 2 years ago, we lost two fine officers, and after all the concern that was professed, they cannot believe, in light of that and in light of the fact that we do not have two officers on every post where we need two officers just for security reasons for the public, for us--and I would argue just as important for them--that not only are we not living up to that commitment and doing what we need to do--the Sergeant at Arms on the Senate side, Jim Ziglar, has been terrific on this and Senator BENNETT, the Republican chair of the appropriations legislative subcommittee; his subcommittee has been terrific on this--these police officers cannot believe what the House of Representatives has done. 
   It is unbelievable. What the House of Representatives has done is to call for fairly dramatic--I don't have the figures. I don't know if the figures are so important. They are calling for dramatic cuts in the budget so we will have hundreds fewer, 400 fewer, police officers. 
   I will say to some of the Representatives on the House side, and in particular I am going to say it to the Republicans because on this one there seems to be a pretty major party split where the Democrats have expressed a lot of indignation, where Congressman HOYER and Congressman OBEY spoke up rather strongly about this, in all due respect, do we need to wait for this to happen again where we only have two police officers at the memorial post over the weekend, with long lines of people, and one person shows up who is deranged, and those two officers cannot possibly handle that situation when there are all sorts of other people coming through the line, and you have to check baggage and check what people have and you have to be talking to people and keep your eye on so many different people, and it cannot therefore be prevented or avoided, and we lose more? What are you waiting for? 
   It is absolutely outrageous. I say to the police union, the officers' union, which is a fine union, whatever the union decides to do is what the union decides to do, but I would not blame this union if the police officers do not express clearly their indignation. 
   I cannot believe this was done. As I said last week, it is one of the most unconscionable, one of the worst things that has been done in the Congress since I have been here. I really believe that. 
   I say to Senators, when this appropriations bill comes to the floor, I know Senator REID, who is a former Capitol Police officer, and I know I will be out here and others will be, too, with an amendment that will get the funding up. All of us will agree, Republicans and Democrats, that we are in good shape on the Senate side, and I am proud of that. 
   I say to the Chair, what I would rather not see is two different operations where on the Senate side we have the funding and do what we need to do to make sure these officers are given the resources for their own security, much less the security of the public, and then on the House side, they have a completely different situation. 
   I wanted to bring this to the attention of my colleagues because we are going to have a very strong showing on the Senate side. I do not believe it is posturing just to show one is on the side of the police officers. People feel strongly about it in the Senate. 
   We went through far less than the families of Agent Gibson and Officer Chestnut. We went through a living hell here. We do not want it to happen again. We do not know whether we can prevent it from happening again, but we certainly ought to do everything we can. Cutting 400 police officers is not doing everything we can. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it is interesting the Senator from Kansas is in the chair because I know we are in agreement on this, but I at least want to make the appeal to my colleagues that, for my own part, I believe it is good that in our budget resolution we made allowance for additional funding for help and assistance to farmers. It was somewhere close to $7 billion. 
   My hope is we will not do this in the process of an emergency appropriations bill; that we will give care to how we allocate this money, how we get assistance out to farmers. My fear is--and maybe it will be a good arrangement--that if we double AMTA payments and put it into the conference report to accompany the crop insurance bill, we will have lost our opportunity to have hearings in the Ag Committee and have some focus, some substantive discussion, some careful discussion about how we can make sure we target the assistance to those producers that need it the most. 
   I voted for AMTA payments. I am not intellectually arrogant. I figured, what help we could get the people, get it. I had an uncomfortable feeling that some of the landowners who were not even farmers and some of the largest operators least in need were getting more than they needed. The flip side was the people who needed help the most were not getting it. I do not want an inverse relationship of assistance to need. Some, regarding the AMTA payments, suggest that is what is happening. 
   At a minimum, I say to my colleagues, we should, between now and the end of June--we have time--have some hearings in the Ag Committee. We should have some careful discussion and deliberation about how we get this assistance out to family farmers. It should be more targeted than the AMTA payments have been. I do not believe it is appropriate, again, to deal with such an important issue and such an important question by putting it into another conference report, this particular one being on crop insurance. 
   When we went through the budget process and allocated this money, we were making a statement that we did  not want to be forced into a situation of one more time getting emergency funding out there without any deliberation as to how. I thought this meant we were, on the part of the authorization committee, Senator LUGAR's committee, going to have hearings and an opportunity for Senators and people from the countryside to talk about the best way to get this assistance out to the countryside to help the people most in need. 
   It looks to me, again, that we may be making an end run around that process, and that is a mistake. I speak out for the hearings. I speak out for deliberations. I speak out for doing something about the price crisis other than every year just getting money out to people. Most of the producers in the country would far rather get a decent price. That is a whole other discussion and debate which I hope we will have. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I was going to speak for about 15 minutes, but if my colleague had expected to speak as one of the managers, I don't want to precede him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to follow Senator GRASSLEY and Senator MOYNIHAN for a period of up to 15 minutes on the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from California follow me. She has a very lengthy statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I may take 5 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Hill just came out today, and the headline is ``Capitol Police face loss of 400 in 2001 budget cut.''  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I now turn my attention to this bill. I thank both the Senator from Iowa and the Senator from New York, two exceptional Senators. 
   I am going to divide my remarks into two parts. We have some other Senators, Senators FEINGOLD and FEINSTEIN, who are going to talk at great length about what happened in the conference committee. I am going to speak to that briefly. I shall not take a lot of time. But I say to both Senators that I will be pleased to come back later on this afternoon, if you need me, because I think we need to put a focus on what happened. 
   I am in some disagreement with both my colleagues for, I hope, substantive reasons, which I will go into in a moment on the overall bill. It is not because of either one of the Senators on the floor managing this bill. But we had an amendment--Feinstein-Feingold, Feingold-Feinstein; I don't know the order. It doesn't matter; they are together--regarding the HIV/AIDS drugs in Africa. We will go into the specifics of the purpose of this amendment in a moment. But the purpose was to figure out a way that these countries could afford the combination of drugs that could help treat this illness so people wouldn't die. 
   I strongly support the amendment my colleagues introduced. The amendment was accepted by the bill's managers, Senators ROTH and MOYNIHAN. It was simple. It basically prohibited the U.S. Government--history is not very inspiring, frankly--or any agent of the U.S. Government from pressuring African countries to revoke or change laws aimed at increasing access to HIV/AIDS drugs so long as the laws in question passed by these countries adhered to existing international law and international standards. 
   In other words, this amendment said to the executive branch--colleagues, I am being bipartisan in my condemnation, if you will--stop twisting arms, White House and others, of African countries that are basically using legal means to improve access of their citizens to HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals. I thank Senator FEINSTEIN and Senator FEINGOLD for this amendment. 
   One would think this effort to make anti-AIDS drugs more cheaply available to citizens in African countries--so long as these countries didn't violate any WTO rules--would be acceptable to every Senator and every Representative and every human being. 
   I think for a while the administration and others leaned on some of these governments to not use ``parallel'' importing in addition to local manufacturers, which is sort of interesting because some have legislation dealing with this subject. In other words, they would basically go to other countries and try to import FDA-approved drugs back from other countries at much less cost. 
   The ``why'' of this is because 13 million African lives have been lost since the onset of this crisis. Today, there are some 23 million African people infected with the AIDS virus--men, women, and children. 
   This was a modest amendment. This was the right thing to do. I don't blame  my colleagues. It is their institutional position. 
   The Senator from Iowa and the Senator from New York speak with pride about this legislation. I am going to dissent from some of the legislation dealing with some other 
   issues. But I don't think there is much to be proud of in terms of what happened in this conference. They fought. But let's look at the result after this amendment is taken out. Honest to goodness, I say to Senator FEINSTEIN and Senator FEINGOLD, I have absolutely no idea--well, I do actually have some ideas as to why there is opposition. But I want to speak for the people of Minnesota. 
   I guarantee both Senators FEINGOLD and FEINSTEIN that 99.99 percent of the people in my State of Minnesota are behind their amendment. I guarantee them that if anybody attempts to do this in the light of day, 99.99 percent of the people in this country support this amendment. It is the right thing to do. Our values tell us we should do this. If these governments aren't violating any trade policy and they can make these drugs more available to their populace--the people there don't have a lot of money; they can't afford this cocktail of drugs--then people can have some accessibility and we can save lives given the magnitude of this crisis. What is happening is devastating. People in Minnesota say: God bless you for doing this. 
   How do these conferees--whoever they are--justify pressuring these countries with, in some cases, a life expectancy that has dropped by 15 years? What arrogance to tell these governments they cannot use all the legal means at their disposal to make sure the people in their countries, men and women and children, have access to these drugs. Otherwise, more people suffer and more people die. This is another example of why people in this country become so furious about some of what happens here. 
   I love being a Senator. I love public service. But sometimes it is just too much. It really is. This amendment was accepted. If we had a vote on this amendment, I think it would be 100 to 0. However, it is taken out in conference. I guarantee people in the country are for this. 
   Why don't we turn our attention to the pharmaceutical industry, the pharmaceutical companies? I can guarantee they were not worried about losing customers in Africa because the people cannot afford their prices. They were worried about any kind of effort--regarding these drugs that could save people's lives--at making them more affordable might cut into their profits. That is what they are worried about. 
   This is a Fortune 500 report, of April 17, 2000. The annual Fortune 500 report on American business is out. Guess what. The pharmaceutical industry ranks first in profits. In the words of Fortune magazine--and I absolutely love this quote; I wish I made it up myself, but I can't plagiarize:  
   Whether you gauge profitability by median return or revenues, assets or equity, pharmaceuticals had a Viagra kind of year.  
   When the average Fortune 500 industry in the United States returned 5-percent profits as a percentage of revenue, the pharmaceutical industry returned 18.6 percent--the automobile industry, a pretty big industry, 3.5 percent; chemicals, 5.1 percent; airlines, 5.7 percent; telecommunications, 11.7 percent; pharmaceuticals, 18.6-percent profits. 
   I can anticipate the reaction of some: There goes that Senator from Minnesota, out there railing about profits. 
   The idea that this industry can make such excessive profit off the sickness, misery, illness, and, in the case of Africa with this amendment, death of people, is obscene. I say to this industry: You may have had Viagra profits, but you are making your profits off the sickness, misery, illness, and death of people. And it is obscene. You got your greedy paws into this conference committee. You were able to use all of the money you contribute to the Congress and all of the political power you have and you were able to get this amendment out, take it out. The result of that is many people--millions of people--will die. 
   For a while, the administration was involved in this. I am not proud of that. They were pushing hard, putting pressure on these governments. This amendment says you can't use any government money for any of this kind of lobbying, to try to prevent a government, which legally is trying to do what it can do to make sure these drugs are more affordable. 
   That is what this amendment said. It got taken out of conference committee. Can anyone imagine that happening? The Fortune 500 report stated: ``Viagra kind of year.'' 
   I am honored to support my two colleagues. Statistics show 23 million people in Africa are infected with the AIDS virus. By the way, I do not believe that it is pandering or appealing to some special interest for me to be speaking about a disease that infects more than 15,000 young people every day. I am not appealing to any special interest. I am representing values of Minnesotans. I am representing the values of the American people--which, obviously, were not the values of some people in this conference committee which took this amendment out. 
   I oppose this bill for that reason alone. I have some other reasons for speaking in opposition to this bill. I think what has happened is absolutely egregious. I would like to say to the pharmaceutical companies: Your days of being able to do this are over. I am not sure that is the case, but people in the country are getting sick of you. They are really getting tired of these companies. They are similar to a cartel. They charge excessive prices, they gouge Americans, they do everything they can to make sure other countries with large numbers of poor people, that the governments cannot do what they are legally entitled to do to get the drugs to people and to make them affordable. It is absolutely unbelievable. 
   The economic question and the political question is, Does this Congress belong to people in the country or does it belong to people in the pharmaceutical industry? The answer on the basis of what happened to this amendment is it belongs to the pharmaceutical industry. In other words, the pharmaceutical industry has great representation here in Washington. 
   It is the rest of the people who do not. This is a real reform issue. This is about people who are dying in Africa. It is also, when we get into this debate about pharmaceutical coverage for people in our country, people who all too often in our country can die--not anywhere near the same magnitude. I think of senior citizens in my State who spend $300, $400, $500, $600 a month for drugs they cannot afford. And this industry makes not a profit--great, make profits, but do not make obscene profits off of the sickness, misery, and death of people. 
   We are going to be out here today speaking about this over and over and over again. I do not think the pharmaceutical companies will like it. I would not. I doubt whether any Senator is going to come out here to defend them. I do not even know whether anybody in the conference committee would speak out. Let's have dueling press conferences today. Let's have different press conferences. The people who took out this amendment ought to speak publicly about why they did it. 
   Part B: This legislation, I know, is called the African Growth and Opportunity Act--I heard both my colleagues speak--and enhanced Caribbean Basin Initiative. But I will say this one more time. Every attempt that we made with this legislation to make sure these benefits would trickle down to the people was defeated. I think the message of this trade bill to African and Caribbean countries is a double message. Here is what it boils down to. For people in the United States, this is the message: If you should dare to try to organize, join a union, and bargain collectively to get a better wage, to get more civilized working conditions, to try to get health care coverage for your children, we are gone. We are on our way to these other countries because we can pay, as Wal-Mart is paying, 14 cents an hour in China. We can pay 14 cents an hour; we are gone. 
   In this trade bill to African and Caribbean countries, the message is, if you should dare to have even child labor standards, much less basic human rights standards, much less the right of people to organize and join a union to fight for themselves, then you do not get our investment. That is what this trade bill says. 
   So this is not a question of the first trade bill since NAFTA or are we internationalists or are we not? We had a bill--Congressman JESSE JACKSON, JR. on the House side, Senator FEINGOLD  on the Senate side--that expanded Africa's access to U.S. markets, but it also included labor rights and genuine debt relief. That is really important. We had jubilee. We had people here in Washington. When you look at sub-Saharan Africa, about a quarter of its export earnings are lost to its never-ending foreign debt service. If you really want to talk about what we need to help these countries, there you have it. 
   We had an alternative bill. I do not think it was ever voted on in the House. 
   This is not about whether or not you are an internationalist or isolationist. My father was born in Ukraine. He lived in Russia. He fled persecution in 1914. He never was able to see his family again. His family was, in all likelihood, murdered by Stalin. I grew up as an internationalist. I have said on the floor of the Senate--I get to say it once; I will not go on and on about this--it is a story that means something to me. He was almost 50 when I was born, and he was old country and he was an 
   embarrassment because he did not fit in with my friends' parents. He just wasn't cool. But when I got to be high school age, I realized what a treasure he was. He spoke ten languages fluently and I miss him dearly. He was a very wise person--profound. 
   So Sunday through Thursday night at 10 o'clock, we would meet in the kitchen and we would have hot tea and sponge cake and he would talk about the world. I am ``not an internationalist.'' I am not going to let anybody put that label on me. 
   The question is what kind of trade, under what kind of terms? Who decides who benefits and who is asked to sacrifice? Those are the questions that are before us. 
   Every time I go to some of these trade meetings and I hear the ministers from some of the developing countries say: Those of you, Senator WELLSTONE, who are opposed to these trade bills, you are in opposition to the poor--I always look for the poor there. I never see the poor there. I see trade ministers; I see the elites; but I don't see the poor. 
   But then, luckily, since I get a chance to work with the human rights community, I get to either meet with or hear about the poor and the citizens in these countries, ordinary people who are trying to get better wages, who are trying not to work with chemicals that are going to kill them, who are trying to do something about child labor conditions, who are trying to do something about the poisoning of their environment, who want to have jobs with dignity and who get thrown in jail for trying to change their lives for the better. They tell me that all this discussion about the poor and how great this is for the poor in these countries is a bit disingenuous, as they see it. 
   My colleagues can have a different point of view, and do--many, most, the vast majority. 
   My last point is this: I don't think I am going to do justice to this. But I saw an interesting piece in American Prospect that Bob Reich wrote, our former Secretary of Labor, that many of us might actually consider as a middle ground. Basically his argument went as such. 
   He said, assume for a moment, PAUL, even if you don't want to--he didn't use my name, but I felt like he was speaking to me--even if you don't want to agree, just assume for the moment the position of those who make the argument, ``Like it or not, this really will lead to economic growth for these countries, and this is a better chance for people than they have right now.'' Then consider your own position, which I have tried to lay out today. 
   He was saying, why not have some kind of framework that says when you have such bills, they pass, and the proponents say they will lead to economic growth and more opportunities, then what you would do would be to have a commitment, a priori, beforehand, commensurate with that growth and more opportunities and the country is doing better, minimum wage is going up and labor standards then put into effect. 
   I think it is an interesting idea. Maybe that will be a middle ground eventually where some of us can come together. But right now there is no middle ground to this. I will say it one more time. I know this bill is called an opportunity act and all the rest, but I think that is the message to this legislation--not the bill that Representative JACKSON and Senator FEINGOLD introduced--to people in this country. You 
   can't blame ordinary citizens. The polls show pretty conclusively that people with incomes under $60,000 or thereabouts are more than a little bit suspicious of these agreements. They do not think they are going to be in their best interests. They think they are going to be great for the big multinational companies but not them. You cannot lay blame on them for thinking that way because the message of this bill is, again, if you try to organize, try to join a union, try to fight for higher wages, these countries will go to Africa, Mexico, wherever, where they do not have to go by any of this. Goodbye. 
   Then the message to the people in these countries in this legislation is: Governments, people in these countries, don't you dare join a union. Don't you dare fight for your family. Don't you dare try to get better wages. Don't you dare try to abolish these abominable, exploitative child-labor conditions. Don't you do any of that because if you do, you will not get our investment. That is the message of this legislation. 
   I have spoken about the amendment that was deleted. I believe what happened in the conference committee is atrocious, and I have laid out the basis of my opposition to this legislation. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask the Senator for 10 seconds. My understanding is that following the Senator from Indiana, the Senator from North Carolina is going to speak. I ask unanimous consent that I follow the Senator from North Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, without losing my right to the floor, I yield for a moment to my colleague from Florida. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I shall be brief because a number of Senators are here who want to get the floor. I want to respond briefly to Senator GREGG. Then I want to raise one question for Senator LIEBERMAN. I wanted to speak to his amendment. I thought that was one way of being respectful. Then I want some Senators who are sponsoring this amendment, sometime after they make their presentation, to speak to the concerns I will raise in a moment. 
   First of all, however, I want to respond to the Senator from New Hampshire because all of this is a matter of record. The Senator brought out pictures of Governors and talked about when he was Governor. I think that is sort of beside the point. I don't remember anybody using such language, and I don't know that anybody implied such a thing. But I will say that when I talk about grassroots, I kid around about the Governors. People say: Let's hear from the grassroots. 
   Let me give you an example of what I consider grassroots--the National Campaign for Jobs and Income Support. This is a coalition of about 1,000 community groups, including faith-based and neighborhood organizations. 
   I had a chance to speak at their gathering in Chicago. Most of them are of color, and many are of low- to moderate-income. 
   They just released a study which I think speaks to one of the issues here. This is not, I say to Senator GRAHAM and others, responding to his amendment but in response to Senator GREGG's comments. 
   First of all, when we went through the debate on the welfare bill, I heard the discussion about this many times. Those who were for it said they didn't want the bill to be punitive. They talked about child care, food stamps, transportation, and health care. This study was just released this past weekend by this coalition. The problem, according to the study, is that many States are denying working poor families benefits to which they are legally entitled. That, of course, undermines the very incentives that Congress had in mind on behalf of the working poor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I quote from the article:  
   ``Even if you're a proponent of welfare reform, you'd be shocked at what's happening,'' says Lissa Bell, policy director of the Seattle-based Northwest Federation of Community Organizations. If the purpose of welfare reform is ``self-sufficiency,'' that idea is ``not being adequately reflected'' in actual administration of the programs, she says. 
   What Bell and her co-author, Carson Strege-Flora, found were many cases of states and localities violating federal rules by imposing waiting periods for programs that are supposed to have none; creating cumbersome application rules to make it hard for eligible people to get benefits, and misinforming the working poor about what help was available to them.  
   Here is my point to my colleague, Senator GREGG, and to others. The point is this: There are many fine Governors, but there is a reason why over 30 years ago we said there are certain core standards. We used the word ``accountability''--a certain core accountability when it comes to the poorest children in the country. And we are not about to support legislation that does away with a commitment to migrant children, a commitment to homeless children, a commitment on the part of the Federal Government that says to every State and school district there will be programs that will respond to the special and harsh circumstances of these children's lives. We are not going to leave this up to the States because even if there is some abuse and that is all there is, it is too much. 
   That is the point, I say to Senator GREGG. 
   Second, very briefly on the amendment that is before us, I thank my colleagues for their good work. I wanted to express the main concern I have. This is the one provision of this legislation which troubles me. 
   Could I ask my colleagues to shut that door at the top, please. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   One of the provisions in this amendment says if there has not been adequate progress on the part of title I children--there is a 4-year period that you look at, and then we do this assessment, and if there has not been adequate progress, then 30 percent of the funds which are title VI funds, as I understand it, are withheld from these school districts. 
   I just want to say to my colleagues that I think this is a mistake. I think we should have the assessment. I think we should know. But, as I see it, when you hold back the funds--and I think we can talk about how we may need to have different teachers; we may need to have different principals, but when we actually cut the funds in a variety of these different programs, I think the children are the ones who are paying the price. 
   This is near and dear to my heart. I think this is a mistake. 
   Here is the parallel that I would draw. I have been trying over the last month to come to the floor and say: Look, when we have these high-stakes tests for third graders and whether they go on to fourth grade, for God's sake, let's also make sure they have the resources to be able to pass these tests and that each of these children has the same opportunity to achieve. If we don't do that, I think this will be punitive. 
   I don't understand what some of my colleagues are doing. I think it is a big mistake to basically say to these schools and these school districts, especially when I see that they are the ones--I heard this debate this morning. I heard the Senator from Indiana. I thought it was kind of interesting. He said, you know, I heard the debate. Is it the Governors' fault or is it not the Governors fault? 
   I think in many ways we are at fault. I think it is pathetic how little of the National Government budget--I heard anywhere from one-half of 1 percent to 2 percent of our overall budget--goes to education. I still argue, look, we should be a player for prekindergarten, and we are not doing it. It is as if we forgot. It is as if we will jump on a bandwagon and get off of it quickly. A year ago all of us were talking about the 
   development of the brain. You have to get it right by the age of 3. Some of these kids come to school way behind. They fall further behind. Let's get that right. Let's do that. 
   We know from all of the research that has been done--whether we like it or not--that probably the two most important variables above and beyond a good teacher are the educational attainment and the income attainment of families. We are doing precious little, even with all of these surpluses and a booming economy, to change any of these circumstances that would so crucially affect how well children do. 
   The assumption is, if you are not trying hard enough, we are going to cut off the money. I think it hurts the kids. 
   I don't mind where Senator BINGAMAN and others are going on accountability. I think there are ways in which we can make it clear that there may have to be some reconstitution in terms of some of the personnel, albeit even there I am a little wary because I don't accept the assumption that the big problem is the teachers aren't trying hard enough or the principals are not trying hard enough or there isn't enough commitment. But, in any case, I don't like the sanction part. I think that is a big mistake because the kids are the ones who pay the price on this, as I understand this provision. 
   That was one concern I wanted to raise. I want my colleagues to speak to it because that is the way this debate should take place. 
   The only other concern I want to register, because there are plenty others who want to speak--some have said don't even raise it because we don't want to get into a big debate about it. But on paraprofessionals, I like some of  the changes that have been made with the language on this. There is language that I think says the only way you can hire paraprofessionals is to replace paraprofessionals. 
   I know what you are trying to get at, which is we don't want paraprofessionals actually doing the teaching. The teachers should be doing the teaching, and we don't want poor school districts to have the paraprofessionals who aren't certified and other school districts to have more. 
   On the other hand, it seems to me this may be a little bit too inflexible because as long as we make sure the teachers are doing the teaching, sometimes additional teaching assistants can make a huge difference in general above and beyond title I. 
   The second point I want to make is if we are going to talk about professional development for paraprofessionals--this happened, I say to Senator LIEBERMAN, about 3 weeks ago. I was back home. Sheila and I went to a gathering of cafeteria workers. We flew halfway across the State to be there. 
   Sheila was a teaching assistant 19 years ago when we were married. She dropped out of school to put me through school. All the kids thought she was a librarian; she didn't have a college degree. She was a teaching assistant. 
   In addition, there were food service workers, teaching assistants, custodians, and the bus drivers. One of the things they said: We don't mind more professional development, and we don't mind saying go back and get an associate degree, but please remember, many of us who have these jobs don't have a lot of income. We can't just give up a job to go back to school. We can't just take a sabbatical. 
   We ought to be very careful, as we talk about this for these paraprofessionals. If we want them to receive more training, if we want them going back to school, make sure they are able to do so; many can't right now. 
   Those are the two questions I raise. I am prepared to yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, since the Senator was responding to my concerns, I have a couple of comments. 
   First, I absolutely meant to thank the Senator for his effort. I don't want this to be a deal where I love you on the floor and then vote against your amendment. I want to make it clear I am thinking it through before the final vote. I appreciate what the Senator said, but I still think it doesn't speak to the concern I am trying to register. 
   For example, if you don't get it right in terms of these kids, then you are going to be cut. The problem is, there are other kids in the schools who may not be title I kids but they also need the help. The reason for that is title I is funded at the 30-percent level. In Minnesota, in St. Paul, when you get to a school that has fewer than 65 percent low-income kids, they don't get any of the money. All other schools get some of the money. There are a lot of other kids affected by cuts in the programs. 
   I am all for putting ``teeth'' into this. Again, I think the Bingaman amendment goes in the direction of accountability, and he talks about reconstitution. There are some definite proposals that do have teeth that say, look, we have to be accountable. I think ultimately it is a mistake to have your sanctions and trigger the cuts in what little assistance we give. We will end up cutting some of the scant resources we do give to schools which help kids. 
   I do not believe we should do that. I am going to make that point again, especially since I do not think we have in the Congress done anywhere close to what we should do to live up to our national vow of equal opportunity for every child. I believe this is a mistake. We are hurting the wrong people on this. 
   On professional development, again I appreciate the sensitivity of my colleague's response, but I actually was saying one other point, which was I still think we can make it crystal clear. The Senator has the teachers doing the teaching when they should be doing the teaching, but I do not understand why we have such an inflexible requirement that the only additional paraprofessionals hired would be hired to replace paraprofessionals. Some school districts say they need additional assistants who can help them do more one-on-one work. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am very pleased to join Senator JEFFORDS, Senator COLLINS, and Senator SNOWE as a cosponsor of the Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act of 2000. As this bill demonstrates, concern about the high price of prescription drugs in this country is a bipartisan issue. Republicans, Democrats, and independents alike suffer from the unconscionable behavior of American drug companies who overcharge American consumers day in and day out, compared to prices they charge in every other country of the world. Americans regardless of party have a fundamental belief in fairness--and know a rip-off when they see one. This bill aims to end the rip-off, to end the choke hold that the pharmaceutical industry has on America's seniors. 
   The Jeffords-Wellstone Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act will make prescription drugs affordable for millions of Americans by applying the principles of free trade and competition to the prescription drug industry--without sacrificing safety. Senator JEFFORDS, Senator SNOWE, Senator COLLINS and I have heard the first-hand stories from our constituents--in Minnesota, in Maine and in Vermont--constituents who are justifiably frustrated and discouraged when they can't afford to buy prescription drugs that are made in the United States--unless they go across the border to Canada where those same drugs, manufactured in the same facilities here in the U.S. are available for about half the price. 
   This legislation provides relief from the price gouging of American consumers by our own pharmaceutical industry. This price gouging affects all Americans, but especially our senior citizens who feel the brunt of this problem more than any other age group because of the increasing number of prescription drugs we all will take as the years pass. Senior citizens have lost their patience in waiting for answers---and so have I. That is why I have joined Senator JEFFORDS in this bipartisan effort to allow all Americans to have access to prescription drugs at prices they can afford. 
   While we can be proud of both American scientific research that produces new miracle cures and the high standards of safety and efficacy that we expect to be followed at the FDA, it is shameful that America's most vulnerable citizens--the chronically ill and the elderly--are being asked to pay the highest prices in the world here in the U.S. for the exact same medications manufactured here but sold more cheaply overseas. 
   Pharmacists could sell prescription drugs for less here in the United States, if they could buy and import these same drugs from Canada or Europe. Now, however, Federal law allows only the manufacturer of a drug to import it into the U.S. Thus American pharmacists and wholesalers must pay the exorbitant prices charged by the pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. market and pass along those high prices to consumers. 
   The legislative solution is simple. The bipartisan Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act does two things: first, it allows Americans to legally import prescription drugs for personal use (which currently is allowed by FDA discretion), and more importantly, in the long run, it allows American pharmacists and wholesalers to import FDA approved prescription drugs into the United States for resale. Only drugs which have already been approved by the FDA for use in the United States could be imported for resale. Thus, the existing strict safety standards of the FDA will be maintained. 
   Pharmacists and wholesalers will be able to purchase drugs at lower prices and then pass the savings along to American consumers. To assure safety, the bill requires the FDA to develop regulations to precisely track imported drugs and to issue any other safety requirements the FDA deems necessary. It is time to tell the pharmaceutical industry: Enough! It is an industry that controls competition to keep prices so high that prescription drugs become unaffordable for the average American. It is an industry that puts profits first and leaves patients to fend for themselves. 
   What this bill does is to address the absurd situation by which American consumers are paying substantially higher prices for their prescription drugs than are the citizens of Canada, Mexico, and other countries. This bill does not create any new federal programs. Instead it uses principles of free trade and competition to help make it possible for American consumers to purchase the prescription drugs they need. 
   In summary, this bill brings competition into the price of pharmaceuticals and extends the promise of America's medical and pharmaceutical research to every American. It deserves bipartisan support, and I am glad to say it has it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000508</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent I might have 4 minutes to speak about Mike Epstein, who passed away on Saturday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000508</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, first I want colleagues to know, and of course this is for Democrats and Republicans, and with Mike it is for staff and support staff and just about everybody who works here, pages and others, there will be a service for Mike in the Mansfield Room. It will be at 3 tomorrow. That is room S-207. 
   Many Senators came to the floor and spoke about Mike last week, on Thursday. It was wonderful. I thank you. About 70 people came to our office and did videos. All of this was sent to his family. Mike heard it. It was read to Mike. It meant a great deal to him. Letters have come in. It has really been wonderful to recognize such a great, great person. 
   Mike passed away on Saturday. We had a very small service for him today. He was buried in the Congressional Cemetery. Rabbi David Saperstein was there, Mike's family was there, and a few friends of many years were there. Then tomorrow we will have a service here. I look forward to that because it is wonderful, I say as a friend of Mike, the unbelievable impact he made. 
   I could go on forever. I will not because if I try to, the truth is I probably will not be able to go on at all. I just would not be able to do it here on the floor. I will say one unimportant thing because it is about me, and then I will say one important thing, and then I will be finished. 
   The unimportant thing is in some ways I will just be lost without him. It is not like Mike was my assistant; it was like he was my teacher. But I will talk to him every day. 
   The second thing I want to say, which is much more important, is if I had to summarize a life, I would say the reason there has been such an outpouring of love is because Mike loved his family; he loved his work. And do you know what else? This is the best thing of all. He really loved and believed in public service. He loved his country. He was just steady. It was just who he was. He never changed. 
   The world is going to miss him. The Senate is going to miss him. Most important of all, his family is going to miss him. Sheila and I are going to miss him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000508</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before the Senator from Utah leaves the floor, I thank him for his discussion of his amendment. I was listening carefully to his discussion, and his focus on providing States incentives for moving toward equity and his focus on what Jonathan Kozol calls savage inequalities and the tremendous disparity of resources, depending on the wealth of the community in which a child lives, is right on the mark. 
   I thank the Senator from Utah for his words. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000508</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Senator KENNEDY wants to ask the Senator from Utah a question, and then I will regain the floor after that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000508</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Since part of the remarks by the Senator from Utah dealt with the equity question, I just want to add to the RECORD a quote from John Powell, who is director of the Institute on Race and Poverty in Minnesota:  
   When low-income children are segregated into schools that are predominantly poor, the students confront not only their own individual poverty, but the effects of concentrated poverty on the school system itself. This combination often results in more drop-outs and teenage pregnancies, lack of parental involvement, inability to pay for books, lack of role models, and inability to afford college.  
   It goes on to say:  
   Teachers and staff in racially segregated and high poverty schools are too often overwhelmed by student needs.  
   Let me take my remarks in a couple of different directions. 
   I want to first talk about a meeting I had with the National Alliance of Black School Educators who were here last week. I had a chance to drop by and not talk at them but talk with them. 
   Since the Senator from Utah was talking about the whole question of equity, or lack of equity, let me, right away, say to colleagues that I really hope we go forward with this debate. Sometime later on in the debate, I am going to come out on the floor and talk about it and have some amendments speaking to this question. It is the question of the reliance on high-stakes testing--the single measurement of standardized tests to determine whether or not children go from third grade to fourth grade, from eighth grade to ninth grade, whether they graduate, what grouping they are in. 
   I just want to point something out since Senator HATCH talked about this. We ought to make sure we meet the opportunity-to-learn standard if we are going to be implementing these tests. In other words, we had better make sure we do not hold children responsible for our failure to adequately invest in their achievement and in their future. 
   If we just focus on tests and then flunk students who do not pass the tests, and we do not do what we should do both at the Federal level and, I say to my colleague from Arkansas, the State and school district level combined, to get the resources so that each one of these children has the same chance to pass these tests, and to succeed, then, frankly, I think reliance on these tests alone is punitive. So you need to do it both ways. Yes, you need to have standards, but you also need to make sure every child has the same opportunity to meet those standards. 
   I will say one other thing about the tests. I will have an amendment that says these tests ought to meet professional standards. We want to make sure they are implemented in the right way. I will have an amendment that says we need to take into account especially learning disabilities, which I think is the law of the land. I think we ought to make that clear in this bill. We ought to speak to those students who have a limited proficiency in English as well. 
   More than anything, I want to talk a little bit about this opportunity-to-learn standard that I do not think we are meeting. I think it is so key to the whole discussion. I think it is key to what John Powell has said. I think it is key to what other Senators have said as well. I think it is key, actually, to at least part of what the Senator from Utah, Mr. HATCH, was saying as well. 
   We are out here debating this bill, and we should. In a 
   moment I am about to, one more time, say where I think the Republican bill is deeply flawed and why I am so disappointed in it. But for a moment I would like to just talk about the budget implications. 
   I do not know whether we are spending 1 percent of the Federal budget--someone can help me--or thereabouts on education altogether. Does that sound right? Is it 1 percent of the overall Federal budget on education? It is 2 percent. 
   I argue that key to our national security is whether or not we are going to adequately invest in the skills and character of the children. I argue that key to our national security is not so many more bombs and missiles and more money spent on the Pentagon; the key to our national security is the security of local communities. I think that is what matters first and foremost. 
   The key to security for local communities is good housing, reducing violence, and having decent health care. But I think most importantly, the key to our national security is the security of local communities. And the security of local communities means we have a commitment to education second to no other nation in the world so that every child--every single child--is full of hope, and every child has dreams, and every child can do well. 
   I tell you, I think 2 percent of the Federal budget spent on education is pathetic. I know the Senator from Vermont agrees because he has been one of the Senators who has been most vocal in saying we ought to get our priorities straight and we ought to be allocating more resources. 
   We are going to debate how we allocate those resources to States and local school districts. That is the debate on this bill. I will speak just for a few minutes. I said to my colleague from Arkansas I would not take more than 20 minutes altogether, and I will not. 
   But I think the larger question is, Why in the world are we not allocating more of our Federal budget to education? Why aren't we getting more of the resources back to the school districts, whether it be for the IDEA program, kids with special needs--boy, that would help our school districts--whether it be moving beyond just 30 percent funding for title I; whether it be a real investment in affordable child care, prekindergarten, so kids come to school ready to learn; whether it be some money we can leverage. Senator HARKIN has that amendment that will enable school districts to have more funding to put into rebuilding crumbling schools, you name it. 
   I am just amazed that with a booming economy and the country doing so well economically, we in the Congress, in the Senate, cannot invest more than 2 percent of our overall budget in our children's education. They are 100 percent of our future. I do not know how in the world any Senator believes, on a tin cup budget, we are going to be able to make the kind of investment we should be making. That is my first point. 
   My second point is--Senator KENNEDY spoke about this. My guess is we will get a different point of view from some other Senators in just a moment--I think the fundamental flaw of S. 2 is the abandonment of a commitment we made over 30 years ago as a nation that we would have some basic national standards, some basic protection, to make sure the poorest children in this country, the most vulnerable children in this country, would be well served or at least would be served. We do not serve them well, but at least 
   to make sure that for the homeless children and the migrant children there would be programs that would speak to the needs and circumstances of their lives, that we would target title I money to the neediest and poorest and most vulnerable children. 
   Do you know what. I sometimes think Senators are taking this too personally because it is not necessarily an attack on my State or an attack on the State of Arkansas or an attack on the State of Vermont; it is just a matter of philosophy. 
   Over three decades ago, we made a commitment that the Federal Government, representing the national community, with certain core values, would make sure we provide some programs that really speak to the most vulnerable children, that we are not going to abandon those children. 
   I said it last week; I will say it one more time. My colleagues keep talking about change, change, change. I do not think it is a great step forward. I think  it is a great leap backward. That is why many of us oppose it. That is why I think the President opposes it. That is why I think we have started out on the wrong foot. 
   Going further than that--and this will be the last part of what I want to say; I will just divide it in two quick parts--one, I say to Senator LOTT and others, I look forward to having a chance to bring amendments out here. I want to have some amendments that speak to the discriminatory effect of the standardized testing. I want to have some amendments that provide support for children who witness violence at home and, therefore, cannot do well in school. 
   I want to have an amendment that provides for more counselors in our schools. In some ways, I cannot think of a more important amendment. Right now, we have a ratio of 1 counselor for every 1,000 students, or thereabouts, in the country. 
   I want to have an amendment that speaks directly to the challenges of urban education. Some of my colleagues have put back language that deals with the special challenges of rural education, which I also think is a real challenge, but I also want to put a focus on urban education as well. 
   As someone who was a teacher at the college level--but, boy, I will tell you, I came to respect teaching at the high school and middle school level; I think sometimes even more at the elementary level, and the pre-K level even more so, as well--I am interested in anything and everything that leads to better teacher quality, with the proviso that we understand there are many really fine teachers right now in the country. 
   I said this last week, but I will say it again, too. 
   I don't mind holding everybody accountable if we do it in the right way. But I also think that some of the people who bash public school teachers couldn't last an hour in the classrooms which they condemn. I think we have to be very careful in how we do it. 
   The other thing I want to mention beyond my amendment is to say one more time to other Senators that I think there are some amendments we have introduced and we will be introducing that certainly speak to many of the meetings I have had with people in Minnesota. 
   I have been ready for this bill to come to the floor for almost 2 years. 
   I think all together in our State of Minnesota--between myself and staff--we had meetings with close to 100 different school districts. It is incredible. We have been all over the State. People were genuinely excited about this bill. They know that most of the money for K through 12 is at the State level. They know that. But people have been very interested in how we can provide more incentives for more teachers. They are very interested in the whole question of what we can do about the needs of physical infrastructure. They are very interested in trying to get more counselors in our schools. They are very interested in the sense of getting more young people interested in education. They are very interested in what we did do in prekindergarten. They think that would make a huge difference. They are very interested in afterschool programs. They are very interested in reducing class size. 
   Frankly, the Republican bill on the floor speaks to very little of that--not directly. It assumes with sort of a blank check that it will all happen. 
   I say to my colleagues in the majority that you have not invested nearly enough money in your budget, nor will it be in the appropriations bill. We have too many speeches given about the importance of children, but we are not matching the rhetoric with the resources. 
   The second thing I say to my colleagues is in terms of how you allocate the money. I think it is not a big step forward. I think it is a great leap backward from the kind of commitment we have made to all of the children in the country, including the most vulnerable children and the poorest children in this country. 
   Third, and finally, there should be some decisive priorities in this bill. I have tried to outline some of those priorities. I don't see it. 
   We will move forward this week, next week, and I hope the next week as well. Maybe in 2 more weeks we will have amendments, votes, and see where we wind up. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have a unanimous-consent request regarding debate on this amendment. I think we will probably go back and forth, but on the Democratic side, after Senator KENNEDY and Senator MURRAY speak, I ask unanimous consent I follow them in sequence as we alternate back and forth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague. I reserve my right to the floor and yield to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I believe I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. Mr. President, I will first respond, to make this a debate format, to some of the points I heard raised. I also will speak to the second-degree amendment. 
   One of the points that was made is that the focus on teacher merit is important because it leads to retention of teachers. I want to cite the National Commission on Teaching & America's Future, a report that came out in 1996 in which they spelled out the key elements for effective teacher retention: A, organize professional development around standards for teachers and students; B, provide a yearlong inservice internship; C, include mentoring and strong evaluation of teacher skills; and D, offer stable, high-quality professional development. 
   The second-degree amendment is about implementing merit schools programs for rewarding all teachers in schools that improve student achievement for all students, including the lowest achieving students. 
   Over and over, we have been here making sure those students who come from difficult circumstances and do not do as well are the students to whom we pay special attention. 
   B, providing incentives and subsidies for helping teachers gain advanced degrees in academic fields in which the teachers teach; 
   C, implementing rigorous peer review, evaluation, and recertification programs for teachers; 
   And D, providing incentives for highly qualified teachers to teach in the neediest schools. 
   In many ways, what is in the second-degree amendment mirrors what the National Commission on Teaching & America's Future tells us we need to do to have the very best teachers and retain those teachers as well. 
   I speak on behalf of the second-degree amendment. I want to talk about where I strongly dissent from the amendment my colleagues from Michigan and Florida have laid out: the emphasis on reforming teacher tenure systems and the emphasis on establishing teacher compensation systems based on merit and proven performance. Then I will talk about testing teachers periodically in the academic subjects in which they teach. I will talk about each one. 
   I am the first to admit that the tenure system does not always work the way we want it. I am the first to admit there are some teachers, unfortunately, in our schools who do not add to children but subtract. Sometimes they are tenured teachers, and that is when it gets tough. There is a reason for tenure, and the reason for tenure is to make sure teachers are free to express their ideas. 
   Albeit, I taught at the college level, but I am a perfect example of someone who benefited from tenure. First, I had to fight to get it. That is a 20-hour speech. The point is, there is no doubt in my mind that tenure was what gave me the protection to freely express my ideas on campus. 
   When we talk about education, we want students introduced to a variety of ideas, and we do not want teachers put in a position where they do not feel free to express their viewpoint, where they do not feel free to teach the way they believe they should teach, to teach students the way they think they should teach students because they worry about capricious, arbitrary decisions that might be made. 
   I now will talk about compensation based upon merit and 
   then talk about teachers being tested periodically, and to give the example of Denver, CO, I think, raises yet another question. That has to do with this path we are barreling down with all the emphasis on standardized tests. 
   It is unbelievable. We have a trend in the country--and thank goodness people are now starting to look at it--where we are going to measure a student's academic performance on the basis of a single standardized test when all the people who have developed those tests tell us we should never use a single standardized test, and when we have not done what we should do to make sure every student has the same opportunity to do well on those tests. Let me do that parallel with teachers. 
   Let me give an example. I can see how this could very well happen given this proposal. If, for example, how well teachers are doing is based on how well students are doing, which is, in turn, based upon standardized tests given to students at as young an age as 8, if one is teaching in a school in an inner city, if one is teaching in a school in rural America, if one is teaching in a school where these kids come to kindergarten way behind, where they come from poverty homes, where they come from pretty difficult circumstances, and they do not have the resources they need, it could be your students are not going to do as well. Do we then argue the teachers do not show merit? 
   In addition, what kind of tests are we talking about using? The people who have done the professional work on having the very best teachers have said that in addition to having the decent salaries, in addition to putting an end to the bashing of public school teachers, in addition to making sure teachers have the resources with which to work, in addition to making sure we invest in the infrastructure of the schools, that we have the technology programs, that we have a manageable class size, in addition to all that, we want to have good peer evaluation, we want to have mentors, we want to have good programs during the summer, such as the Eisenhower program which has been eliminated in this block grant program which enables teachers of math and science to come together to compare notes and become revitalized and renewed. We want to do all of that. 
   None of that is in this proposal. None of it is in the Republican bill, S. 2. 
   I say to my colleagues, not only does this amendment out here on the floor reflecting S. 2 do precious little to, No. 1, attract the very best into teaching, and, No. 2, to retain the very best in teaching--by the way, we have some of the very best teachers right now in public schools. 
   You know what, colleagues. Here is my challenge. I will tell you one of the ways we can retain good teachers is to stop bashing public school teachers. Some of the harshest critics of public school teachers on the floor of the Senate could not last 1 hour, I say to Senator SCHUMER, in the classrooms they condemn. 
   When I go into schools and talk to the students--and I am in a school every 2 weeks--I ask them: What do you think makes for good education? The first thing they say is: Good teachers. That is the first thing, even before, I say to Senator MURRAY, lower class size. 
   Then I ask: What makes for good teachers? And then we get into this discussion about what makes for good teachers. 
   By the way, I never hear students say the really good teachers are the teachers who engage in drill teaching, worksheet learning. 
   They hate it. They say the good teachers are the teachers who fire their imaginations, get them to connect themselves personally to the material they are talking about--none of which is ever reflected in these standardized tests. 
   Then, later on in the discussion--let's say there is an assembly of 600 students--I ask: How many of you are interested in going into public school teaching? I will tell you, I am lucky if it is 5 percent--maybe it is 10 percent--who say they are. This occurs at the very same time we are talking about over the next 10 years needing 2 million more people to go into education to become teachers, at the very same time we all say we care so much about education. 
   Then I ask the students: Why not? I want to tell you, colleagues, when these young people talk about whether or not they are going to go into public school teaching, and why they do not want to go into public school teaching, I guarantee you, they never say the reason they are not going to go into public school teaching to become public school teachers is because they are not going to have these merit tests. 
   They do not say: If there were merit tests, and we would have standardized tests to determine how we are doing to see if we are qualified to teach, then we would be really interested in becoming public school teachers.  
   They say two things discourage them from becoming public school teachers. No. 1 is that salaries are too low. By the way, a lot of women say--they are very honest about it--there was a time when maybe they would have had to go into teaching. They don't have to any longer in terms of opportunities for them. 
   The second thing they say--I think this needs to be said to some of our colleagues--is that they would be disrespected. I say to Senator MURRAY, who has probably had this discussion in Washington State, they have put more of an emphasis on being disrespected than the salary. They say there is just very little respect. 
   Then I say to them: Wait a minute. You are the students. Are you disrespecting your teachers? 
   They say: Well, you know, on our part, we do not give the 
   teachers the respect they deserve. But it is a problem in the community as well. 
   So I say to my colleagues on the other side, rather than bringing amendments to the floor of the Senate that do not speak to what it is we should do to attract the very best teachers into public school education, what we should do--some of which is in the second-degree amendment that we now present--is put an emphasis on rewarding schools for doing well with the students and providing subsidies to help teachers gain advanced degrees in academic fields--who could argue with that?--and implementing good peer review. That really matters. 
   I say to Senator MURRAY, we were both teachers. Senator MURRAY, I think, would agree to having good evaluation and also providing incentives for highly qualified teachers to teach in the neediest schools. I thank my colleagues, Senator KENNEDY and Senator MURRAY, for having that provision in the amendment. That makes a great deal of sense. 
   The Abraham amendment which basically talks about maybe trying to figure out ways of ``reforming'' tenure systems, which I think means getting rid of tenure--let's be clear about what we are talking--and then talks about the teacher compensation systems based upon merit and proven performance, and then right away goes to periodic testing of teachers, is ridiculous. What kind of test are you going to use? 
   Now we are going to have standardized tests of students all over the country. Now we are going to have a single, standardized test for teachers all over the country. It is all going to become educational deadening. It is all going to discourage really talented people from wanting to teach. It is going to lead to drill education. It is going to focus attention away from what we all should be doing to make sure kids do well in school. It does not represent a step forward. 
   So I say to colleagues, I come here as someone who views education as the most important issue--that has been my adult life, education--to speak strongly in support of our second-degree amendment and to speak strongly in opposition to the Abraham-Mack amendment. 
   One final time I have to say this. I want to issue a warning. Albeit, the language is ``may,'' but there is Federal money involved here. I want to, one more time, say that we are, in the name of ``reform,'' talking about standardized testing everywhere. 
   I tell you, we should just listen to the students. I ask every Senator--Democrat and Republican alike--over the next 6 months, to try to spend a good deal of time in the schools in your States. Maybe many of you do. I am not implying the Senator from Michigan does not. 
   I find very little interest in standardized tests as representing a real indication of reform. I find the interest is in the discussion of smaller class size, the discussion of how to get really good teachers, the discussion of really good child care, prekindergarten, and the discussion of the decaying physical infrastructure of schools. I find a lot of the discussion, frankly, about what happens to kids when they go home and what happens to kids before they go to school. I find a lot of the discussion, in the best schools, about how teachers feel free to teach. They team teach. I heard Senator MURRAY talk about that. It is really very exciting. I would say that is the direction in which we should go, not in this other direction. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think my colleague from Ohio is going to go next. 
   I am only going to take 5 minutes. I ask unanimous consent that I follow the Senator from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask the Senator from Ohio, how long does he intend to speak? However long is fine with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague how long he may be speaking on the floor. It is fine with me however much time he uses. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will try to respond to the comments of my colleague from Ohio because I like it better when we go back and forth. He is a Senator I certainly respect. 
   I have two points. I want to get back to Senator MURRAY's point. On the whole general question of the Federal role, let me say to my colleague from Ohio that it is absolutely true that much of K through 12 is at the State level, no question about it. But going back to the history of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--and I have said this three or four times--there is a reason why we have certain streams of money and targeting of programs, especially toward the most vulnerable children, because whereas the Senator from Ohio--and I have no doubt about the Senator's commitment to children, but the fact is, in too many parts of the country the verdict was very harsh at the State and local level. We decided, look, as a national community--and we reflected that--we are going to make sure we make a commitment to the poorest and most vulnerable children. I don't want to see us abandon that commitment. That is what this debate is about. 
   On welfare, with all due respect to the President--and my colleagues quoted the President--we have reduced the rolls by half. Anybody can do that. You just tell people they are off. The question is whether or not we met the goal of the bill, which was to move families from welfare to economic self-sufficiency. Guess what. Just about every single study I know of--and maybe you know of another one--has pointed out that in the vast majority of cases these mothers barely make above minimum wage, and many families have no health care coverage. 
   Families U.S.A. pointed out that we have 675,000 citizens who don't receive any health care coverage any longer because of the welfare reform bill. We had a study from Harvard-Berkeley that in all too many cases--they looked at a million children --because of this welfare bill, children were getting dangerous to inadequate, at best, child care. These are small children. Guess what. We have not made sure that there is good child care. We haven't made sure these families have health care coverage, and the States are sitting on $7 billion. Some States are supplanting that and using it to replace existing State programs and using that money for tax cuts. So we have some reasons to be concerned about how poor children will fare without some kind of Federal Government national commitment to them. That is my first point. 
   My second point has to do with this amendment. I thank Senator MURRAY from Washington for introducing this amendment. She pointed it out--and I will say it again--that across the country this year--and we did this in a bipartisan way--1.7 million first through third graders now attend classes with an average of 18 students because we were able to provide funding for 29,000 new teachers; 519 of them are in my State of Minnesota. 
   Now, the President's request for 2001 will bring Minnesota over $23 million more. I will say this again. I can give many examples. I will forget all the statistics. My daughter, Marcia, is a Spanish teacher. Hey, I am a Jewish father, so I think she is the greatest teacher in the country; and she is a 
   darn good teacher from what I hear. She told me what it was like when she had 40 students. She teaches at the high school level. 
   Every time I am in a school, which is every 2 weeks in Minnesota, I talk to the students about education. They always talk about good teachers and about respecting teachers. They think teachers are disrespected. We talked about that this morning. They also talk about smaller class sizes. I tell you, it makes all the sense in the world. Talk to people in our States. They know it. With a smaller class size, they know that a teacher can give students the individual attention they need. 
   When you ask students: Who are the teachers you like, they say: They are not just the teachers who teach us the formal material; they are the teachers who get to know us; they are the teachers who relate to us; they are the teachers who we can come and talk to; they are the teachers who can give us special help; they are the teachers who can give us special attention; they are the teachers who know something about what we hope for in our lives. 
   Do you want to know something? There are a lot of young people who cry out for that kind of teacher and cry out for that kind of education. Do you want to know something else? One of the best ways we can get there is through smaller class sizes. 
   Yes, we have said through this amendment, as Democrats who represent people in our States, but I think it should be a bipartisan amendment. We believe it should be a decisive priority for the Senate to say that we are going to make a commitment--most of the funding is at the State level, but with the money we have and what we do to support school districts and to support principals and parents and teachers and students, let's make the best use of the money, and that is exactly what this amendment does. 
   I think this is a great amendment. I think it should receive 99 to 100 votes. Before it is all over, for all I know, it will. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me thank the leadership of both parties for allowing the Senate to talk to a very dear friend, Mike Epstein. I want you to know, Mike, and your family, that a lot of our staff are back here as well with me. I think this is a little unusual, that the Senate stops its business and focuses on an individual in this way. But I think there are some things that many of us want to say to Mike. 
   I want to start out this way. When I mentioned in the past couple of days to Senators, but also support staff everywhere here, that my friend Mike was struggling with cancer, I just could never have anticipated the reaction. Mike, I want you to know I can think of at least four or five times where someone said to me: Mike? He's an institution. 
   I know Mike's priorities, so let me be clear about the people who talk about Mike as an institution. And, Mike, I know you; this was real. This was real. 
   Some of the people who said Mike is an institution were support staff. People said to me: Mike just treats everybody so well. He is such a nice, good person. He is great, just because of the way he treats people. 
   Mike, that is the best compliment of all. 
   Then Senators said to me: PAUL, Mike Epstein is an institution in the Senate. Some may have been thinking about history. Some in the Senate--I  do not think that many because we have had a lot of new Senators--know of Mike's role with the Church committee and the important investigative research he has done. 
   There are others who are familiar, Mike, with the kind of work you have done with Senator KENNEDY. Mike did some of the most important investigative research on HIV infection and AIDS early on when other people in the country did not even want to focus on this. 
   Then other Senators said to me: PAUL, we are going to come to the floor and talk to Mike today because we have worked with him on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee when he was chief counsel to the committee. 
   Then way down on the list of priorities--because I am talking to you, Mike, about great work that you do--has been the work that Mike and I have done together. Mike, I know you will not like me saying this, but I am going to say it anyway because it is true. I believe from the bottom of my heart that everything I have been able to do as a Senator that has been good for Minnesota and the country is because, Mike, you have been there right by my side, 1 inch away from me. 
   A lot of the people in the Senate know that. As a matter of fact, I say to my colleagues on the floor, I will never forget one time when I finally learned at least a little bit of the rules and I was able to come to the floor and fight very hard a number of years ago for some assistance for victims of a tornado that hit Chandler, MN, and other small communities. Mike was there as my tutor, as my teacher, teaching me, as you do, Mike. 
   It worked out well, but afterwards, Alan Simpson, a former Senator from Wyoming, came up to me and said: PAUL? 
   I said: Yes? 
   He said: You see those fellows on the other side of the aisle?--pointing to the Republicans, and I think Nancy Kassebaum was there as well. 
   I said: Yes. 
   He said: They have been looking at you. 
   I said: Yes. 
   Mike was a ways behind me about where Tinker is sitting right now. 
   He said: He has been right next to you the whole time. It doesn't look good. It looks like you can't do it yourself. It looks like he is doing it for you. PAUL, the trick is this: You want to have Mike far enough away from you so that it looks like you are doing it yourself but close enough to you in case they throw a whizzer on you, he can be 1 inch away from your side. 
   That has basically been my methodology as a Senator. I had Mike far enough away so it looked like I was doing it on my own, but Mike was close enough so that always when I needed the advice, I got it. 
   Mike Epstein, I speak on the floor today in the Senate, and others are coming out to speak, because you are an institution and I want to make sure you and your family hear these words loudly and clearly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Nevada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague from Wisconsin sent a wonderful letter that was read to Mike and he loved it. I thank him for that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank all of the Senators who spoke for Mike and his family. There are other Senators who will be speaking who could not work into this timeframe. It is quite amazing to have so many people come down. 
   Mike, I want you to know that the Parliamentarian, staff, Republican, Democrat, everybody here has a look on their face, an expression of love and support for you and your family.  
   I finish this way, Mike. It has not been our friendship--the relationship is not like I hired somebody to be my assistant; it is more like I hired somebody who has been my teacher. Maybe that is why we are joined at the hip. 
   Sometimes when I come to the floor, probably I make mistakes, maybe get too intense, feel too strongly. I will ask Mike, how have I done? He will be willing to give me quite a bit of constructive criticism. But sometimes I will be down on the floor with other Senators and I will go back to the office and I will go to Mike and look for approval. I will say: Mike, how did I do? And he will say: That was just right. 
   Mike, I hope you think this was just right. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent, after my presentation, Senator HUTCHINSON follow me. We will rotate. Senator DODD could not stay. He will be allowed to follow Senator HUTCHINSON. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have had a chance to come to the floor the last couple of days. My colleague from Arkansas has been on the floor, as well. We will go back and forth in this discussion. I support some of what my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, had to say about the differences between the Democrat proposal now on the floor and the Republican proposal. The differences between our alternative proposal and the Republican bill make a huge difference. 
   I have loved being a Senator. It is quite an honor. I don't think I will ever feel otherwise. I only mean this in the spirit of a twinkle in my eye. Honest to goodness, Washington, DC, and this Congress is the only place I have ever been where people say: Let's hear from the grass roots, the Governors are here. 
   Governors are not what I know to be grass roots. There could be good Governors, bad Governors, average Governors, but my colleagues have a bit of tunnel vision thinking of Governors as grass roots. Grass roots is community, neighborhood, school district level. 
   This is a tough point, but it is a point that needs to be made. There is a reason, going back over 30 years, that we as a Congress representing the Federal Government, representing the United States of America, have made it clear we don't just do block granting without some major accountability when it comes to the question of whether or not we are going to invest in poor children in America. 
   That is why we have a migrant children program. That is why we have a program for homeless children. I think this legislation, S. 2, rather than representing a great step forward, and change, is a great leap backwards. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That will be fine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senator from Arkansas be able to proceed right now. I will be pleased to follow the Senator from Arkansas. I think I might get done, but I will defer to my colleague, not because I think he is right but because I think he is a good Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it is amazing, I say with a twinkle in my eye. I actually agree with my colleague from Arkansas on one thing: This really is a debate about the future and the past. I just think he has it mixed up as to which bill represents which. 
   I am looking at the people who are opposed to S. 2. I see the American Association of School Administrators, American Federation of Teachers, Antidefamation League, Council of Great Cities Schools, Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, National Alliance of Black School Educators, National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Legal Defense Fund, National Association of Elementary School Principals, National Association of Secondary School Principals, National Parent Teachers Association, National School Board Association. 
   What occurs to me--and I will try to say it differently than I said yesterday--is what we have is not bureaucratic or some top-down Government program, we have school board members; we have the PTA, parents, elementary school principals; we have high school principals; we have teachers. 
   One can argue that all these organizations do not represent all of the principals, all of the teachers, all of the school board members, and all of the parents in the country, but, with all due respect, they represent many of them. The reason my colleagues do not have any such support from the parents, the teachers, the school board members, and the principals at the local level is because S. 2 is not connected to what it is people are asking us to do. 
   I will again talk about what my colleague from Arkansas was talking about, which is past versus future. This is what they have for accountability. This is the sum total of the Republicans' accountability provision:  
   The Secretary shall renew the agreement for an additional 5-year term if, at the end of the 5-year term described in subsection (a), or soon after the term is practicable, the State submits the data required under the agreement and (2) the Secretary determines on the basis of the data that the State has made substantial progress--  
   Whatever in the world that is. 
   We turn back the clock 35 years. We abandon our commitment to poor children, to vulnerable children. We no longer have the specific commitment to migrant children and homeless children. Then the accountability provision is we wait for 5 years to see what has happened to these kids, and then the Secretary determines, on the basis of the data, whether or not the State has made ``substantial progress,'' which is not defined. This is hardly what I call a very rigorous accountability standard. 
   My colleague from Arkansas talked about the Workforce Investment Act. I wrote that bill with Senator DEWINE. I know something about that bill. Actually, it is a good example, but my colleague from Arkansas has made the mistake of assuming this was just a crude block grant program. That is not what we passed. It was a good compromise. Yes, we were able to go after some of the duplication and some of the bureaucracy. We also made sure there was a targeting and separate stream of funding for youth programs, for adult training programs, for dislocated worker programs, and I also think for veterans' programs. 
   When my colleague cites the Workforce Investment Act as an example of what we should be doing, it is precisely the opposite of what the majority party has presented. I will say it one more time, and then I will move on to a couple of other points in the positive. I first have to talk about what I am against, and then I have to talk about what I am for. 
   I am, as a Senator from the State of Minnesota, in agreement with the principals, school board members, the teachers, and the parents all across the country who oppose this legislation, S. 2, in part because it is an abandonment of the good commitment we made as a nation to our most vulnerable children. That, in and of itself, invites my opposition, and I believe it invites the opposition of most of the people in the country. 
   Secondly, when I look at the accountability language in S. 2, with all due respect, it is inadequate at best. 
   Frankly, there is nothing there. 
   Now, my colleague is not on the floor now. Senator BROWNBACK is someone I am working together with on a good bill that is going to be dealing with the trafficking of women and children for the purposes of forcing women and children into prostitution and forced labor. It is an outrage. We are working together. But my colleague and other colleagues have said S. 2 is patterned after the welfare bill. He said: It has been a brilliant success, with the mothers working. And they are happy. People are working and happy. 
   For 2 years I have been trying to get a policy evaluation of what in fact is happening with the welfare bill. We do not know. 
   We know this. We have reduced the rolls by 50 percent. 
   We know this. We have barely reduced the poverty. 
   We know this. The vast majority of these mothers who are working have jobs barely above the minimum wage. 
   We know this. Mr. President, 670,000 more American citizens, many of them women and children, no longer have any medical coverage. 
   We know this. There has been a dramatic decline in food stamp participation. 
   We know this. The child care situation is dangerous. Many of these 2-year-olds and 3-year-olds, with their single parent working, are at home with someone who really should not be taking care of them or there are inadequate or downright dangerous child care situations. 
   We know all that. Can someone please give me the evidence for this being a great success? 
   We also know the Governors in the States are sitting on top of $7 billion of TANF money, while the child care needs of these children--poor children--are not being met. 
   I have colleagues out here who are telling me that on the basis of what we don't know--and then on the basis of what we do know, which is that it has been really quite brutal what has been happening--we should use the TANF experience as the basis for moving toward this crude block grant approach. It does not make a lot of sense. 
   As a matter of fact, some of our Governors have actually used the TANF money with a little bit of a budget gimmickry for tax cuts. Some of the States are being called on the carpet. 
   Would it surprise anybody here that not all this money is going to poor women and poor children? That is the point, colleagues. Please do not bring that piece of legislation out here and say it is a brilliant success and that people are working and happy when there is no empirical evidence to support that at all. 
   So my first point is, it is a great leap backwards. 
   My second point is, the accountability provision of the Republican plan is pathetic. 
   My third point is, when we talk about block granting and patterning it after the welfare bill, the TANF experience, there is not a shred of evidence to support that. Whatever evidence we have would make us very weary of doing so, especially if we are concerned about how poor and vulnerable children might fare. 
   My fourth point is, the Workforce Investment Act is a great example of a bipartisan approach. I was proud to write that bill with Senator DEWINE. Why didn't we get an elementary and secondary education piece of legislation out here which was bipartisan? We would not have to have any of this debate. 
   Certainly, with the Workforce Investment Act, we did not abandon the idea that when it comes to certain groups of citizens, we make a commitment, and we do not just go straight to a block grant with no standards, no accountability, and no national priorities. 
   What will work is our alternative. My colleague from Arkansas took off after the Senator from Massachusetts--in a civil way; it 
   is just a good debate--and said: Clearly, the Senator from Massachusetts, Mr. KENNEDY, is  for the status quo because he says we should focus on what works. 
   Honest to goodness, this is getting pretty nutty. That is what we should do. If we know that good teachers make for good education, we had better, I say to Senator KENNEDY, focus on what works. If we know that smaller class sizes make a real difference, we had better focus on what works. If we know that investing in crumbling schools makes a difference in terms of building the morale of our children, we had better invest in what works. If we know that programs such as the Eisenhower program for math and science, and other professional development programs, lead to good teachers and good teaching, then we had better be investing our resources in this area. 
   Are my colleagues suggesting that actually we should invest in what we don't know? Are they saying our priorities should reflect what we don't know? Are they saying that because we have an alternative out here which focuses on teacher quality, professional development, a teacher corps to get more teachers in low-income school districts and low-income schools, class size reduction--I am sorry, I forgot parental involvement and investing in dilapidated schools, with some school construction money--all of which are priorities that the people in our States ask us to please focus on, all of which are programs that have a proven record and work, all of which is the direction in which our constituents tell us they want us to go, all of which is about good education for children in our country--that we represent the status quo? If so, I want to be called the ``Status Quo Senator.'' 
   But I will tell you something. If this is just a cute semantics debate, I would rather be on the side of programs that work, I would rather be on the side of good policy, good public policy, than on the side of turning the clock back 35, 40 years to some crude block grant program where all of a sudden we abandon some key national commitments to the most vulnerable citizens and where we are, frankly, unwilling to make the investment in the very decisive priorities and programs that work and really make a positive difference in children's lives. That, to me, colleagues, is what this debate is all about. 
   Because my colleague from Wisconsin is out here, I will just take a couple more minutes. 
   On the parental involvement, I have worked on this. We have been doing some preliminary discussion. One of the things I have worked on is ways in which we can creatively use some of the nongovernmental organizations, community groups that have credibility with parents, to get them more involved. I am excited about that. 
   As long as we talk about welfare, I promise my colleagues, if this bill is out here for a while, I will have this policy evaluation. I am telling you--I say this to Senator JEFFORDS from Vermont--we have to have some honest policy evaluation of what, in fact, is happening because pretty soon we are going to be pushing everybody off the cliff. By the year 2002 there isn't going to be any of this welfare assistance to any families. Let's know what is going on. 
   I will have an amendment that deals with counselors--if it is not 100,000, then 50,000 more counselors--in the country. I tell you that we can do a much better job. The ratio is about 1 counselor per 1,000 students. That does not work. We can do a much better job of having an infrastructure of good counselors in our country that can make a real difference for kids, especially kids who are at risk, especially kids who are struggling with mental health problems. It is terribly important. 
   I will have an amendment that provides some support services for kids who witness violence in their homes. If my wife Sheila were out here on the floor, she would say: PAUL, repeat the statistic again that every 13 seconds a woman is battered in her home. Home should be a safe place. These children see it. They come to school. They have not slept through the night. They are depressed. They act out. They are really struggling. 
   I say to some of the pages, you can imagine what it would be like. I pray it never happens to you. We need to get some support services to those students. 
   I have several amendments that deal with the dicey and tricky question about whether or not we are just going to have standardized tests that hold kids back, as young as age 8, or whether or not we are going to: A, make sure these children have the same opportunities to succeed and pass these tests; B, to take into account learning disabilities or limited English proficiency before we start flunking 8-year-olds in the country; and, C, whether or not we are going to take into account the fact that everybody who works in this field says it is an abuse to rely just on one single standardized test. 
   Then finally, also, I am going to have an amendment that deals with urban education, Ed-plus, which is the counterpart to the rural education initiative, all of which I am for. 
   But we want to make sure--this is what the Democratic alternative includes in it--this recognizes the challenge facing urban schools and enables the urban schools to build on some of these programs with more resources. We need to do that. 
   Mr. President, I conclude with what I think, frankly, is the strongest part of my presentation. This is the accountability provision of S. 2. Wait 5 years and then the Secretary determines, on the basis of the data, that the State has made substantial progress. Substantial progress is not even defined. We do a lot better. 
   Mr. President, the cargo in those yellow school buses is much more precious than all the gold in Fort Knox. We can do better. We can do much better for our children, and our alternative does better for our children. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for 10 seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. A number of Republicans have spoken, four or five in a row. I ask unanimous consent that Senator HARKIN follow the Senator from Minnesota, Mr. GRAMS, and that I be allowed to follow him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank Senator HARKIN for his statement. I am going to build on a couple points he has made. 
   I ask unanimous consent that Senator JOHN KERRY--in the order that has already been established--follow Senator GORTON. I believe Senator GORTON is last on the list, and Senator KERRY wants to be included in that list of speakers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I have a sequence of thoughts I want to put forward, and I will not do this, hopefully, in a haphazard way. I say to Senator HARKIN, since he talked about appropriations, I want to talk about my State of Minnesota and the need for investment in some of these crumbling schools. He is right on the mark. I hear about that all the time. 
   I also want to talk about a wonderful book by Mike Rose called ``Possible Lives'' based upon his experience in classrooms and all the goodness he sees. 
   I agree with the very first point Senator HARKIN made today about what is going on makes sense. But on the appropriations, the Senator from Iowa is right on the mark. Every breed of politician likes to have their picture taken with children. Everybody is for education. Everybody is for the children. Everybody is for the young. They are the future. But it has become symbolic politics. 
   Frankly, I hear a lot of concern about children and education, but the question is whether or not we will dig into our pockets and make some investment. The Senator from Iowa is right on the mark. 
   When I listen to some of my colleagues, I hear them talk about a couple different points. First, I hear them say this piece of legislation represents a step forward and Senator TED KENNEDY somehow represents the past. I thought we were going to have a bipartisan bill, but this piece of legislation before us represents a great step backward. This is not about a step forward;  this is a great step backward. This legislation turns the clock back several decades and basically says no longer do we, as a nation, say we have a commitment to making sure vulnerable children--namely, homeless children; namely, migrant children--will, in fact, get a good education, or that we at least enunciate that as a national goal. We retreat from that in this legislation. 
   With all due respect, there is a reason that we, as the Senate and House of Representatives--the Congress--said we are going to make sure there are some standards, we are going to make sure we live up to this commitment, and that is because, prior to targeting this money with some clear guidance, these children, the most vulnerable children, were left behind. 
   Second, my understanding is the National Governors' Association has said, when it comes to title I, they want to keep it targeted. This particular piece of legislation is so extreme that it even gets away from the targeting of title I money. 
   Third, to go to Senator HARKIN's point about appropriations, when I hear my colleagues on the other side talk about how we want change, we want to close the learning gap, we want to make sure poor children do as well, that children of color do as well, this piece of legislation is the agent of change, and we are for change, change, change, the question I 
   ask is: If that is the case, then--I said this the other day--why don't we get serious about being a player in prekindergarten? 
   With all due respect, most of K-12 is at the State level. As a matter of fact, if we are going to say--Senator HARKIN made this point--that education is not doing well and they are going to present this indictment of teachers and our educational system, remember that about 93, 94 percent of the investment is at the State level. 
   With all due respect to some colleagues on the floor, when I hear some of the bashing, either explicit or implicit, of education and teachers, I say to myself that some of the harshest critics of public education could not last 1 hour in the classrooms they condemn. 
   If we are serious about this, then why don't we make a real investment in pre-K? It is pathetic what is in this budget when it comes to investing in children before kindergarten. The learning gap is wide by kindergarten, and then those children fall further behind. We could make such a difference. We could decentralize it and get it down to the community level, and we could make a real difference. But no, that is not in this bill or any piece of legislation from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. 
   Senator HUTCHINSON, a friend--we disagree, but we like each other--talked about how the bill, S. 2, provides title I money for all the children in the country. I do not get that. I do not know how it can. Right now, we have an appropriation that provides funding for--what, I ask Senator HARKIN--about 30 percent of the children that will be available? Fifty percent? I do not see in the budget proposal or in any appropriations bills that are coming from the Republican majority a dramatic or significant increase in that investment at all. 
   If my colleagues want to present a critique of what is going on, let me just give you some figures from my friend Jonathan Kozol who just sent me the Chancellor's 60-day report on New York City Public Schools. It is pretty interesting. In New York City, they are able to spend per year, per pupil, on average, $8,171. Fishers Island is $24,000, rounding this up; Great Neck, $17,000; White Plains, $16,000; Roslyn, $16,000; and other communities, $20,000, $21,000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Per student, two times and three times the amount. 
   Here is another interesting figure. This is median teacher salaries. In the Democratic proposal--I will be honest about it, I cannot help it. I do not think the administration's proposal is great. I do not think we should be talking about their proposal when it comes to early childhood development. 
   I would like to see much more in education. But I think with what we have heard on the floor, I say to Senator HARKIN, is that the investment in rebuilding our crumbling schools, the focus on lowering class size, the focus on having good teachers and making sure we put money into professional development basically is eliminated. 
   I hear some of my colleagues--I think the Senator from Alabama--talking about how poor we are performing in mathematics. The Eisenhower program, a great professional development program--teachers in Minnesota love this program--is eliminated. 
   This is pretty interesting. For New York City and in surrounding counties: The median teacher salary in New York City is $47,345; the median teacher salary in Nassau County is $66,000; in County, it is $67,000; in Westchester, it is $68,400. 
   Jonathan Kozol can send me these figures because he wrote the book ``Savage Inequalities.'' But with all due respect to my colleagues, if you are concerned about the learning gap, if you are concerned about the tremendous disparity in opportunities of students in our country--and all too often students are able to do well or not do well because of income or race--then we would want to make sure we live up to the opportunity-to-learn standard, where every child has an opportunity to learn and do well. 
   If that was the case, we would be talking about the whole problem of financing, which is based so much on the wealth of the school district; we would be talking about incentives for the best students, and incentives for executives and people in other areas of life who are in their 50s who want to go into teaching, all of whom can go into teaching; we would be talking about a massive investment, the equivalent of a national defense act, when it comes to child care; we would be talking about afterschool programs; we would be talking about investing in the crumbling infrastructure of our schools. 
   I do not see it in this piece of legislation. I said it yesterday, and I will say it one more time: I do not see it in the Ed-Flex bill. 
   I said it last time, and I will say it again, that when I am in Minnesota and I am in cafes and I am talking to people, nobody has ever come running up to me saying: I need Ed-Flex. They do not even know what it is. But they sure talk about the holes in the ceilings or the inadequate wiring or the schools that do not have heating. They talk about how terrible it is that kids go into those schools. It tells those kids that we do not care about them. They sure talk about all these other issues. 
   I will conclude in a moment, but this is for the sake of further debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, we have had some important litigation that I know he is familiar with, some really important Supreme Court decisions in the past on this question. 
   The challenge is this. The 14th amendment talks about equal protection under the law. I think many of us believe that when the education a child receives is so dependent upon the wealth or lack of wealth of the community he or she lives in, that that isn't equal protection under the law because a good education is so important to be able to do well and to fully participate in the economic and political life of our country. 
   So the answer is, it is extremely unfortunate that we rely so much on the property tax system. If my colleagues want to present a critique of public education, they ought to look back to the States. 
   I say to my colleague from Iowa, I love being a Senator. I do not mean this in a bashing way. But Washington, DC and the Senate is the only place I have ever been where when people talk about grassroots, they say: Let's hear from the Governors. They say: The grassroots is here. The Governors' Association has just issued a statement. 
   Boy, I tell you, I don't hear that in Minnesota or in any other State I have  been in. People tend to view the grassroots as a little bit more down to the neighborhood, the community level. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I thank him for mentioning Jonathan Kozol because I love him. I believe in him. The last book he wrote--although he has another book that is now coming out--that was published--and my colleague may very well have read it--is called ``Amazing Grace: Poor Children and the Conscience of America.'' 
   If you read that book, the sum total of that book is that any country that loved and cared about children would never let children grow up under these conditions and never abandon these children in all the ways we have. I say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, there is precious little, if anything--precious little; I do not want to overstate the case--in S. 2 that speaks to that question. 
   When you get to where the rubber meets the road, and the budget proposal we have and, therefore, the appropriations bills we will have, are we going to see any of the kind of investment that deals with any of these conditions which are so important in assuring that all the children in this country have a chance to succeed? The answer is no. The answer is no, no, no. 
   I will finish up because I see my colleague from New Mexico is on the floor. I know others want to speak. 
   Two final, very quick points. One, I want to speak to Senator HUTCHINSON's example. Again, he is not here. He is very good at making his arguments. I know he will have a counterpoint, so I am not going to present this as: You are 
    wrong; you were inaccurate. But Senator HUTCHINSON came out with graphics about gym facilities, workout equipment. It looked like a Cybex system. He was basically saying: Here you have, in a school that has a decaying infrastructure, this beautiful workout facility; this is an outrage because basically this is what we have right now with this Federal bureaucracy which dictates, hey, this is where you can get the money. 
   I say that I know of no Federal grant program that requires any school to purchase exercise equipment. I do not know whether this was a part of an afterschool program or part of another program in which perhaps the school officials decided this is what they needed for the community. But that is a very different point. 
   But I want to make it clear--and Senator HUTCHINSON may be able to add to the RECORD and make it perfectly clear that what I have said is not perfectly clear--I do not have any knowledge --I wanted to ask him about this--of any Federal grant program that would require a school to purchase this equipment. I think that is important. 
   Finally, I have heard my colleagues talk about bureaucracy and all of the rest. I find it interesting that when I look at the opposition, and I see the National Association of Elementary School Principals or the National Association of Secondary School Principals, much less the American Federation of Teachers, the National Education Association, the Council of the Great City Schools--these people do not work at the Federal level; these people are down there in the trenches--the National Association of Secondary School Principals or the National Association of Elementary School Principals--we are talking about men and women who have a great deal of knowledge about what is working and what isn't working. I think that we might want to take heed of their opposition to this bill 
    because we are not talking about bureaucrats; we are talking about teachers, about principals. I don't know where the PTA is. I think they are also in opposition. 
   So for the record, I will concede--and Senator DOMENICI is great in debate, and he will jump up and debate me--that the National PTA--and he says I am right--doesn't represent all the parents, and I concede that the teachers unions don't represent all the teachers, and I concede the Association of Secondary School Principals, or Elementary School Principals, don't represent all the principals at either level; but you have to admit that these people, these organizations, do represent a considerable number of principals. They do represent a lot of teachers. They do represent a lot of people who work there at the school level. I find it interesting that they oppose this bill. They don't see this bill as a great step forward for education or for the children they represent. 
   So for my colleague from New Mexico, after 30 seconds I will yield the floor. In that 30 seconds, I say to the majority leader, let's have at it. Let's have the amendments out here and let's have a good debate. Let's not fold after 2 or 3 days. This is a major bill. I remember, when I first came here, we had major bills out on the floor and we took 2 weeks, and we might have 60, 70, or 80 amendments. We worked from the morning until the evening. Let's do it. 
   I have a number of amendments that I think would make a difference for the children in my State and in other States. Other Senators have amendments. But, for gosh sakes, let's allow the Senate to be at its best and not insist that we have only a few amendments and that will be it, and then we basically shut this down. The people in the country want us to have the debate. I think it is important to do so. People also want to see some good legislation. This bill, in its present form, is not good legislation, in my view. I think it is fundamentally flawed. I don't think it represents anywhere close to the best of what we can do as a Senate. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we are going to have a hearing before the health committee. I think we both thank Senator JEFFORDS and we are ready to move it forward. It is great to have a chance to work with the Senator on this. I wish he wasn't wrong on every other issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague from Vermont whether or not after the Senator from New Mexico speaks he could be followed by the Senator from Tennessee, and I follow the Senator from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that following the Senator from New Mexico, the Senator from Tennessee proceed and I follow the Senator from Tennessee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that following the Senator from New Mexico, the Senator from Tennessee speak, I follow the Senator from Tennessee, and then the Senator from Rhode Island speak unless there is a Republican, and then we go back and forth, and then the Senator from Rhode Island will speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair and say to my colleague from Vermont I will try to stay under 3 hours. 
   Madam President, I, too, think we can do better by our children. It pains me a little bit to say what I am about to say--not for 3 hours--because I respect the chairman of our committee, Senator JEFFORDS of Vermont. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, as much as I respect my colleague from Vermont holding up the standard that we can do better for our children, holding up the standard that we need somehow to renew our national vow of equal opportunity for every child, I do not believe this piece of legislation represents the change I have been hearing about. I do not believe S. 2 represents a great step forward for children in our country, especially vulnerable children. I think this piece of legislation, S. 2, represents not a great leap forward but a great leap backwards. 
   I come to the floor as a Senator from Minnesota to speak against this legislation in its present form because I was a teacher for 20 years, a college teacher, before becoming a U.S. Senator. Education is my passion. I speak against S. 2 because I have been in a school every 2 weeks since I was elected almost 10 years ago. I love teaching. I love being in schools. Today I was at a rally at the State capitol in Minnesota with some great students from all around Minnesota who are seeing cuts in their school districts, teachers being eliminated, extra curricular activities eliminated, larger class sizes, and course offerings being eliminated. 
   I come to the floor to speak against this legislation because I believe the goodness of our country is to make sure that every child has the same opportunity to reach her or his full potential, and education is the foundation of this opportunity. This piece of legislation does not represent a step forward. It is turning the clock back 30, 40 years. That is unacceptable to me as a Senator. 
   This bill is fundamentally flawed because of the programs that it block grants. There is a reason why we made a commitment to migrant education. There is a reason why we made a commitment to homeless children. There is a reason why we made a specific commitment with accountability standards to make sure that title I works for children who are disadvantaged and they can do better in school. There is a reason why these are categorical programs. There is a reason why we have set some standards. 
   The reason is, the House of Representatives and the Senate decided that we are a national community as well as States. And as a national community, we make a commitment in the House and the Senate that no child, no matter how poor or how vulnerable, no matter the son or daughter of migrant farm workers or a child who is homeless or a child who is living in an inner-city or rural neighborhood that is poor, it makes no difference; those children will also receive assistance. There will be standards. That is a national decision because we are a national community. This piece of legislation throws that out. 
   Some of my colleagues come to the floor and say: We are for change. What kind of change? 
   Pretitle I, to give but one example, we had the example of school districts using this money to purchase football uniforms, band uniforms, swimming pools, and all of the rest. That is why we decided we were not going to block grant this money. That is why we decided we were going to make sure the title I money went for the children who needed the help. 
   I had hoped we would not have this crude block grant program that turns the clock back 30 years plus. I thought we would start out with a bipartisan bill. That is not the direction we have gone. 
   This turns the clock back. This basically says, if you are a child of a mother who is homeless and your mother doesn't have much clout, if you are the child of migrant farm workers and they don't have much political power, or you are the child of parents who are poor and they don't have much clout, it doesn't matter what the State you are living in decides to do. The Governors are free to spend the money however they want. That is what this legislation says in its present form. 
   That is not a step forward. That is a step backward. That is a step backward from the national commitment we have made as the House of Representatives and Senate, that all the children 
   in this country, including vulnerable children, will have a chance to do well. 
   I have heard my colleagues say: I hope we get into some real debate; I will be pleased to yield for a question any time. Well, we need to do this because we have had 30 or 40 years of these programs, going back to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Look at the statistics. We haven't seen any change. There are too many children of color and too many poor children and too many children with limited English proficiency who are not doing well. Now we bring a bill to the floor that is going to make things much better. 
   Give me a break. When I am in communities talking to students and parents, talking to people in schools, nobody ever comes up to me and says: Can we have more Ed-Flex? They don't even know what it is. Hardly any States have even applied for it. They don't talk to me about Ed-Flex, Flex-Flex, flexibility. 
   They say: Why doesn't the Federal Government make a commitment to pre-K, since most of K through 12 is us? Why don't you adequately fund good developmental child care so when children come to kindergarten they are ready to learn, and we don't have this huge learning gap where some children are way behind, then fall further behind, then drop out, then wind up in prison? Why don't you get real and invest in developmental child care? 
   Not with this budget from this majority. And, by the way, not with the budget proposal from this President. We haven't made this commitment. 
   We say we have S. 2 out here because this is for change, to make things better for these children. If we want to make things better for the children, why don't we fully fund the IDEA program so that our school districts don't have to fill in the void? Let's fully fund it. Let's get real about the actual investment of dollars. Why do we not fully fund the title I program? We are funding title I at about a 30-percent level. 
   When I am in St. Paul or Minneapolis, to use two cities in my State--and I could talk about other communities--I don't have parents and teachers and others rushing up to me saying: We need more Ed-Flex. 
   They say to me: After you get to the schools that don't have at least 65 percent of the students poor, those schools get no funding at all because we have run out of title I funding for children who come from backgrounds of difficult circumstances, come to school  ill-prepared, are behind, need additional help. We fund this program at the 30-percent level, to the point where at the schools in our cities in my State, if they don't have at least a 65-percent low-income student population, they don't receive any funding. 
   When I talk to people in Minnesota, they ask me: Can we get the best teachers? What does this legislation do about getting the best teachers into teaching? Can we figure out creative ways of having more parental involvement? Can we have smaller class size? Can we focus on good professional development for teachers? Maybe the money could be used for the Eisenhower programs for math and science, but we eliminate the program. The Eisenhower Program has been a huge success. In fact, I would like to do more of it. I would like to have money designated for professional development. The original National Defense Education Act had those summer institutes for teachers, and they were great. Teachers loved getting together. They loved comparing notes. They revitalized one another with new approaches to teaching, new pedagogy, new substantive matter. It was great. 
   I hear about that. In Minnesota, I also hear about--and I know it is true in every State--decaying infrastructure, crumbling schools. The argument is, can we figure out a way of having more dollars to rebuild our schools? S. 2 doesn't speak to any of these issues. 
   I wish to make a couple of other points. One of them is that I have heard colleagues talk about flexibility, and this is, I will admit, more a State issue. I don't know quite how we leverage it at the Federal level. But Jonathan Kozol has done a wonderful work called ``Amazing Grace: The Lives of Children and the Conscience of a Nation''--and he has written another book and he sent me some data from New York--which says the difference between what New York City spends per pupil is about $8,000 per year per pupil and the suburbs range from $16,000 to $23,000 to $24,000 a year--two and three times as much. Jonathan Kozol's earlier book was called ``Savage Inequalities.'' 
   So we do not, in this piece of legislation, make sure we live up to our commitment that there should be equal opportunity for every child and that we should do all we can to make sure poor children and vulnerable children have those opportunities. 
   We do precious little to deal with the savage inequalities about which Kozol talks. We have been shameful in our lack of investment, and I know the Senator from Vermont is all for this; he has been an outspoken proponent for this. But in our shameful lack of investment in early childhood development, we don't fully fund the IDEA program, Children With Disabilities, and we don't come close to fully funding the title I program. In addition, this piece of legislation shows no strong, unequivocal, positive commitment to how we get the great teachers into our schools, how we reduce the class size, how we invest in crumbling schools, how we make sure parents are involved, how we deal with the digital divide, how we make sure schools have adequate resources, how we make sure children do well before they go to school and when they go home. It is just not here. 
   So this piece of legislation is lacking in two fundamental respects: A, it is not a great step forward; it is a great leap backward. It turns the clock back from a commitment to vulnerable, poor children in America. I will oppose it with all my might for that reason, with its block grant. B, it doesn't, in the affirmative, authorize or talk about the kind of investment or funding in the decisive areas that would be so important to change so that we could do even better as a nation. 
   Madam President, I wanted to mention a couple of amendments that I have, and then I want to make a plea to the majority leader--not to the chair of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. 
   I will have an amendment that expresses the sense of the Congress that States and districts that use standardized tests to make high-stakes decisions about students should be professional standards on educational testing. It should not really be controversial, I hope. But I think we have to make sure these tests are used well. I am going to call for a study on the impact of high-stakes testing policies on students, teachers, and curriculum because I am very worried that when we start using single standardized tests to determine whether a third grader goes to fourth grade, what kind of reading group you are in, whether you graduate, and all the rest, and we have done little to make sure every child has the same opportunity to actually pass the test, what we have done is put the 
   responsibility on kids and students for our failure to invest in their future and their achievement. So I think we at least ought to do a study. We ought to have an understanding. 
   I will have an amendment making it clear that if States and school districts use standardized tests to make the high-stakes decisions--I am all for testing for diagnostic purposes--to determine whether a student graduates or goes from one grade to another, at the very minimum, appropriate accommodations must be made for language proficiency and students with disabilities. 
   There will be an amendment I am going to sort of dedicate to my friend Paul Simon, who is no longer in the Senate. We did this together. It authorizes grants to urban school districts so they can implement any of the following programs in innovative ways to help eliminate the learning gap, as it affects children of color and the poor, and that could be the McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, Professional Development Act, the Immigrant Education program, or the Class Size Reduction Program. The Presiding Officer has done a good job of making sure we keep the rural piece in, and I am in full accord with that. I want to make sure we also keep in the urban piece. 
   I will have an amendment about which I was talking to my friend, Senator COVERDELL from Georgia, which I think is extremely important, to provide some support for children who witness violence at home. Every 13 seconds a woman is battered in her home. These children don't see the violence in the movies or on television; they see it in their living rooms. It has a devastating effect on their performance at school, and quite often in our schools we don't even know what is happening with these kids. I want to get some support services for them so they can do better. 
   I have an amendment to recruit and train highly qualified teachers for high-poverty urban and rural schools. This would provide $500 million to fund a collaborative between State education agencies, local education agencies, and institutes of higher education. This is how we can recruit people, whether they are right out of college or whether they are people who make a lateral change at age 40 or 50 and want to teach in schools. We want to get the training to them and have the mentoring. We want to have the internships, and we want to get this kind of talent into our schools, especially those schools with a large low-income student population. 
   I will have an amendment that calls for local family information centers. This would expand the Parent Information and Research Center Program in title I to include nonprofit organizations. Sometimes the way we can reach some of the hard-to-reach parents is to get them involved through some of the nonprofits in the community. I think there can be good, bipartisan support for this. 
   I will have an amendment that provides seed money for schools to hire more counselors for mental health services. In my State of Minnesota, the ratio is 1 counselor for every 1,000 students. Indeed, many of those counselors are trained more to what college or university you go to, or, if you don't go on to college, what kinds of jobs will be available. What about the kids who have mental health needs? How are we going to be able to recognize these kids who are struggling and get help to them? 
   How are we going to tell them? That is a hugely important issue. 
   I am going to have an amendment that provides seed money for counselors. I am not sure how many. I am going to figure out exactly the amendment that I think has the best chance of passing so we can make a good start in this area. 
   Finally, I am going to have an amendment I offered before. I will not spend much time on it. We had a vote on it. I want it to be on the record that  I want some historian to include me in a small footnote that we have not done the policy evaluation of ``welfare reform.'' We really do not know where these mothers are. We don't know what kind of jobs they have. We don't know whether the family has had medical assistance. We don't know why there is a dramatic decline in food stamp participation. We don't know what the child care situation is with their kids. We need to know, especially since in the next 2 years all of these families are going to be off assistance and we are going to be pushing a lot of vulnerable people off the cliff. I want some policy evaluation. 
   Nobody can tell me this has nothing to do with education because when children are hungry, they don't do well in school. When children come to school with an abscessed tooth because they have no health care or dental care, they don't do well in school. When the child care situation is miserable--it ranges from downright dangerous to not even adequate--those children come to kindergarten way behind. I have an amendment that calls for this policy evaluation. 
   I say to the Senator from Vermont that I am not going to go on for 2 hours. But this is an important bill for me. I will probably take 5 or 10 minutes. I will save him having to get up all the time. I will be finished. But I don't want too much pressure on me to be finished because then I will just get started again. 
   I want to conclude with this appeal to my colleagues on the other side. 
   I have stated the reasons for my opposition. Senator GREGG of New Hampshire will be out here. He will be a powerful advocate for a different position. I hope we will have at it. We can do it with civility. We can be formal. Presumably we have respect for one another. But let's have at it. Let's come out here and let the Senate operate as the Senate operates at its best. Let's start bringing amendments out here. Let's have up-or-down votes on amendments. If we need to start early in the morning, let's start early in the morning. If we need to go not until midnight out into the evening, great. Let's work. 
   This is a major bill. I think we all agree that there is no more important issue. Frankly, the Federal role is critical. This piece of legislation is critical. Let's have at it. It is not atypical when you have a bill of this importance. 
   I was talking to my colleague from Georgia about this. You have a bill out on the floor for a couple of weeks. That would be good. I wouldn't be at all surprised if there were 90 or 100 amendments. I remember during my earlier years, it happened all the time. Amendments fall off, or people bring amendments out, and people agree to time limits. Let's go at it. Let's have the debate. Let's make sure it is a substantive debate. 
   I have a number of amendments. Other Senators have amendments. That is the way you operate as a Senator. That is how you can make a difference. That is how you can try to 
   follow up on what people in your State have told you about some of the needs and gaps. That is how you can try to be a good Senator. Let's do it. 
   We will take a couple of weeks with this. Then we will pass a bill, or we will defeat a bill, or it will be similar to what it is now, or it will be dramatically changed. But I think the country is ready for that. 
   I think the country is ready for us to have substantive debate. I think it is ready for us to be out here on the floor working. It is ready for us to be talking about what we believe--I think the Senator from Rhode Island will agree--would be best for education in our States and how we can contribute. It wants that discussion. That is why we are here. I hope we will do that. 
   I hope the majority leader will not come out here in 2 days, which has been the typical fashion--I am not talking behind his back; I have said this over and over again--and say: I don't like these amendments that deal with how you get guns out of schools; I don't like this amendment and, I don't like that amendment; these amendments aren't relevant; only if you agree to the following four or five or six amendments, or whatever, do we go forward. And we say: Absolutely not. We are here as Senators. We have amendments. We are ready to work for people in our State. Then cloture is filed. If there is not cloture, the bill is pulled. 
   I don't think it is a very good bill. So in one sense, I wouldn't be unhappy with that result. But as a Senator, I would be unhappy with the result. I want to go forward. I want to have the debate. I want to have at this legislation for a couple of weeks. I want us to consider the amendments out here. I say to the majority leader what I have said twice now: You suck the vitality out of the Senate when you don't let people come out here and offer their amendments and have this debate. We are at our best when we do that, I think. 
   I am all set to go. I am in profound opposition to this legislation. I think it is a profound mistake. One person's solution is another person's horror. The Senator from New Hampshire thinks it is just the opposite. That is fine. He will state it well. Let's have opening statements. Let's get to the amendments. Let's have debate. And let's move forward. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to follow Senator FEINSTEIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me say to the Senator from California I really appreciate her work. I not only heard what she said but I feel what she said and I would like to be counted as a supporter. If she needs to do the filibuster, I know how to do that. I will be out here with her. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 300, introduced earlier today by myself.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution that I will soon send to the desk to proclaim April 23-30, 2000, as ``Shaken Baby Syndrome Awareness Week'', and to recognize the many groups, particularly the Shaken Baby Alliance, who support this effort to increase awareness of one of the most unspeakable forms of child abuse, one that results in the death or lifelong disability of thousands of children each year. 
   For the past twenty years, the current President of the United States has designated one month each year as National Child Abuse Prevention Month to increase awareness of the devastating harm done to our children by abuse and neglect. This year, April, 2000, is National Child Abuse Prevention Month, and it began with the release of a national survey conducted by the group, Prevent Child Abuse America. The survey showed that more than 50% of all Americans believe child abuse and neglect is the most important public health issue facing this country. The survey also showed that a vast majority of Americans--83 percent--believe that child abuse prevention efforts can be most successful before such behavior has begun, rather than waiting until the abuse has occurred. These results point to the need to recognize child abuse and neglect as the public health problem it is, one that is linked with a host of other problems facing our country, including poverty and drug and alcohol addiction, and one that needs the comprehensive approach of our entire public health system to solve. 
   The need for this widespread and high level concern is well-documented. The most recent government figures show that over 1 million children were victims of abuse in 1997. Each day, three of these children die as a result of this abuse. The U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect reported in ``A Nation's Shame: Fatal Child Abuse and Neglect in the United States,'' that a more realistic estimate of annual child deaths as a result of abuse and neglect, both known and unknown to Child Protective Service agencies, is closer to 2,000, or approximately five children per day. The rate of child fatalities caused by abuse has risen by 37 percent between 1985 and 1997, with children aged 3 and younger accounting for 77 percent of these fatalities. Because of the problems of under-reporting and errors in diagnoses, the National Center for Prosecution of Child Abuse believes that the number of child deaths from maltreatment per year may be as high as 5,000. In most cases, the child's death is the result of head trauma, including the trauma known as Shaken Baby Syndrome (SBS). 
   Shaken Baby Syndrome results from a caregiver losing control and shaking a baby, usually an infant who is less than 1 year old. This severe shaking can kill the baby, or it can cause loss of vision, brain damage, paralysis, and seizures, resulting in lifelong disabilities. This totally preventable form of child abuse causes untold grief for many families whose child dies, or is left with permanent, irreparable brain damage. The care for the child's resulting disability is estimated at more than $1 million in medical costs during just the first few years of the baby's life. 
   The most effective solution to ending Shaken Baby Syndrome is to prevent such abuse, and it is clear that the minimal costs of educational and prevention programs may help to protect our young children and stop this tragedy from occurring. In 1995, the U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect recommended a universal approach to the prevention of child fatalities that would reach out to all families through the implementation of several key strategies. Such efforts began by providing services such as home visitation by trained professionals or paraprofessionals, hospital-linked outreach to parents of infants and toddlers, community-based programs designed for the specific needs of neighborhoods, and effective public education campaigns. 
   Child abuse prevention programs have been shown to raise awareness and provide critically important information about Shaken Baby Syndrome and other forms of abuse to parents, caregivers, day care workers, child protection employees, law enforcement personnel, health care professionals, and legal representatives. Many prevention programs now include not only information about the dangers of shaking babies and how to cope with crying, but also address issues of anger management, stress reduction, appropriate expectations of children, and specific information on why shaking or impact can interrupt early brain development. Education programs for judges and others in the judicial system are also beneficial for SBS criminal cases. Ultimately, the education of all will help us reach a critical goal of zero tolerance toward shaking, a goal that will help to save children's lives. 
   The prevention of Shaken Baby Syndrome is supported by groups such as the Shaken Baby Alliance, an organization which began with 3 mothers of children who had been diagnosed with Shaken Baby Syndrome, and whose mission is to educate the general public and professionals about Shaken Baby Syndrome, and to increase support for victims and victim families in the health care and criminal justice systems. In my own state of Minnesota, the Shaken Baby Alliance is represented by the outstanding efforts of Kim Kang, whose daughter Rachel was diagnosed in 1995 with Shaken Baby Syndrome, after being violently shaken by a day care provider. My heart goes out to her family, and to all of the families who deal with the results of Shaken Baby Syndrome and all other forms of child abuse and neglect. Child abuse and neglect is a scourge on our country, and we must do more to prevent the damage done to our children, our families, and our society as a result of child abuse, and to help those who suffer its consequences. 
   Shaken Baby Syndrome Awareness Week is supported by the Shaken Baby Alliance, Children's Defense Fund, American Academy of Pediatrics, Child Welfare League of America, Prevent Child Abuse America, Brain Injury Association, National Child Abuse Coalition, National Exchange Club Foundation, and many other organizations including the National Basketball Association, which is sponsoring a series of ``NBA Child Abuse Prevention Awareness Nights 2000'' events to generate public awareness about the issue of child abuse and neglect during National Child Abuse Prevention Month 2000. 
   I urge the Senate to adopt this resolution designating the week of April 23-30, 2000, as ``Shaken Baby Syndrome Awareness Week'', and to take part in the many local and national activities and events recognizing the month of April as National Child Abuse Prevention Month. 
   This resolution has the support of a number of organizations: Shaken Baby Alliance, Children's Defense Fund, American Academy of Pediatrics, Child Welfare League of America, Prevent Child Abuse America, Brain Injury Association, National Child Abuse Coalition, National Exchange Club Foundation Child Abuse Prevention Program, and many other organizations, including the National Basketball Association, which is sponsoring a series of NBA Child Abuse Prevention Awareness Nights 2000 to generate public awareness of this. 
   I will not read the whole resolution, but I do want to just quickly summarize this. With this designation, we are designating this week, April 23 to 30, 2000, as National Shaken Baby Awareness Week. I do just want to read a few whereas clauses, which are chilling.  
   Whereas head trauma is the leading cause of death of abused children, including the trauma known as Shaken Baby Syndrome; 
   Whereas Shaken Baby Syndrome, which results from the care-giver losing control and shaking a baby usually less than 1 year of age, and can cause loss of vision, brain damage, paralysis, seizures, or death, is a totally preventable form of child abuse; 
   Whereas an estimated 3,000 children are diagnosed with Shaken Baby Syndrome every year, with thousands more misdiagnosed and undetected; 
   Whereas the most effective solution to ending Shaken Baby Syndrome is to prevent such abuse--what we are doing is we are designating this week: 
   Resolved, That the Senate designates the week of April 23-30 as National Shaken Baby Syndrome Awareness Week.   
   Mr. President, I wish I did not have to introduce this resolution. I thank my colleagues for supporting it, but I think all the organizations that are working on this are doing extremely important work. It is hard to believe this happens to infants. It is hard to believe this happens to small children. I certainly cannot say on the floor of the Senate that agreeing to a resolution, ipso facto, ends this practice. But our agreeing to this resolution means a lot to people who have experienced this horror and to people who care deeply about this issue. 
   I thank colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Judiciary Committee be discharged from further consideration of S. Res. 90, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and, finally, any statements there to be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, briefly, in morning business, I want to take 2 minutes to speak to a related topic. I thank, again, the Senate Sergeant at Arms for his leadership, Jim Ziegler. 
   I thank Senator BENNETT for the key appropriations role he plays in his position as chairman. I thank Senator HARRY REID, who I think is the only Senator who has served on the Capitol Hill police force, and there are a good many others as well. 
   I want to, one final time, speak to the issue before us. We lost two fine police officers, Officer Chestnut and Agent Gibson. All of us were affected by this tragedy but, first and foremost, their families. We made a commitment to do everything we could to make sure this never happens again. 
   It is not possible to have any 100-percent guarantee, but we made that commitment, and we certainly need to, therefore, make the commitment by way of spending the money to make sure we have the necessary personnel to have two officers at each one of these posts. Otherwise, if we only have one officer, that officer is in real jeopardy. 
   I say to my colleagues--I will speak on it week after week--I believe we are going to get this done. I know the Capitol Police Union is very active. It is true sometimes two policemen will be on one door, and there will not be that many people entering. The point is, at other times in the day, many people are entering. Even if it is only a few, all it takes--unfortunately, we know this; we have been through this nightmare--is one deranged individual to show up at one of these posts where there is only one officer, or that one deranged individual comes in as 30 or 40 other people are streaming in, and that police officer may not only not be able to defend the public and defend us but may not be able to defend himself or herself. 
   This is no small issue. The request has been made, and it is crystal clear what we need to do. We better live up to our commitment, and we better provide the funding to support the Capitol Hill police. I cannot think of anything more important for us to do internally. 
   I thank my colleagues, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Chair. I want to start out by thanking the Chair for his courtesy. There are many who preside over the Senate who do not always listen to Members during debates while they are on the floor. You are one who does, and I have to thank you for your courtesy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to build on the comments of my colleague, Senator DURBIN--not in a shrill way but I guess in a determined way. 
   A good friend of mine has really become a dear friend. I love his work. Jonathan Kozol wrote a book called ``Amazing Grace: The Lives of Children and the Conscience of a Nation.'' He has now written another book. I think people in the country, as is the case with all of Jonathan's work--and I wouldn't be surprised if the Chair in his commitment to children hasn't read some of his work--have read his work because it is very important. He sent to me yesterday in the mail--I didn't bring it with me to the floor because I didn't realize I had a chance to speak--some data about per pupil expenditures in New York City and surrounding suburbs. 
   The long and the short of it is that the suburbs surrounding the city, because of the wealth of the communities with strong reliance on property taxes, are able to spend about twice as much per pupil as the inner city. Not surprisingly, their teachers are certified and qualified, which is not the case necessarily in the city in terms of having had the experience of certification or expertise in the subject matter. Not surprisingly, therefore, there is tremendous variation in terms of those children and their opportunities to succeed. 
   I raise this question because I hope that soon we will have the Elementary and Secondary Education Act out on the floor. When we do, I hope it will be the Senate at its best. 
   I am going to register the same, if you will, grievance or sharp dissent from the majority leader. I haven't done it behind his back. He knows what my position is about the way we have been operating. 
   I hope when this bill comes to the floor this will not be yet another case of the majority leader essentially saying: Look, only the following amendments will be in order. Any other amendments will not be. What happens is there is no agreement, and the majority leader files cloture. Then cloture is not invoked. Then the bill is pulled. I hope we don't see that. 
   Last week, or the week before our recess, we had this debate over the marriage penalty tax. There were a number of us who wanted to bring out amendments that we thought were terribly important dealing with prescription drug costs. Again, the majority leader said: This isn't relevant, and therefore I choose not to go forward. We had a debate about it and cloture was invoked. We will have that debate again. Or there was an effort to invoke cloture, cloture was not obtained, and the bill was pulled. 
   I think that is what happened, and, as a result, I think the Senate has lost its vitality. 
   I was elected in 1991. Honest to goodness, I think it is the truth. I don't think anybody can present evidence to the contrary. The way I remember it was that up until fairly recently, this was the pattern: A bill would come to the floor. Senators would come with amendments. We might have 60 or 90 amendments. Some would drop off and some of them wouldn't. We could go at it. We would start in the morning, go into the evening, and take a week, or 10 days, or 2 weeks. But we had debates. We had discussion. We had votes. We dealt with issues that were important to people's lives. We voted yes. We voted no. We had some vitality. 
   I say to the majority leader that I believe we have moved away from that to the detriment of this institution. I think we are sucking the vitality out of the Senate by the way we are conducting business. I strongly dissent from the majority leader in the way he has been proceeding. It is true that in this way people do not have to vote on amendments. But what representative democracy is all about is accountability. What the Senate is all about is it is an amendment body. It is a debate body. And individual Senators, whether you have a lot of seniority or whether you don't, can make a difference in the Senate--or could make a difference in the Senate before--because you could bring amendments and have at it. 
   I started out focusing on children and education. I am real interested, as long as we are talking about high standards, in making sure every child has the same opportunity to meet those standards. I would like to talk about that. 
   You and I, Mr. President, talked some about early childhood development and how important it is pre-K. Why isn't the Federal Government more of a player? Why aren't we getting more resources? Your colleague from Ohio feels just as strongly about it. You and I talked about it. Why is it that people working with children ages 3 and 4 do such important work, and then all of their work is so devalued in terms of the pay they make? How can we provide the incentive for men and women to go into the field? 
   I am concerned, as is Senator DURBIN, coming from a State such as mine that only one-third of senior citizens in our State have prescription drug coverage at all. I see it all the time in terms of what this has done to people. It is not atypical to talk to a single elderly woman whose husband has passed away. She might be 75. Her monthly income might be $600 and $300 of it is for prescription drug costs. 
   I want to come out here to talk about a bill Senator DORGAN and I have worked on that would make a huge difference in terms of costs. But, no, we couldn't have that debate. 
   I am from an agricultural State. We have an economic convulsion in agriculture. Many people who I love and respect work so hard. No one can say they don't work hard. 
   It doesn't matter; they can work 19 hours a day. They can be the greatest managers in the world. They are being spit out of the economy and they are losing their farms in this economy. I want to talk about how we can make some changes to the farm bill passed in 1996 called Freedom to Farm--some of us call it ``freedom to fail''--so we can deal with the price crises. I would like to talk about whether we can reach an agreement on the antitrust action so producers can have a level playing field. 
   Mr. President, there are many issues that are important to people's lives, whether people live in metro, urban, rural, or suburban communities. There are many issues that are important to children to make sure that we as a nation at least come closer to reaching our national vow of equal opportunity for every child. There are issues that deal with reform and, God knows, I would think all of us would hate the mix of money in politics. I can't stand raising money. I can't bear it. I hate getting on the phone. I think, systemically, it creates tremendous problems in terms of undercutting representative democracy, where some people have too much access to both parties at an institutional level and too many people don't. 
   I would like to see us focus on reform. I have just mentioned some  issues and I have taken up more than 5 minutes. I make the appeal to the majority leader in particular that we have at it, with the opportunity to bring amendments to the floor. Let's debate and operate the Senate at its best. We can be good Senators and be at our best. Some Senators can be great Senators if they have the opportunity to offer amendments and have adequate debate and vote them up or down and vote the legislation up or down. 
   I am speaking in morning business. I am sick of morning business at quarter to 11. I want a bill out here. I want amendments. I want substantive debate and up-or-down votes, and I want us to be accountable. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to yield 40 minutes of my 60 minutes to the Senator from West Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I am more than pleased to give the Senator from West Virginia a good deal of my time. His words are profoundly important. I do not think there is anybody else in the Senate who can speak on this question the way Senator BYRD can, and I hope Senators hear him. 
   After hearing Senator BYRD, I am going to be very brief. I do not know what I can add to what has been said by other Senators. The way I want to make my argument in just a couple of minutes, actually, is to say this: Senator FEINSTEIN asked me: Do you need to be down on the floor and is it going to be one of these back-and-forth slugfest debates? I said: No, not at all. I do not have any disrespect for what you and Senator KYL are doing, two colleagues whom I like; it is just that, for me, I am reluctant to support any constitutional amendments. 
   The bar is very high. It is a high threshold test to me. Even for such a noble purpose as campaign finance reform, when Senator HOLLINGS offered his amendment, I did not vote for it. I did not vote for a constitutional amendment to ban the desecration of the flag. I believe there have to be compelling reasons to vote for a constitutional amendment, and I do not think my colleagues have made a compelling case. 
   I point out that States have moved forward with their own victims' rights legislation or constitutional amendments and, to my knowledge, their work has not been successfully challenged in the courts. I point out that Senators LEAHY and KENNEDY have legislation that gives victims more rights. They want to do it statutorily. 
   As I see it--and I am not a 
    lawyer--first we go this route and see what the States do. We can also say this is a national concern, a national question. Certainly that is my framework. I do not want to be inconsistent. First we try it statutorily. We pass our law. If the Supreme Court judicial review declares the law to be null and void, then at that point in time we may, indeed, want to come forward and say there is no alternative but to amend the Constitution. 
   The Chair will smile but I am conservative about this question, for all the reasons Senator BYRD has so ably explained to all of us. 
   The second point I wish to make is a little different, and it is my own way of thinking about it. I do believe, if we are going to talk about victims' rights, there is a whole lot I want us to do. I want us out here legislating. I made this argument this morning, and I do not know that I need to make it again. 
   Mr. President, I yield to the Senator from New Mexico for a moment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my second argument is that I want, to the best of my ability, to represent the people in Minnesota, for that matter the people in the country, and I can think of a lot of legislation we could be working on that will give victims more rights. 
   I have legislation I have been trying to get out on the floor which deals with violence against women and children--they are victims--that provides more protection, that can prevent this violence, that can save lives. Let's get at it legislatively. I do not say it so much in response to this effort on the part of my colleagues from California and Arizona, but, again what I was saying this morning, I hope soon we will get back to the vitality of the Senate, which is we go at it; we have legislation; we have vehicles; and we have amendments. We bring legislation to the floor, we debate, and we vote up or down. That is what we are here to do. 
   I say to my colleagues who are concerned about victims' rights, I have legislation I want to bring to the floor that I believe does a whole lot by way of protecting victims, by way of making sure people do not become victims, in particular women and children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, there is a tremendous amount of concern that what will happen is that batterers--and it is happening all too often right now--can accuse those whom they have battered as being the batterers, basically saying they are the victims, which then, in turn, triggers all sorts of rights that are in this amendment. 
   There is tremendous concern, and I will not read through all of it, when it comes to a particular part of the population--women and children who are, unfortunately, the victims of this violence in the homes--that, in fact, this constitutional amendment will have precisely the opposite effect that is intended, especially when it comes to  protection for women and children; it will lessen that protection for women and children. 
   I quote from the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund:  
   While many women are victims of violent crime, women are also criminal defendants. Self-defense cases, dual arrest situations, or the abuse of mandatory arrest and mandatory prosecution policies by batterers who allege abuse by the victim, exemplify contexts in which women victimized by violence may need the vital constitutional protections afforded defendants.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues for their effort. Again, the threshold has to be very high. I speak in opposition. 
   With the indulgence of my colleagues, since I have been out here for a good period of time, I ask unanimous consent that I may have 5 more minutes for morning business to cover two matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have decided now to start speaking about this subject again on the floor of the Senate. I think I will devote only 10 minutes a week on it. But I am going to do it every week. I must say, though, if we continue to operate the way we have been operating, I might as well speak about it much more because while we are dealing with a very serious question now, we are not about the business of legislating. I call on the majority leader to start getting legislation out and going at it on amendments. Let's bring some vitality back to the Senate. 
   I do want to, one more time, say to my colleagues that most all of us attended a service for Officers Chestnut and Gibson. These were two police officers who were murdered. They were murdered in the line of duty. They were protecting us. They were protecting the public. 
   I say to my colleagues one more time, I believe Senator BENNETT and Senator FEINSTEIN on the Senate side are very supportive of doing whatever they can. But up to date, including today again, we have stations here where you have one police officer for lots of people coming through. That police officer is not safe. That police officer cannot do his or her job. 
   We made a commitment to do everything we possibly could to make sure we would never experience again the loss of a police officer's life. We can never be 100 percent sure, but we ought to live up to the commitment to have two police officers at every station.  
   I say this on the floor of the Senate--and I will pick up the pace of this later--if we cannot do 
   that, then we ought to start shutting these doors, really. If we cannot have two officers per station and give them the support they deserve--I am talking about appropriations--then we basically ought to just close the doors. 
   I think on the Senate side we have bipartisan support. I do not know what is happening on the House side. I must say, today I am pessimistic, in terms of what I have heard, that we might even be looking at cuts. But whatever we need to do, whether it be paying overtime or hiring additional officers, we need to do it so we do not lose any lives and we give the Capitol Hill police officers the support that we promised to give them. 
   I say to my colleagues that I am worried that on the House side, in particular, we are not going to get the support. I think it should be bipartisan. I do not think anybody should have any question about this. Everybody says they are for police officers, and everybody says they are for protection and safety, and everybody says they will never forget the two fine officers whose lives were lost, and yet when it comes to digging in our pockets and doing it through appropriations, we are not there. Something is amiss. 
   I will try to keep bringing this up every week and hopefully we can get this work done. 
   I thank my colleagues and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation today, the Prescription Drug Price Equity Act of 2000. My colleague, PETE STARK, a Representative for the State of California in the House of Representatives--I want to give him full credit for having introduced this legislation in the House. I am proud to be a partner with him. 
   The long and the short of it is this bill amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to deny tax benefits for research conducted by pharmaceutical companies where U.S. consumers pay higher prices for the products of that research than consumers in certain other countries, such as Canada. I could go into this in great detail, but I think the operational definition is of 5 percent more. 
   I tell you right now, in my State of Minnesota, seniors and others are in a state of outrage by the fact they can go and buy the same drug--produced in this country, FDA approved--for half the price in another country. 
   If we are going to be giving these tax benefits to these pharmaceutical companies, I think they are going to have to be more concerned about the very public that gives them these benefits. So I introduce this legislation and look forward to support from my colleagues. 
   Mr. President, like the rest of my colleagues I have just returned from a week in my home State of Minnesota. I met with many constituents, but none with more compelling stories than senior citizens struggling to make ends meet because of the high cost of prescription drugs--life-saving drugs that are not covered under the Medicare program. Ten or 20 years ago these same senior citizens were going to work everyday--in the stores, and factories, and mines in Minnesota--earning an honest paycheck, and paying their taxes without protest. Now they wonder, how can this Government--their Government--stand by, when the medicines they need are out of reach. 
   The unfairness which Minnesotans feel is exacerbated of course by the high cost of prescription drugs here in the United States--the same drugs that can be purchased for frequently half the price in Canada or Mexico or Europe. These are the exact same drugs, manufactured in the exact same facilities with the exact same safety precautions. A year ago, most Americans did not know that the exact same drugs are for sale at half the price in Canada. Today, you can bet the pharmaceutical industry wishes no one knew it. But the cat is out of the bag--and it is time for Congress to right the inequities that are rife in the way the United States government interacts with the pharmaceutical industry. 
   Today, I want to focus on one of those inequities--the subsidies that the United States Government offers to pharmaceutical manufacturers to develop drugs which these same companies proceed to sell to the American people at up to twice the price they charge in other countries. To combat that problem I am introducing today the Prescription Price Equity Act of 2000, a bill to deny research tax credits to pharmaceutical companies that sell their products at significantly higher prices in the U.S. as compared to other industrialized countries. 
   The need for this bill is clear. The U.S. Government provides lucrative tax credits to the pharmaceutical industry in this country in order to promote research and development of new lifesaving pharmaceutical products. Yet, in return for these government subsidies, the drug companies charge uninsured Americans the highest prices for drugs paid by anyone in the world. 
   The Congressional Research Service recently completed an analysis of the tax treatment of the pharmaceutical industry. That analysis concluded that tax credits were a major contribution to lowering the average effective tax rate for drug companies by nearly 40 percent relative to other major industries from 1990 to 1996. Specifically, the report found that while similar industries pay a tax rate of 27.3 percent, the pharmaceutical industry is paying a rate of only 16.2 percent. At the same time, after-tax profits for the drug industry averaged 17 percent--three times higher than the 5 percent profit margin of other industries. 
   It is time for the pharmaceutical industry to earn these tax benefits--by offering their life saving drugs to America's seniors at the same prices they charge in other countries. 
   Numerous studies have shown that uninsured seniors pay exorbitant prices for pharmaceuticals. Surveys done by the Minnesota Senior Federation on the prices of the most commonly used drugs by Medicare beneficiaries found that in Minnesota, seniors pay on average about twice the price that Canadian seniors just across the border pay for the exact same medication. I know that the House Government Reform Committee compared prices of prescription drugs in the numerous districts around the country with the prices of prescription drugs in Canada. Those comparisons found price differentials in the exact same ballpark that we found in 
   Minnesota. It is no wonder that Minnesota seniors are willing to spend their time and money to go across the border to buy their prescription medications. And the same is happening all over New England, in the Dakotas, in Montana, in Washington state, and elsewhere. 
   Yet, at the same time that seniors are being asked to pay these outrageous prices, the drug companies are reaping the benefit of generous governmental subsidies. There's something wrong with a system that gives drug companies huge tax breaks while allowing them to price-gouge seniors. The Prescription Price Equity Act of 2000 attempts to correct this glaring inequity in a very even-handed approach. The message to pharmaceutical companies is this: So long as your company gives U.S. consumers a fair deal on drug prices as measured against the same products sold in other OECD countries, you will continue to qualify for all available research tax credits. But if your company is found to be fleecing American taxpayers with prices higher than those charged for the same product sold in other industrialized countries, like Japan, Germany, Switzerland, or Canada, then you become ineligible for those tax credits. 
   I know that the pharmaceutical industry, through its trade association, PhRMA, will oppose the Prescription Price Equity Act and will claim that the bill means the end of pharmaceutical research and development. That is complete nonsense. As shown by Congressional Research Service, drug industry profits are already three times higher than all other major industries. This legislation doesn't change the current system of research tax credits at all unless drug companies refuse to fairly price their U.S. products. This bills intent is by no means to reduce the U.S. Government's role in promoting research and development. It is simply to make clear that in return for such significant government contributions to their industry, drug companies must treat American consumers fairly. Is there any reason why U.S. tax dollars should be used to allow drug prices to be reduced in other highly developed countries, but not here at home as well? Of course there is no good reason for that. 
   That is why this bill simply tells PhRMA that U.S. taxpayers will no longer subsidize low prices in the OECD countries with our tax code. Research and development is important and that is why we give these huge tax breaks, but that research and development does little good for U.S. consumers who can't afford to buy the products of that research. 
   This bill does not solve the biggest underlying problem that America's senior citizens face. Only a comprehensive, prescription drug benefit, available to and affordable by all Medicare beneficiaries will do that. I have introduced and cosponsored legislation that can make that happen. But this bill, the Prescription Price Equity Act, nonetheless, sends an important message. It makes clear that the priority of the Federal Government in subsidizing research and development is to make sure that the miracles of modern medicine that result are at least equally available to American citizens as  they are to those in the rest of the industrialized world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from New Jersey. 
   We have an economy that is booming. We have record low levels of unemployment. We have Government coffers that are overflowing. We have a predicted $3 trillion surplus over the next 10 years. 
   We are still being told by this budget resolution that we can't afford in our country to provide a good education for every child; we can't afford good health care for citizens; we can't afford to do something about the poverty of 14 million children in our country. 
   In the words of Rabbi Hill, ``If not now, when?'' This Republican budget resolution provides a very discouraging answer to Rabbi Hill's question. This budget resolution says to Rabbi Hill, ``Not now and probably not ever.'' 
   The tradeoff is simple. You have huge tax cuts disproportionately flowing to wealthier, high-income citizens. You have in a post-world-war era a bloated military budget. But you have a budget resolution that does not invest in the health, the skill, the intellect, and the character of our children, and you have a budget resolution that in nondefense discretionary spending calls for cuts with a booming economy. 
   We will see cuts in Head Start, new teachers, reducing class size, home-delivered meals to seniors, and environmental cleanup. 
   We will not do well in this new century, and we will not have the successful economy or the successful moral nation Senator GRAHAM talks about, if we don't provide a good education for every child. We will not do as well as we can do as a nation in this new century if we don't invest in the skills development of our children. We will not  do as well as we could and must do as a nation and national community if we don't invest in the health of our children. We, the United States of America, the good country, will not be better unless we make this investment in our children. By that standard, this budget is sorely lacking. I will vote against it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor today to recognize the numerous contributions that millions German-Americans have made to the United States, and introduce a resolution to designate the Hermann Monument in New Ulm, Minnesota, a national monument. 
   German-Americans have been an integral part of American history, shaping our artistic, cultural, military and political foundations. Friedrich Muhlenbert, the first Speaker of the House of Representatives, baseball great Babe Ruth, and artist Oscar Hammerstein are just three out of millions of German-Americans who have contributed to the creation of a diverse American culture. Today, German-Americans compose nearly 25% of the American population, making them the largest ethnic group in the United States. Despite this vast number of German-Americans and the significant impact they have had on all facets of American life, unfortunately there is no nationally recognized symbol honoring German-Americans. 
   The Hermann Monument provides us with an opportunity as a nation to recognize the contributions of German-Americans, past and present. The monument is a unique copper statue of Hermann the Cheruscan, created in 1889 as a tribute to the struggle and triumph of German immigrants who came to the United States. The Hermann monument has become a symbol of unity and endurance to all American-Germans. It appropriately stands tall over New Ulm, Minnesota, a city where nearly 75 percent of the population is of German heritage. 
   Designating the Hermann Monument as a National German American Monument will re-enforce the important contributions that millions of German-Americans have made to our nation. It is with this goal that I introduce this resolution, and urge my colleagues to support it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today on behalf of myself and Senators DASCHLE and BAUCUS to introduce the Rural Telework Act of 2000, a bill that is designed to make information technology (IT) industries a part of diverse, sustainable rural economies while helping IT employers find skilled workers. The goal of this bill is to link unemployed and underemployed individuals in rural areas and on Indian reservations with jobs in the IT industry through telework. 
   We are in the midst of an information revolution which has the potential to be every bit as significant to our society and economy as the industrial revolution two hundred years ago. But in recent months there has been much discussion of the ``digital divide,'' the idea that one America is not able to take advantage of the promise of new technologies to change the way we learn, live, and work while the other America speeds forward into the 21st Century. As advanced telecommunications and informaiton technology become the new engines of our economy, it is critical that all no communities are left behind. 
   Many rural communities and Indian reservations are already facing severe unemployment underemployment, and population loss due to a lack of economic opportunities. A study last year by the Center for Rural Affairs reports that widespread poverty exists in agriculturally based counties in a six-state region including Minnesota. Over one-third of households in farm counties have annual income less than $15,000 and, in every year from 1988 to 1997, earnings in farm counties significantly trailed other counties. Unemployment on many Indian reservations exceed 50% and remote locations make traditional industries uncertain agents for economic development. 
   There are troubles ahead for the new economy as well: the information technology industry reports that it faces a dramatic shortage of skilled workers. The Minnesota Department of Economic Security projects that over the next decade, almost 8,800 workers will be needed each year to fill position openings in specific IT occupations. Approximately 1,000 students graduate each year from IT-related post-secondary programs in Minnesota, not anywhere near enough to fill the demand, according to this same state agency. This shortage is reflected nation wide, with industry projecting  shortfalls of several hundred of thousand IT workers per year in coming years. 
   Rural workers need jobs. High tech employers need workers. This legislation would create models of how to bring these communities together to find a common solution to these separate challenges. 
   The Rural Telework Act of 2000 would authorize the Department of Agriculture to make competitive grants to qualified organizations to implement five year projects to train, connect, and broker employment in the private sector, through telework, a population of rural workers in their community. A grant recipient would be desgnated as a National Center for Distance Working. The National Centers for Distance Working, located in rural areas, are intended to be 
   locally developed and implemented national models of how telework relationships can meet the needs of rural communities for new economic opportunities and the need of IT intensive industries for new workers. 
   Mr. President, telework is a new term that may be unfamiliar to colleagues so I want to take a moment to explain what it is. According to the International Telework Association and Council (ITAC), telework is defined as using information and communications technologies to perform work away from the traditional work site typically used by the employer. For example, a person who works at home and transmits his or her work product back to the office via a modern is a teleworker, also known as a telecommuter; as is someone who works from a telework center, which is a place where many teleworkers work from--often for different companies. 
   The nature of IT jobs allow them to be performed away from a traditional work site. As long as workers have the required training, and a means of performing work activities over a distance--through the use of advanced telecommunications--there is no reason that skilled IT jobs cannot be filled from rural communities. 
   Because it essentially allows distance to be erased, telework is a promising tool for rural development and for making rural and reservation economies sustainable. Very soon, a firm located in another city, another state or even another country need not be viewed as a distant opportunity for rural residents, but as a potential employer only as far away as a home computer or telework center. Likewise, telework arrangements allow employers to draw from a national labor pool without the hassles and cost associated with relocation. 
   Many businesses and organizations are already using telework or telecommuting as a tool to reduce travel and commuting times and to accommodate the needs and schedules of employees. Many metropolitan communities with high concentrations of IT industries are already looking to telework as a means of addressing urban and suburban ills such as housing shortages, traffic congestion, and pollution. 
   However, the IT industry does not currently view rural America as a potential source of skilled employees. Nor do many rural communities know how to turn IT industries into a viable source of good jobs to revitalize local economies. Moreover, many rural community leaders fear that providing IT job skills to rural residents--when there are no opportunities for using those skills in the community--will lead to further population losses as retrained workers seek opportunities in metropolitan areas. At the same time, management of off-site employees requires new practices to be developed by employers and in some cases, dramatic paradigm shifts. Rural areas and Indian reservations are in danger of being left behind by a revolution which actually holds the most promise for those communities which are the most distant. IT employers risk missing a pool of potential employees with a strong work ethic. 
   Establishment of a National Center for Distance Working in a rural community or Indian reservation will give that community access to federal resources to implement a locally designed proposal to employ rural residents in IT jobs through telework relationships, linking prospective employers with rural residents. Successful National Centers for Distance Work would be locally 
    developed and implemented national models for how telework can be used as a tool for rural development. 
   The Department of Agriculture's Rural Utility Service (RUS) would administer the program which would have a $11 million annual authorization level. At least $10 million of authorized funds would be used for the purpose of making competitive grants to establish National Centers for Distance Working. 
   Grant money made available under the program would be highly flexible, and would need to be leveraged with private, local and state resources. For example, they could be used to provide or enhance the quality of: IT skills training and education, technology and telecommunications, promotion of teleworking, brokering employment for rural IT workers, and other necessary elements to establish IT work opportunities in that rural community. 
   The funds are not intended to duplicate existing federal training and connectivity programs. Nor is it intended that Centers use these funds to supplant existing telecommunications providers who offer appropriate services to make telework a reality in rural communities. Rather, the federal investment is targeted to augment these existing sources of funding and allow rural communities to fill in the gaps in existing public and private resources and services. Prospective grant recipients would need to form partnerships with local, state, and private entities, including potential employers. 
   The grants made available under this program would not be sufficient to cover the full cost of training, connecting, and employing rural workers, but are intended to be ``seed money'' leveraged with dollars from other sources. Grant recipients would be required to match the funds provided under this program with funds from non-federal sources. 
   Finally, up to $1 million of the $11 million could be used by RUS to make grants for the purpose of promoting the development of teleworking in rural areas by making grants to entities to conduct research on economics, operational, social, and policy issues related to teleworking in rural areas, including the development of best practices for businesses that employ teleworkers. 
   The necessary vision of how to make telework a reality already exists in some employers and in some rural communities. In Sebeka, Minnesota--a town with a population of little more than 600 people--a small firm called Cross Consulting was founded. That company employs over 20 people through a contract with Northwest Airlines to provide do programming on Northwest's mainframe computers. These people are rural teleworkers. The new economy is not leaving Sebeka behind and we need to incubate that kind of innovation in rural areas and Indian reservations across the country. 
   Mr. President, for many jobs, in many industries, telework may be the future of work. It may also be the future of diverse, sustainable rural economies. This legislation offers an early opportunity to invest in local innovation to harness this potential. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I actually want to proceed to morning business to introduce a bill, but having listened to the majority leader and having listened to Senator DASCHLE, I want to briefly respond to what I have heard on the floor of the Senate. 
   This is the Senate, and I thank Senator DASCHLE for representing me as a Senator from Minnesota so I can represent the people in Minnesota. 
   This proposal the Republicans have brought to the floor can easily be debated tomorrow. Senator DASCHLE made a proposal where there would be other amendments. They would be limited to an hour equally divided and up-or-down votes. It is a matter of whether or not my colleagues, the majority leader, and others, want to vote and want to be accountable for votes. 
   As it turns out, in the Senate, we come to the floor and we try to represent the people in our States. We will have an opportunity to focus on the Republicans' proposal. The problem with their proposal is it blows the budget, and the hundreds of billions of dollars that go into their proposal disproportionately go to people at the top. It is money that can be invested in other areas. 
   There are a number of Senators with amendments. Our amendments say some of that money, as my colleague from Montana mentioned, should be invested in kids and education; some of that money should be invested in making sure prescription drugs are affordable for senior citizens and others. 
   In my particular case, the proposal I talked about--and I have worked with Senator DORGAN, Senator SNOWE, and others on it--essentially says that when it comes to FDA-approved drugs in our country, there should be a way for our pharmacists and wholesalers to import those drugs back from other countries at half the cost and pass that savings on to consumers. That is called free trade. As a matter of fact, then people have less to deduct and there is less of a penalty. 
   My point is, with all due respect--and I am just speaking for myself--for too long the majority leader has come out here and has basically said: I am not going to let other Senators come out here with amendments that deal with issues that are important to the lives of people they represent; I am going to insist on only the amendments I say you can do, and if you are not willing to do that, I will file cloture and that is it. 
   That is not the way I remember the Senate operating for most of the years that I have been here. The thing that I have always loved about the Senate, the thing that I think has led to some really great Senators, is the ability for Senators to offer amendments, to speak out for the people they represent, to have up-or-down votes, and we would go at it. 
   If it takes us a week, it takes us a week. If we start early in the morning, and we go late in the night, that is the  way we do it. We are legislators. We are out here advocating and speaking and fighting for people we represent. 
   I thank Senator DASCHLE from South Dakota for essentially saying there is no way we are going to let the majority leader basically dictate to us what issues we should care about, what amendments we get to offer. 
   We have a different view about good tax policy. We have a different view about how to get the benefits to families. We also have a different view about other priorities that we ought to be dealing with on the floor of the Senate as well. 
   I will tell you, coming from a State where 65 percent of the elderly people have no prescription drug coverage whatsoever, I would like to see the Senate get serious on that issue. I would like to have an up-or-down vote. I would like to thank the minority leader for protecting my rights. 
   Finally, I ask the Chair, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill today. I would like to thank my colleague, Senator BROWNBACK, for his superb work. It is called the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000. Basically, this is legislation I am doing together with Senator BROWNBACK. We are very hopeful we will have strong support in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, starting with the chairman. 
   The long and the short of it, colleagues, is, though, it is hard to believe, in the year 2000, there are maybe 50,000 women and children trafficked to our country, maybe as many as 2 million worldwide. 
   It is a dark, dark feature of this new world economy, where women and children are basically responding to ads, going to other countries, believing they will find employment; and they are forced into prostitution, they are forced into labor, and the conditions are absolutely atrocious. 
   It is unbelievable what has happened to these women and children. Therefore, we put an emphasis on, No. 1, prevention, to make sure that through AID we get information out to people in other countries, so women and children are not entrapped in this way. 
   No. 2, we want to make sure there are alternatives, such as good microloan programs, like NGOs for women. 
   No. 3, we put an emphasis on how we can provide some protection, which has to do with making sure if women step forward they are not automatically deported. There would be an extension of their visa so they would be able to speak out without worrying about being deported from our country. We would make sure there is treatment for women who have gone through this living hell. 
   Finally, there would be prosecution. Making it crystal clear to those who are engaged in trafficking, you are going to be hit with stiff financial penalties. 
   Senator FEINSTEIN, who is on the floor, has been a strong supporter of trying to do something about this, and to make sure that if you are going to traffic a child under the age of 14 for  forced prostitution, you are going to serve a life sentence in prison. 
   We are going to call on the international community to take this seriously. I believe there will be strong support in the Senate. It would be a powerful and important human rights piece of legislation. 
   I am proud to introduce this legislation today. I think we can move it in committee. I think we can have strong bipartisan support. I thank Senator BROWNBACK, Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator BOXER, and others for their interest. 
   Mr. President, I am here today to introduce legislation to help end the horrific crime of trafficking in persons, particularly women and children, for the purposes of sexual exploitation and forced labor. This egregious human rights violation--and we must acknowledge trafficking in persons as the gross human rights abuse that it is--is a worldwide problem that must be confronted in domestic legislation as we continue to fight it on the international front. 
   At this very moment the administration is involved in negotiations in Vienna to strengthen international efforts to combat trafficking. We too must do our part. We need to enact a comprehensive trafficking bill into law in this Congress. Senator BROWNBACK and I have worked together closely to develop the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, and we agree on every provision of the bill except for one. We are here together today to introduce separate trafficking bills but to relay to you the truly bipartisan effort this has been. Senator BROWNBACK, I look forward to continuing this effort as our respective bills move through the committee and to the floor. 
   Despite increasing governmental and international interest, trafficking in persons continues to be one of the darkest aspects of globalization of the world economy, becoming more insidious and more widespread everyday. It is not just a problem that takes place on distant shores, as many of us have been led to believe. A recent CIA analysis of the international trafficking of women to the United States reports that as many as 50,000 women and children each year are brought into the United States and forced to work as prostitutes, forced laborers, and servants. Others credibly estimate that the number is probably much higher than that. 
   In a hearing last week, I heard the almost unbelievable testimony of several women who had been victims of trafficking. But, I say almost unbelievable because I heard the truth directly from the mouths of those who have been hurt the most. One victim trafficked for sex from Mexico to Florida at the age of 14 told,  
   Because I was a virgin, the men decided to initiate me by raping me again and again, to teach me how to have sex *.*.* Because I was so young, I was always in demand with the customers. It was awful. Although the men were supposed to wear condoms, some didn't so I eventually became pregnant and was forced to have an abortion.  
   I am here today to say that one victim is one too many. We have a serious problem that must be addressed. 
   The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 is a comprehensive bill that addresses the three P's of trafficking: it aims to prevent trafficking in persons, provides protection and assistance to those who have been trafficked, and provides for tough prosecution and punishment of those responsible for trafficking. 
   This bill addresses the underlying problems which fuel the trafficking industry by promoting public awareness campaigns, and initiatives to enhance economic opportunity, such as microcredit lending programs and skills training, for those most susceptible to trafficking. It provides for the establishment of programs designed to assist in the safe reintegration of victims into their community, and ensures that such programs address the physical and mental health needs of trafficking victims. In fact, the trauma that results from being trafficked is not unlike that of someone who has been tortured, and victims of trafficking deserve similar assistance. 
   This bill also provides immigration relief and allows victims of trafficking the time necessary to bring charges against those responsible for their condition. In the United States, many trafficking victims are 
   deported for not having the appropriate legal documents when, in fact, it is often the trafficker who has given the victim false documents, or held the victim's identifying documents so that he or she could not move freely. This bill addresses this unintended result of the law. This measure enhances our existing legal structures, criminalizing all forms of trafficking in persons and establishing punishment which is commensurate with the heinous nature of this crime. It provides for sentences of up to life in prison for those criminals involved in trafficking children. 
   Those criminals who are involved in trafficking, from the lowest to the highest levels, should not expect to go unpunished in the United States or abroad, and neither should governments whose governments might be complicit in trafficking. This bill requires an expansion of reporting on trafficking in the annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices, including a separate list of countries of origin, transit or destination for a significant number of trafficking victims which are not meeting minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. This bill provides for sanctions against counties which do not meet these minimum standards. It also authorizes the Secretary of State to publish a list of foreign persons involved in trafficking, and authorizes the President to take tough action against any person on that list. 
   A similar bill to our bills is moving through the House. Both that bill, H.R. 3244, and the bills that we are introducing today, are bipartisan efforts that deserve our full consideration. Senator BROWNBACK and I have worked hard to create a bill that is comprehensive and addresses both of our concerns, and both of us are equally committed to the fight against trafficking. We disagree, however, on a small but significant part of the strategy in this fight: the use of mandatory versus discretionary sanctions against countries which do not meet the minimum standards for elimination of trafficking. 
   While Senator BROWNBACK believes a system of mandatory sanctions will better facilitate our goal to eliminate trafficking, after much research into the effect of a mandatory sanctions requirement, I believe a discretionary sanctions approach, allowing for a more targeted use of sanctions, together with a requirement for the delivery to Congress of a separate list of countries involved in trafficking, is the better approach. 
   Trafficking exploits poor women and booms in societies undergoing severe economic distress. To impose economic sanctions in trafficking legislation that cuts off a broad range of bilateral and multilateral assistance programs designed to improve the economy of specific nations is to cause harm to the very people who might be helped by the legislation. 
   For example, I don't believe we can justify cutting off funding designed to foster economic reform so that those most susceptible to trafficking 
   such as women and children, can find work; or cutting off funding for programs that increase professionalism and independence in the judicial system so that traffickers can be held accountable; or even cutting off programs designed to provide training and technical assistance to countries which are generally making an effort to combat trafficking. This is what could happen to certain countries which are known to have a severe trafficking problem, under a mandatory sanctions regime. I don't believe we justify cutting off child survival and disease programs which counter the spread of HIV and AIDS, a significant problem among women trafficked into the sex industry, to countries in which sex trafficking is a large problem such as the Philippines and Bangladesh. These are just a couple of examples of the problems created by a sanctions regime that is too broad. A more targeted, discretionary sanctions approach to sanctions is, I think, clearly the way to go. 
   By requiring a list of countries involved in trafficking who do not meet minimum standards for the elimination of it, we can closely monitor the progress of countries in their fight against trafficking. Trafficking in persons is a complicated issue that almost always involves larger criminal elements. Those countries which are truly committed to ending this gross human rights abuse, and are cooperating in the global battle against it, should not  fear the list since they will not be put on it. Those countries which are not doing their share should expect that the President of the United States will use his discretion to impose targeted sanctions, and I for one will do all I can to see that our government imposes appropriate sanctions against those governments whose officials are complicit in this terrible crime. 
   Sanctions can be an important deterrent. However, in my opinion broad mandatory sanctions within the context of trafficking are not useful. A discretionary sanctions regime that allows the President--who is, in fact, better positioned to understand the varying dynamics and extent of the trafficking problem from country to country--to impose specific, targeted, and workable sanctions against trafficking countries is a more sound approach. 
   I hope my colleagues will take a look at both of these trafficking bills and cosponsor one or the other as they move forward. These bills are identical except for the sanctions provision, and both provide the same broad and comprehensive assistance to trafficking victims and to countries working to combat trafficking. 
   Since my wife and I began working on this issue several years ago, I have met with trafficking victims, after-care providers, and human rights advocates from around the world who have reminded me again and again of the horrible nature of this crime. We must intensify our work to eliminate trafficking in persons. We must focus our energy on this bipartisan effort to see the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 move quickly through the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and get passed into law this year. The many victims of trafficking deserve no less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000410</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I rise to talk about a truly extraordinary Minnesotan. 
   Allan Law has been doing extraordinary work in Minnesota for a very long time. For more than 30 years he was a public school teacher--which merits mention in its own right. 
   But his work did not stop at the end of the school day. He also is the founder of Minneapolis Recreation Development, Inc., a non-profit organization, which has been providing constructive recreational activities for our urban youth. This after-school and weekend program was developed more than 30 years ago and has been reaching yearly, on average, 400 of our hardest to reach young people. 
   During that period, Allan has spent untold hours meeting the needs of our inner-city youth. Day-in, day-out Allan Law wakes up and works to make the Twin Cities a better place and the young people living there stronger and healthier. He provides us with a model of what an individual, committed to improving a community, can do. 
   Allan is an inspiration who has been inspiring people for more than a generation. It is my hope and prayer that he will continue his good work for another 30 years. 
   I rise, as schools begin adjourning for the year, to pay tribute to Allan and his incredible work in making Minneapolis a better place--one young person at a time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think the Independent Budget is very important. We have been out here working on it. This amendment follows the amendment we introduced. One year is fine, but we need 5 years. Let's vote for this amendment as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I hope all Senators will vote for this amendment. A recorded vote is important because there are a lot of gaps in the veterans health care system. For my own part, I would far rather take it out of tax cuts which are disproportionately aimed at higher income people. I hope there is a 100-percent vote for this. The veterans need our support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. We asked for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Nevada. 
   Mr. President, I hope Senator JOHNSON--I have contacted his office--will be down here because I am really joining Senator JOHNSON who has taken the lead on this amendment and has been very involved, going back to his work on the Budget Committee. 
   Let me, first of all, give credit where credit is due. Over the last several years, we have been fighting what is called the flatline budget. 
   Last year, the administration presented to the Congress a veterans budget that was woefully inadequate. This year, they have really significantly increased their investment. It is an additional $1.4 billion over where they were. The Budget Committee has stuck with that. That is a huge help. 
   But Senator JOHNSON and I have had the honor and the opportunity to work with a lot of veterans organizations--the VFW, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Disabled American Veterans--who have put together an independent budget. They did this, starting last year, and did a lot of good grassroots organizing around the country. 
   It went way beyond just veterans coming to Washington, DC, and testifying because the message from the Congress to the veterans was: We are not just interested in what you are opposed to or what you say you need more money for. We want to see a careful outline. 
   This independent veterans budget is just such a budget proposal. 
   What Senator JOHNSON has done--and I am pleased to join him--is called for an additional $500 million above and beyond the $1.4 billion increase from the Senate Budget Committee that would be an investment, especially in veterans' health care. 
   We have a real challenge in veterans' health care. We talked about this in our millennium bill. What we have authorized is essentially decent care for a veterans population that is an aging population. We have many veterans who are 75, 80 years old. What we have said--and we should be looking at the whole population in this country in the same way--is this is a population where there are some huge gaps, some  huge needs. We need to get serious about it. 
   How can we pass legislation saying, veterans, we are going to make a commitment to long-term care. We are especially going to make a commitment to making sure you are not forced into nursing homes. We will make a commitment to making sure that there is the support for you to stay at home and live at home in as near a normal circumstance as is possible with dignity. 
   I was in the VA medical center about a month ago. It was very poignant. Quite often the men are World War II veterans. They have had a hip operation, a knee operation. If you spend any time out there in the lounge and talk to their wives, they are scared to death about when their husbands come home because they can't take care of them any longer without help. They don't know what they are going to do. Whether it be respite care, whether it be public health nurses within the VA health care system, we have to get serious about this. 
   The $500 million doesn't do the job, but it goes in the direction of having a veterans budget that is an honest-to-God response to the needs of veterans in this country. 
   In my State of Minnesota, I think the real heroes and heroines are the county veterans' service officers. They are not a part of the VA, but they are on the front lines of veterans' health care. They are on the front lines of meeting the needs of veterans and their families. I have had several meetings with these county veterans' service officers--lots of people come; a lot of veterans come--who are advocates for the veterans. In our State, the medical center in Minneapolis is really a flagship place, but veterans wait for up to 18 months for some of the specialized care they need. That is too long a wait. We have too long a waiting list. We have staff that are overworked, sometimes having to work one shift after another. 
   We have an aging veterans population. We have made the commitment in the millennium bill, but we have not backed it up with the investment of resources. We have too high a percentage of the veterans population that is a part of the homeless population. Too many of them are Vietnam vets, still struggling with posttraumatic stress syndrome. 
   If my colleagues have had any meetings with these vets, they know they are the most poignant meetings. Quite often, veterans will be sitting in a room with you. People will get up and leave and come back and get up and leave. They are struggling; you can see it. Quite often, you have substance abuse that occurs with this as well. We are not providing the treatment. 
   This amendment is a terribly important amendment. I yield the rest of my time to my colleague from South Dakota, Senator JOHNSON, who took the lead on the Budget Committee. He is the one who introduced the amendment. I am proud to be on the floor with him in partnership pushing for this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I think about 7 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to address a serious problem with one of the obscure assumptions both of this budget resolution and the President's budget. Both the Administration's submission and this budget resolution contain an assumption that $350 million of anticipated Medical Care Cost Recovery Fund (MCCF) receipts will be remitted to the Treasury from the VA. I strongly oppose this assumption. It flies in the face of current policy--and all logic--since it would result in a $350 million decrease in VA health care funding at the same time that Congress proposes an increase. The budget resolution is essentially assuming the VA is being given a ``loan'' from Treasury which it must pay back. 
   The VA has historically had difficulty in meeting their projected third party collection goals as it is, using the projected collections as a means to pad the budget on paper. By substantially reducing the incentive for aggressive collections by the VA, the MCCF receipts are even less likely to reach projected levels--meaning fewer funds for veterans health care. 
   This proposal is nothing more than an obscure, cynical maneuver to give extra scoring room on the appropriations bills later in this year at the expense of veterans. However, this provision will require legislation to be put into effect, and I want my colleagues to know that I will strongly oppose any efforts to pass such legislation as that process moves forward this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000405</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from New Jersey. 
   Let me first of all commend Senator ROBB of Virginia. I think what he has done out here on the floor of the Senate is very important for our country, and not just for senior citizens. He submitted an amendment that would make it out of order for the Senate to consider a reconciliation bill that spends on-budget surplus on tax cuts unless Congress has already enacted legislation establishing an outpatient Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
   I come here to the floor of the Senate to congratulate Senator ROBB and to speak for senior citizens in Minnesota. 
   If we are about legislation that is important to people's lives, if we want to be here to represent the people in our States, there is no more important amendment for us to pass. This isn't where the rubber meets the road, but it is all about the general direction for the Senate, and the direction Senator ROBB's amendment calls is to make sure we make a commitment to funding prescription drug coverage for senior citizens in this country. 
   In the State of Minnesota, on the basis of hearings I have attended, on the basis of conversations and meetings--some of them incredibly heartfelt and incredibly painful--with elderly citizens in my State, there is no more important thing we can do than to pass this amendment and to once and for all cover prescription drug benefits for senior citizens. 
   First of all, in the State of Minnesota, because of a very unfair and, I argue, even discriminatory Medicare reimbursement to our managed-care plans and to our seniors, we have in our State only one-third of senior citizens  receiving any kind of 
   prescription drug coverage at all. Two-thirds of the senior citizens in Minnesota don't have any coverage whatsoever. I think in the country it is about one-third. But in our State it is an acute problem; it is a problem of crisis proportion. 
   Second of all, as a result of that, it is not uncommon to meet seniors who, even when the doctor gives them a prescription, can't fill the prescription because they don't have the money, or they cut the pills into thirds or into halves, all of which is dangerous. I have met all of those senior citizens. I have been in these conversations with senior citizens about this. It is not uncommon to meet people who spend $300 or $400 a month to meet their prescription drug costs and at the same time their total monthly income is $1,000--all the while, in the pharmaceutical industry, the costs have gone up 17 percent a year over the past couple of years, and they are projected to go up again. The pharmaceutical industry rakes in record--I argue exorbitant, I argue obscene--profits. 
   But for today, what is so important about the Robb amendment is that if we want to do something to really make a difference in the lives of people we represent, we must expand Medicare and provide this coverage. 
   My colleagues on the Republican side want to go forward with tax cuts, many of which go to higher income people least in need. They seem to believe it is not an appropriate role for Government or the Senate to provide prescription drug coverage as a part of what Medicare is all about. 
   I think the vast majority of people in the country believe that when it comes to certain pressing issues of their lives, there is a positive role Government can play. This is a perfect example to make sure people do not go without the very prescription drugs they need, which is so essential to their health. That is what is so important about this amendment. 
   When my Republican colleagues say they want to limit this to low-income senior citizens, I just want to say what has made Medicare and Social Security work is that it is a universal coverage program. It commands broad support. This is about building on Medicare. This isn't going back to means-tested programs which quite often become poor programs. 
   Just because a senior citizen in Minnesota or Virginia or Massachusetts has an income of $17,000 a year or $18,000 a year, it does not mean he or she or both of them are not in need of some help so they can purchase the prescription drugs that are so important to their health. 
   This is a very important amendment. I am tired of the Minnesotans having to go to Canada to purchase prescription drugs they can afford. I am tired of the Minnesota Senior Federation, which is a courageous, gutsy grassroots organization, having to raise Cain over and over and over again about the fact that so many senior citizens are not able to afford the prescription drugs they need for their health. 
   ``All politics,'' Tip O'Neill said, ``is local.'' I argue all politics is also personal. Having been the child of parents, both of whom have passed away with Parkinson's disease, I know what drugs such as L-Dopa and Sinemet cost. 
   There is no more important thing we can do if we want to get real, if we want to respond to what our constituents need, than to pass this Robb amendment. 
   I thank the Senator from Virginia for his leadership. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000405</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Nevada. I especially thank my colleague, Senator BINGAMAN from New Mexico, not only for his amendment but for his work in education and for children. 
   Quite often, we will come out here on the floor and talk about how great Senator ``so and so'' is. I am not saying it is not meant because I think quite often it is meant. But from my point of view, at least, I think Senator BINGAMAN's methodology as a Senator is interesting. He never seems to try to claim credit for what he does. He is extremely thoughtful. He is very substantive. I believe he is one of the best Senators in the Senate. I am proud to support this amendment. 
   Really, what this amendment says, as we look at this overall budget--after all, our budget speaks to our priorities--is that there is a difference between the Democrats and Republicans. It is a difference that makes a difference. 
   Republicans, in their budget proposal, have provided much more funding for IDEA. I thank the Presiding Officer, the Senator from New Hampshire, for his strong voice on this. Ever since he came here to the Senate, he has been talking about the need to live up to what is an unfunded mandate and to provide for more resources in this area. I think that is extremely important. 
   I also hear from people at our school district levels: Look, if you would do the job of providing the funding here, that would help us in many important ways. Above and beyond that, what we have done is said yes to that. We provide for the same funding, but we go further. We say that we think there is an important choice we need to make as Senators, and there is an important choice and decision the country needs to make: Whether we go down the path of the tax cuts--many of them disproportionately flowing to high-income people, to more affluent citizens--or whether, as we look over the next 5 years, we could, in fact, do better by our children and do better by education with close to an additional $35 billion. 
   I think I heard my colleague, my friend from New Mexico, whom I work with a lot in the mental health area, say: Look, we have done enough. Basically, we believe there is enough in this budget. 
   I do not agree. I am in profound disagreement. I am in a school every 2 weeks, most of the time in Minnesota, although sometimes in other States, as well. I was a college teacher for 20 years. I love to be in schools. I love to teach. I love to meet with students. 
   I will tell you right now, in Minnesota, and all across the country, we have a lot of crumbling schools. I think in Minnesota we have well over a $1 billion challenge ahead of us. 
   I will tell you this: It is very difficult to tell students and young people we value them and then not invest in these schools to the point where the infrastructure is 
   crumbling. What we say to students when we do not even invest in the physical infrastructure is: We do not value you. 
   We have the task of rebuilding crumbling schools. But don't stop there, I say to Senators. We need to do more. I do not think this budget that our Republican colleagues have presented does near enough. I am in profound disagreement.  
   You ask the students--talk to them; in many ways, they are the experts on education--what works and what doesn't? They will all tell you that one of the keys to a good education is good teachers. 
   In the budget proposal that the Democrats have brought to the floor, Senator BINGAMAN taking the lead, we talk about the need to get more resources to the school district level so that we can hire more good teachers and we can have smaller class size. 
   I would argue today and tomorrow and for the rest of this year and for the next 10 years, that is one of the best things we can do. 
   One of the things we do not include in this budget proposal but Democrats have talked about--I wish we would back it more with investment--is what we should be doing prekindergarten. 
   But let me go on about what we can do and what is in this proposal. 
   In addition, we are talking about afterschool programs. I have not found any issue where there is a greater community consensus--from law enforcement to teachers, to parents, to social workers, to youth workers--that we have to give our children and our young people positive alternatives after school: places to go, places to be. We include that in this proposal. That makes a whole lot of sense. 
   We had a debate--sort of a debate--on the Ed-Flex bill. I will admit, I was in a minority of one on that. I think the final vote was 99-1. But one of the arguments I made--which I believe most Senators agree with, I hope--and which is certainly a part of this proposal, is that we are talking about flexibility at the same time we are providing title I money, which goes to those students who are disadvantaged, those students who need additional support. We are funding it at about a 30-percent level. 
   In my State of Minnesota--I am in inner-city schools all the time--in the city of St. Paul, after you go below the threshold of 65 percent of your students coming from homes which make them qualified for the free or reduced school lunch program, we do not have any funding. Once you have 60 percent of your students low income, you do not qualify. We are out of money. We can do much better. 
   My colleagues on the other side of the aisle say we have done enough. No, we have not done enough. It is not enough to give speeches. It is not enough to have photo opportunities next to children. It is not enough to say we are all for education. It is not enough to say we are for young people because they are our future. It is not enough until we back it up by digging into our pockets and, yes, spending more money and making the investment. 
   I think this amendment that we bring to the floor is a ``divide'' amendment. This is a divide amendment between Republicans and their priorities--more tax cuts; more tax cuts disproportionately going to wealthy, high-income people, versus more investment in children and more investment in education. 
   Frankly, I would be willing to debate any colleague who says we have done enough, that we should not be making this additional investment. 
   Of course, we should be making this additional investment. We are not going to provide the best education for every child on a ``tin cup'' budget. This additional $35 billion can make a difference. 
   Let me also point out, since we have this debate on the floor of the Senate--and we will have much more of this debate when we get to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--that I am deeply troubled by all of the Senators--I hope not a majority--who want to talk about high stakes standardized tests and want to say we are for rigor and want to say we are for accountability and want to even say that, by gosh, if a third grader, age 8, does not pass this test, then she is going to be held back, but we are unwilling to make the investment and get the resources to the local school district level so that every one of these children have the same opportunity to pass these tests. 
   We hold children responsible for our failure to invest in their achievement and their future. We can't have it this way. We ought to be talking about high standards. We ought to be telling our children we expect the very best of them, but we also need to have the policy integrity, as Senators, to provide the resources to our local communities so we can make sure that, as a Nation and as a Senate, we have met the opportunity-to-learn standard, that every child in the United States of America, regardless of color of skin, rich or poor, low income or high income, rural or urban, or boy or girl, will have the same chance to reach his or her full potential. 
   This $35 billion is not Heaven on Earth. It doesn't make it perfect, but it makes it a better Earth on Earth for our children. I believe we should support it, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000405</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving right to object--I don't know whether I will--could I ask the Senator to again summarize the second-degree amendment. I couldn't hear him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000405</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thought the Senator had just summarized it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000405</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is the second-degree amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to draw attention to the continuing war in Chechnya and to remind the international community that our lack of vigorous and sustained action to respond to the conflict there could be too easily interpreted by the Russian Government as indifference to it. We must act to again remind the newly elected President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, that he is responsible for the conduct of Russian troops in and around Chechnya and has an obligation to ensure compliance with international humanitarian law and human rights norms; and we must act to urge the Government of the Russian Federation and the leadership of the Chechen Government to immediately cease military operations in Chechnya and to seek a negotiated just settlement to the conflict there. 
   Today I am offering a Resolution which urges the Administration to sponsor a Resolution condemning the Russian Federation's conduct in Chechnya at the annual United Nations Human Rights Commission meeting that is currently underway in Geneva, Switzerland, to support the appointment of a U.N. Special Rapporteur for Chechnya, and to place the war in Chechnya at the top of the agenda of all high-level diplomatic meetings involving the United States and the Russian Federation. The United States must publicly and actively affirm respect for human rights, democratic rule of law and international accountability as a foundation of United States policy and not simply pay them lip service. 
   Sunday night we watched as acting President Vladimir Putin was elected President of the Russian Federation. As the President of a fully sovereign state I do not question President Putin's authority to combat what it perceives as terrorism on its own soil and to ensure the integrity of its borders, nor do I dismiss credible reports of grave violations of human rights on both sides of this war. I do, however, condemn the continuing indiscriminate use of force by the Russian military in Chechnya and the blatant disregard it continues to show for international humanitarian law there. 
   Last month the Senate Foreign Relations Committee heard evidence and testimony reporting that Russian forces in Chechnya have caused the deaths of countless thousands of innocent civilians and the displacement of well over 250,000 innocents; forcibly relocated refugee 
   populations; and committed widespread atrocities including summary executions, arbitrary detentions, torture, and rape. While they claim to have begun to open up access to the region, the Russian government continues to effectively deny international organizations full and unimpeded access into Chechnya to assess and report on the situation there, to investigate alleged atrocities and war crimes, and to provide humanitarian relief. 
   I am not alone in my concern about the situation in Chechnya. Last November both the House and Senate passed resolutions expressing grave concern regarding the armed conflict in the North Caucasus region of the Russian Federation and condemning the violence in Chechnya. On February 24 of this year, the Senate unanimously agreed to Senate Resolution 262, calling for a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Chechnya, and Senate Resolution 261, regarding the detention of the journalist Andrei Babitsky. Finally, just a few weeks ago on March 9, Senate Resolution 269, regarding relations with the Russian Federation given its conduct in Chechnya, was referred to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
   We have all read editorials on Chechnya in the news media written by our own colleagues, witnessed a joint conference on Chechnya by the Commonwealth of Independent States Inter-parliamentary Assembly and the European Parliament, heard claims by a leading Russian human rights activist who is also a member of the Russian Parliament offering fierce criticism of the Russian government's efforts in Chechnya, and listened as just this past week at the annual meeting of the U.N. Human Rights Commission meeting in Geneva, Secretary Albright objected to the indiscriminate use of force against civilians in Chechnya and proclaimed that allegations of Russian human rights violations are serious and must be addressed urgently. In a phone call to congratulate President Putin on his victory in the Presidential election, President Clinton expressed his hope that Mr. Putin would carry out impartial and transparent investigations of reported human rights violations in Chechnya and provide prompt and full access for international organizations and the press. But, Mr. President, even after all this commentary, and numerous meetings designed to press the Russians to change course, the situation has changed hardly at all. 
   I fully support Secretary Albright's decision to address the allegations of gross human rights abuses by Russian soldiers in Chechnya in her address to the U.N. Commission on Human Rights, and the President's raising this issue again in his phone call to President Putin, but the grave situation in Chechnya demands that we do more. The annual meeting of the U.N. Commission on Human Rights provides a  major forum for addressing human rights concerns and for expressing international commentary on the human rights performance of all nations. The Government of the Russian Federation must be held accountable for its conduct in Chechnya and should be forced to defend itself against allegations of grave human rights violations there, in the full light of public scrutiny. 
   The administration should bring a resolution expressing the Commission's serious concern about reports of gross human rights abuses and other violations of humanitarian law in Chechnya, including provisions urging the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry to investigate violations of the Geneva Convention and other international humanitarian law. It must also support the appointment of a United Nations Special Rapporteur for Chechnya to assess and report on the situation there, and place the war in Chechnya at the top of the agenda of all high-level diplomatic meetings involving the United States and the Russian Federation. 
   Mr. President, it is high time the United States expressed its commitment to human rights, democratic rule of law, and international accountability through concrete action. We must send a message to the Russian Federation, as well as the international community, that respect for these important principles will be a condition for continued cooperation with the United States. We must demand concrete action by the Government of the Russian Federation to end human rights violations by Russian soldiers in Chechnya, to investigate, where appropriate, those accused of violations, and to ease the suffering of civilians there. We must not be diverted by verbal commitments by the Russian leadership that never come to fruition. We need to exercise our leadership now. The international community and the people of Chechnya deserve no less. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000329</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I join with my colleagues on the HELP committee to cosponsor the Ryan White Care Act Amendments of 2000. I do this with pride in what has been accomplished since I last cosponsored the reauthorization of the Ryan White Care Act in 1996. This legislation since 1991 has enabled the development of community driven systems of care for low-income, uninsured, and underinsured individuals and families affected by HIV disease. 
   Last year alone, the Ryan White CARE Act served an estimated half million people living with HIV and AIDS and affected the lives of millions more. Nearly 6 in 10 of these people were poor. Last year, this legislation enabled approximately 100,000 people living with HIV and AIDS to receive drug therapy. This is particularly important because half of the people served by the Act have incomes less than $10,000 a year--and the new drug treatments cost more than $12,000 annually. 
   According to the National Center for Health Statistics, between 1995 and 1997, there has been a 30 percent decline in HIV related hospitalizations, representing a savings of more than $1 billion. Since 1991, according to Sandra Thurman, Director of the Office of National AIDS Policy, the CARE Act has helped to reduce AIDS mortality by 70 percent; to reduce mother-child transmission of HIV by 75 percent; and to enhance both the length and quality of life for people living with HIV/AIDS. 
   The epidemic is far from over. Each year there are 40,000 new HIV infections in the U.S., and the death rate is no longer dropping so quickly. Although people with HIV disease are living much longer, the highly touted multi-drug therapies are beginning to fall short of their prayed for effectiveness, and they do not work for everyone. 
   In addition, the nature of the epidemic is changing. HIV/AIDS is devastating communities of color. AIDS is the leading cause of death for African-Americans aged 25 to 44, and the second leading cause of death among Latino Americans of the same age group. HIV/AIDS also disproportionately affects younger Americans. Half of the 40,000 new infections each year occur in individuals under age 25. AIDS is killing the youngest, potentially most productive members of our society. Without a renewed commitment to research, prevention, and culturally sensitive treatment, the rates of infection and death will continue to ravage communities of color. 
   It is a testament to the success of this legislation that there is such unanimity among the committee members and all of the diverse group of stakeholders that the Ryan White Care Act needs to be reauthorized. The amendments included in this legislation are designed to increase the accountability of the overall program; to meet the challenges of the changing nature of the epidemic; to improve the quality of care; and to reach those affected by this plague who have not been reached before. We often say ``Leave no child behind'' and everyone agrees. We must also say, ``let's leave no one afflicted by this dread disease untreated''. 
   Provisions for quality management around clinical practice will bring best practices to patients. Holding grantees accountable for quality management and relevance of programs means the money appropriated will be well spent. This is good medicine and responsible lawmaking. 
   Allowing for flexibility in how the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) funds are spent will provide more low-income individuals with life-prolonging medications. Focusing on early intervention services to support early diagnosis will get patients into treatment faster and hopefully also slow the spread of the disease. Requiring grantees to develop and maintain linkages with key points of entry to the medical system, such as mental health and substance abuse treatment centers, will dramatically improve treatment, slow the spread of the disease, and reach previously unserved people. This is good prevention. 
   In 1990, the HIV/AIDS epidemic was primarily limited to large cities; hence the majority of funds were granted to cities. Over the last decade, unfortunately, the epidemic has spread to more rural areas and to different populations. This bill requires that funds be spent in accordance with local demographics. Several provisions in this bill will allow more funds to go to less populated areas and to provide special grants for infants, youth and women. This is good allocation of resources based on needs. 
   This bill also contains fiscally responsible caps on administrative costs, and requires all grantees to coordinate with Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program. This makes good fiscal sense. 
   Mr. President, the Ryan White CARE Act has saved lives and serves hundreds of thousands of needy people yearly. The Ryan White CARE Act has a proven record of success; let's build on that success. This federal legislation needs to be reauthorized now, as proposed, to meet the continuing needs and new challenges presented by the changing nature of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
   That is why I urge all Senators to join in cosponsoring and passing the Ryan White CARE Act Amendments of 2000, and I urge the members of the Appropriations Committee to provide the funds to fully implement it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to explain my vote against the Hollings amendment to S.J.Res. 14 which would have amended the Constitution to authorize regulation of contributions to, and spending by, Federal and State candidates. 
   I am a strong proponent of campaign finance reform. I would even go so far as to say that I view the fight to bar private, interested money from dominating our elections as the core battle that needs to be won if Congress is going to turn its attention to enacting an agenda that put working families before wealthy, entrenched special interests. The campaign finance reform debate may be to the nineties what civil rights was to the fifties and sixties. In fact, let me go a step further and say the campaign finance reform may be the new civil rights watershed. 
   I do not believe that money equals speech, as some of my colleagues have argued during the debate on the Hollings amendment and in previous debates. The vote is undermined by the dollar. The vote may be equally distributed, but dollars are not. As long as elections are privately financed, those who can afford to give more will always have a leg up--in supporting candidates, in running for office themselves, and in gaining access and influence with those who get elected. We all know this is the way it works. And the American people know it, too. 
   I laud my colleague's intentions in offering this amendment. No one has pushed harder on campaign finance reform than the junior Senator from South Carolina. But while I have supported the Hollings amendment in the past, I voted against it today. There is now significant momentum at both the federal and state levels to enact campaign finance reform--including public financing of elections, which I believe is critical--in a manner that will pass constitutional muster. These efforts, with hard work and determination, have the best chance of resulting in meaningful, lasting improvements in our election system, and therefore in our democracy. 
   Amending the Constitution is a long and arduous process. It is rarely successful. I simply do not believe that it is now the best mechanism for achieving reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask my colleague from Vermont, I am waiting to go to another committee, may I follow the Senator from Wisconsin? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank Senator FEINGOLD for his statement. I will be relatively brief. 
   I ask unanimous consent that if other Senators aren't here, Senator KENNEDY be allowed to speak after myself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the floor not the first time to announce my opposition to this proposed constitutional amendment, giving power to the Congress and the States to prohibit physical desecration of the flag of the United States. 
   I wish to speak about this a little bit more personally because I think all of us come to our point based upon real-life experience. My father was a Jewish immigrant born in the Ukraine and who fled persecution from Russia. My mother's family came from the Ukraine as well. As a first generation American on my father's side, I revere the flag and I am fiercely patriotic. I love to see the flag flying over the Capitol. I love to recite the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag. I think it is a beautiful, powerful symbol of American democracy. 
   What I learned from my parents more than anything else, and from my own family experience as the son of a Jewish immigrant who fled czarist Russia, is that my father came to the United States because of the freedom--the freedom we have as American citizens to express our views openly, without fear of punishment. 
   I am deeply impressed with the sincerity of those who, including Senator HATCH, favor this constitutional amendment. I am impressed with the sacrifice and patriotism of those veterans who support this constitutional amendment. I think in the veterans community there certainly are differences of opinion. I do not question their sincerity or commitment at all. 
   It is with a great deal of respect for those with whom I disagree, including some members of the American Legion, that I oppose this amendment. I oppose it because, to me, it is ultimately the freedom that matters the most. To me, the soul of the flag, as opposed to the physical part of the flag, is the freedom that it stands for, the freedom that my parents talked about with me, the freedom that all of us have to speak up. I do not want to amend the Bill of Rights for the first time in its 209 years of existence. I don't want to amend the first amendment, the founding principle of freedom of speech from which all other freedoms follow. 
   I want to very briefly read from some of what our Justices have had to say because I think they say it with more eloquence than I could. In Texas v. Johnson, an opinion written by Justice Brennan, joined by Justices Marshall, Blackmun, Scalia, and Kennedy--and I note this is a diverse group of judges we are talking about--they said:   
   If there is a bedrock principle underlying the First Amendment, it is that the government may not prohibit the expression of an idea simply because society finds the idea itself offensive or disagreeable........The way to preserve the flag's special role is not to punish those who feel differently about these matters. It is to persuade them that they are wrong........We do not consecrate the flag by punishing its desecration, for in doing so we dilute the freedom that this cherished emblem represents.  
   If freedom of speech means anything, I think it means protecting all speech, even that speech which outrages us. I have no use for those who desecrate the flag. Speech that 
   enjoys widespread support doesn't need any protection. As the great Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes pointed out, freedom of speech is not needed for popular speech, but instead it is for the thought that we hate, the expression threatened with censorship or punishment. 
   I quote from General Powell's letter. He has been quoted several times, but it is too eloquent to pass up:  
   We are rightfully outraged when anyone attacks or desecrates our flag. Few Americans do such things and when they do they are subject to the rightful condemnation of their fellow citizens. They may be destroying a piece of cloth, but they do no damage to our system of freedom which tolerates such desecration. . . . I would not amend that great shield of democracy to hammer a few miscreants. The flag will still be flying proudly long after they have slunk away.  
   Our late and dear friend and colleague, Senator Chafee, who was a highly decorated soldier in two wars wrote:  
   We cannot mandate respect and pride in the flag. In fact, in my view, taking steps to require citizens to respect the flag sullies its significance and its symbolism.  
   Finally, my colleague from Wisconsin mentioned Senator Glenn, another real American hero. Senator Glenn said:  
   Without a doubt, the most important of those values, rights and principles is individual liberty: the liberty to worship, to think, to express ourselves freely, openly and completely, no matter how out of step these views may be with the opinions of the majority.  
   That is the first part of my presentation--just to say that I love this flag. I think when you have the family background I have, you are fiercely patriotic. I love this country. My mother and father are no longer alive, but I still think they know I am a Senator. They weren't alive when I was elected. It would mean everything in the world to them. But, to me, the real soul of the flag, going beyond the physical presence of the flag, is the freedom that the flag stands for. I don't think we should give up on that freedom. I don't think we should amend the first amendment to the Constitution. I think it would be a profound mistake. I say that out of respect for those who disagree with me in the Senate. I say it out of respect for those in the veterans community who disagree with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wish to make one other point, which is not a constitutional argument, but it does have a lot to do with veterans. I say that we have spent some time on this, and we should; it is not an unimportant matter. But I also hope we will spend time on the floor of the Senate talking about a range of other very important issues that affect veterans. I am amazed that every time I meet with veterans in Minnesota, or in other parts of the country, I hear about the ways in which veterans fall between the cracks. We have a budget this year that is better than a flatline budget, but Senator KENNEDY is out here--a health care Senator--and he knows that better than anybody in the Senate. 
   The fact is, we have an aging veteran population like we have an aging population in general, and that is all for the good because people are living longer. We don't have any real way right now of helping those veterans the way we should. We passed the millennium bill, but the question is, Will the appropriations be there? We ought to be talking about the health care needs of veterans as well. We ought to be talking about how we are going to make sure those veterans can stay at home and live at home with dignity, with home-based health care. 
   I was at a medical center in Minneapolis, which is a real flagship hospital. It is not uncommon, when you go visit with veterans, you will see spouses who are there with their husbands, or maybe out in the waiting room or the lobby relaxing. You can talk to them for 3 minutes and realize they are scared to death about their husband going home. Maybe they had a knee or a hip operation, or maybe they have cancer. The spouses are mainly women. They don't know how they are going to take care of their husbands. 
   There isn't even any support for respite care. When are we going to talk about that issue? When are we going to talk about the number of veterans who are homeless? When are we going to talk about the number of them who are Vietnam vets, because they are struggling with posttraumatic syndrome and because they are struggling with substance abuse and they don't get the treatment? When are we going to be talking about this overall budget for veterans' health care, which is not a national-line budget? 
   There is an increase from the President this year--I am glad for that--but it doesn't really take into account all of the gaps and all of the investment we need to make. When are we going to do that? 
   I did not come to the floor to not speak to this amendment. I have spoken with as much as I can muster as to why I oppose it. But I also want to say--I want this to be part of my formal remarks because I don't think it is off the Record--colleagues, that I hope we will talk about the whole set of other issues that are very important, not only to veterans but to the American people. 
   I can assure you that I have worked with veterans to put together their independent budget. That is a whole coalition of veterans organizations. It is really shocking how many veterans fall between the cracks. We have a lot of work to do. We are talking about people's lives. It is no way to say thanks to veterans when we don't come through with the health care we promised them. 
   I want to make it clear that I hope we will soon focus on these issues as well. I hope the veterans community will--I know the veterans community will--focus on these issues as well. I spend an awful lot of time with veterans. I have a lot of meetings with veterans and with county veteran service officers. These issues come up over and over again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, as much as I hate to recognize this, this is the fourth anniversary of the passage by the House and the Senate of the ``freedom to fail'' bill. 
   On this date in 1996, both houses of Congress approved a new farm bill, described then as ``the most sweeping change in agriculture since the Depression. It would get rid of government subsidies to farmers over the next seven years.'' 
   The bill has made sweeping changes in agriculture--it has produced one of the worst economic crises that rural American has ever experienced. Thanks to the Freedom to Farm, or as I call it the Freedom to Fail Act, tens of thousands of farm families are in jeopardy of losing their livelihoods and life savings. 
   The Freedom to Farm bill is not saving tax payers money, in fact we have spent $19 billion more in the first 4 years of the 1996 farm bill than was supposed to be spent through the 7 year life of the law. 
   However, what has resulted is the precipitous loss of family farmers because this legislation has not provided  small and moderate sized farmers with a safety net. Instead payment loopholes have been inserted in legislation that has allowed the largest argibusiness corporations to receive the lions share of government support. This is unacceptable. 
   In my State of Minnesota, family farm income has decreased 43 percent since 1996 and more than 25 percent of the remaining farms may not cover expenses for 2000. Every month more and more family farmers are being forced to give up their life's work, their homes, and their communities. 
   The primary problem is price. The average price paid to producers for their crops has plummeted. Farmers suffer from a negative cash flow. In Minnesota it costs $2.50 to grow a bushel of corn. Today the price of a bushel of corn in Minnesota sells at around $1.75 at the local elevator. 
   The forecast for prices is gloom. USDA projections for commodity prices are expected to remain low. 
   USDA estimates that farm income will decline 17 percent this year if Congress does not act. 
   Wheat prices have dropped $3 in the past 2 years. In May, 1996, wheat 
   was selling $5.75 per bushel. Today, wheat is at $2.78 per bushel. This is well below the cost of production. Farmers need at least $4 a bushel to break even. 
   Soybean prices will probably average under $5 a bushel. Livestock and dairy prices are also being impacted. Hog farmers still face market prices below their costs of production for the third straight year. 
   Family farmers have struggled to survive as the devastating results of the 1996 Farm bill, exacerbated by the lack of a reliable farm safety net. 
   In addition, merger after merger in the agriculture sector leaves producers wondering if they will be able to survive amidst the new giants of agribusiness. 
   As a direct result, rural bankers, implement dealers, and other small businesses that rely on farm families as their customers have been squeezed as cash flows have dropped. Rural families with shrunken incomes have less money to pay for quality health care coverage and adequate child care for their children. There is an affordable housing crunch as urgent as in our urban areas. And finally, in our rural communities there is a lack of good jobs at decent wages. 
   The crisis is real. You can see it in the numbers. You can see it in the eyes of the scores of farmers who are forced to sell off the substance of their history and their livelihood. 
   Many compare the current farm crisis to the 1980's. We all know there was a massive shake out of family farmers at that time. It changed the face of rural America. Many communities were devastated and have not recovered. I assume many use the comparison to remind us that the distressed farm economy in the '80's somehow survived, and so farmers will survive this one too. But the crisis we now face is much graver than in the 80's, and I fear that family farmers and rural America will not survive. 
   The tough farm economy may resemble the agricultural crisis of the 1980's, but there is a notable difference, and that difference is namely the passage of the Freedom to Farm Act. The Act ignored the fact that family farming is a business both uniquely important and uniquely affected by nonmarket forces. 
   The Freedom to Farm has become Freedom to Fail. 
   The 1996 Freedom to Farm bill was suppose to wean rural America from subsidies by introducing a market-driven agriculture. The bill gave farmers flexibility to plant what they wanted, and it was to make farmers able to adapt to a slump in a particular commodity by switching to a more profitable crop. But the switch in crops doesn't make a difference if they are all drastically low. 
   We are now witnessing many farmers planting soybeans. Why is that so many farmers are planting soybeans? It isn't because the market demands soybeans. It is because the Freedom to Fail bill capped the loan rate on soybeans higher than other commodities, and so farmers are planting soybeans to get a better rate than from corn or wheat. This is not market driven agriculture. 
   The Freedom to Farm bill is not saving tax payers money, as I've said we have spent $19 billion in the first 4 years of the bill than was supposed to be spent through the 6-year life of the law. However, what has resulted is the precipitous loss of family farmers because this legislation has not provided small and moderate sized farmers with an adequate safety net. 
   Instead payment loopholes have been inserted in legislation that has allowed the largest agribusiness corporations to receive the majority of government support. This unacceptable. 
   In order to ensure that family farmers remain a part of this country's landscape, need a new farm bill now. We simply cannot wait until reauthorization in 2002 for Congress to act. 
   Congress must act now to address the impact of plummeting farm incomes and the ripple effect it is having throughout rural communities and their economic base. Farmers are not going to survive if the only help they get from Washington are inadequate, unreliable, long delayed emergency aid bills that are distributed unfairly. 
   We need policies that equip family farmers to withstand the low prices and weather disasters that are fueling the current farm crisis, so their livelihood is not 
   dependent on the whims of Congress. 
   This crisis is a crisis of price. Farmers want and deserve a fair price. Farmers do not want a handout. Yet, the 1996 Freedom to Farm bill stripped farmers of their marketing tools, and they have been left empty handed. 
   People cannot--they will not--be able to survive right now unless there is some income stabilization, unless there is some safety net, unless there is some way they can have some leverage to get a decent price in the marketplace. That is the missing piece of Freedom to Farm or Freedom to Fail. Flexibility is good. But that has not worked, and I see it every day in every community that I am in. 
   I'm not talking about AMTA payments, which is severance pay for our Nation's farmer heritage. Our Nation's family farmers want--they desperately need some leverage in the marketplace to get a fair price. 
   We need to lift the loan rate. The Freedom to Fail Act capped marketing loans at artificial levels so low that they fail to offer meaningful income support. The loan rates have left farmers vulnerable to the severe economic and weather related events of the past 3 years, resulting in devastating income losses. 
   Family farmers deserve a targeted, countercyclical loan rate that provides a meaningful level of income support when the market price falls below the loan rate, and a loan rate with a CUP rather than a CAP so it doesn't merely track prices when they fall. Lifting the loan rate would provide relief to farmers who need it and increase stability over the long term. 
   We also need to institute farmer owned reserve systems to give farmers the leverage they need in the marketplace. And conservation incentives to reward farmers who carry out conservation measures on their land. 
   And finally, unless we address the current trend of consolidation and vertical integration in corporate agriculture, nothing else we do to maintain the family size farms will succeed. 
   The farm share of profit in the food system has been declining for over 20 years. 
   From 1994 to 1998, consumer prices have increased 3 percent while the prices paid to farmers for their products has plunged 36 percent. Likewise, the impact of price disparity is reinforced by reports of record profits among agribusinesses at the same time producers are suffering an economic depression. 
   In the past decade and a half, an explosion of mergers, acquisitions, and anti-competitive practices has raised concentration in American agriculture to record levels. 
   The top four pork packers have increased their market share from 36 percent to 57 percent. In fact, the world's largest pork producer and processor is getting bigger. Smithfield Foods is buying the Farmland Industries plant in Dubuque, Iowa. This deal should be complete by mid-May. 
   The top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 percent to 62 percent.  
   The market share of the top four soybean crushers has jumped from 54 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four turkey processors now control 42 percent of production. 
   Forty-nine percent of all chicken broilers are now slaughtered by the four largest firms. The top four firms control 67 percent of ethanol production. 
   The top four sheep, poultry, wet corn, and dry corn processors now control 73 percent, 55 percent, 74 percent, and 57 percent of the market, respectively. 
   The four largest grain buyers control nearly 40 percent of elevator facilities. 
   By conventional measures, none of these markets are really competitive. 
   According to the economic literature, markets are no longer competitive if the top four firms control over 40 percent. In all the markets I just listed, the market share of the top four firms is 40 percent or more. So there really is no effective competition in these processing markets. 
   But now, with this explosion of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, marketing agreements, and anticompetitive behavior by the largest firms, these and other commodity markets are becoming more and more concentrated by the day. 
   Last week, the Senate passed a resolution 99-1, expressing our feelings on the 1996 Farm bill. It read,  
   Congress is committed to giving this crisis in agriculture ..... its full attention by reforming rural policies to alleviate the farm price crisis, [and] ensuring competitive markets .....  
   We are committed to having the debate about what kind of changes we could make that would provide some real help for family farmers, that would enable family farmers to get a decent price, that would provide some income for families, what kind of steps we could take that will put some free enterprise back into the food industry and deal with all the concentration of power. 
   Other Senators may have different ideas. I just want us to address this crisis. I don't want us to turn our gaze away from our family farmers. And I say to my colleagues, on this anniversary of the Freedom of Fail Bill, we need a new farm bill--and I will come to the floor, every opportunity I have to speak about the economic convulsion this legislation has caused in our rural communities. 
   I say to all of my colleagues who talked about how we were going to get the Government off the farm, we were going to lower the loan rate, and do this through deregulation and exports, that we have an honest to goodness depression in agriculture. We have the best people in the world working 20 hours a day who are being spit out of the economy. We have record low income, record low prices, broken dreams and lives, and broken families. 
   We had close to 3,000 farmers who came here last week. It was riveting. It was pouring rain, but they were down on The Mall. We had 500 farmers from Minnesota. Most all of them came by bus. They don't have money to come by jet. Many of them are older. They came with their children and grandchildren. They did not come here for the fun of it. They came here because the reality is, this will be their last bus trip. They are not going to be able to come to Washington to talk about agriculture. They are not going to be farming any longer. These family farmers are not going to be farming any longer unless we deal with the price crisis. 
   Right now, the price of what they get is way below the cost of production. Only if you have huge amounts of capital can you go on. People eating at the dinner table are doing fine. The IVVs, and the Con-Agras and big grain companies are doing fine. But our dairy and crop farmers and livestock producers are going under. 
   This is, unfortunately, again the anniversary, and we have to write a new farm bill. 
   That is my cry as a Senator from Minnesota from the heartland of America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I had a chance before the last break to talk about a commitment we made to Capitol Hill police. 
   We lost two fine officers. They were slain. We went to their service. We made it clear that we thanked them for the ways in which they protect the public, for the ways in which they protect us. We said we never want this to happen again. 
   We have posts where there is 1 officer with 20 and 30 and 40 people streaming in. We made the commitment that we were going to have at least two officers at every post. 
   I know there are Senators, such as Senator BENNETT, who are in key positions and who care deeply about this. Senator REID was a Capitol Hill policeman. There are others as well. 
   We have to get this appropriations bill right. We need to hire more officers. We need to make sure the money is there for overtime so we don't have one officer at each post. 
   This can't go on and on because if we don't do this, there will come a day when, unfortunately, someone will show up--someone who may be insane, someone who will take a life, or lives. One officer at a post and not two officers at a post is an untenable security situation. 
   My plea to colleagues is, we need to get this right for the public and for the Capitol Hill police. We made this commitment. I think Democrats and Republicans alike care about this. 
   I thank my colleagues. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Two minutes for each side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is a sense-of-the-Congress amendment. It thanks the people who came here for the rally for rural America. It makes it clear that the Congress has heard their plea and that we will respond with a clear and strong message to alleviate the agricultural price crisis, to ensure competitive markets, to invest in rural education and health care, and to ensure a safe and secure food supply for all. 
   The crop insurance bill is a good bill. I thank my colleagues for the work. I want to make sure with this amendment we are clear this is just the first step. We need to do much more. We hear the people who came. We commend them for coming. Many of them came by bus from Minnesota and many other States. We are committed to taking some important action that will make a positive difference. 
   That is what this sense-of-the-Senate amendment is all about. When colleagues vote for this, I think it is a strong vote. We will come back with specific proposals which will be a part of what I think this amendment calls for. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wanted to make sure that I object. I don't know if we have to go through the whole thing. The majority leader said we are talking in Washingtonese. To be clear about it, I think the bill was harsh. It has a disproportionate impact on the poorest citizens, and it takes some off the hook---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. We object to it being separated out. We want to focus on this bill, and we want to have an opportunity to have further discussion and debate on the floor of the Senate. So I object on that basis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First of all, on the time, I have to decide on the second amendment. On the first amendment, it is not my wish to go on and on, but I would not agree to 30 minutes. There were 2,500 to 3,000 farmers, and 500 came from Minnesota. I would like to commend them for the Rally for Rural America, and call on Congress to take some action to deal with the crisis in our rural communities. I don't think I can give justice to what they did in 30 minutes. Other Senators would like to speak as well. I would not agree to only 30 minutes. 
   The second point I wish to make is that these are agriculture-related amendments. I wish to make sure that is acceptable to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will object to the whole agreement because these amendments are agriculture-related. I don't think they would necessarily be ruled relevant to crop insurance. I can do the sense-of-the-Senate amendment within an hour, I think, basically recognizing and congratulating people for coming and talking about our commitment to take some action. I might not even do a second amendment. Certainly, they are agriculture-related. There isn't anybody in the world who would say that the sense-of-the-Senate is not agriculture-related, dealing with the price crisis. But I thought that would be acceptable. If it technically has to be relevant to crop insurance, that would be out of order. If it is out of order, I will not agree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to achieve the objective within an hour of time. I can do that. I am not trying to hold up the bill. I think I can do that. I am not going to agree if I am going to be ruled out of order. Maybe we can proceed on that basis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This would be for a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. If it could be in the agreement that there could be 1 hour and there would not be objection to it---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my distinguished colleagues, the Senator from Kansas and the Senator from Nebraska, and I also thank the Senator from Indiana, for this legislation. I think this is a terribly important piece of legislation. I think this is good legislation. So I say to my colleague from Kansas, I thank him for his excellent piece of legislation. 
   Both Senator KERREY and I thank the chairman for having this legislation on the floor. It is substantive and important, and I thank him for his work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator for his work. 
   Mr. President, I want to go through this amendment. This is a sense-of-the-Congress resolution on the Rally for Rural America, the rally about the rural crisis that just took place in Washington, DC. Let me simply talk about what happened. 
   Starting Sunday night, we started out with a wonderful prayer service, an ecumenical service. It was nourishing. The church was packed here in the city just a few blocks away from the Senate. There were some beautiful words that were uttered, but in particular I remember one of the ministers. She said, ``We have taken the culture out of agriculture.'' I thought a lot about that. I think that is the reason why so many people came to the Nation's Capital, because for many of our family farmers this could very well be their last bus ride here. 
   We had from around the country, I don't want to exaggerate because that does not do justice to people, but I guess somewhere around 2,500, 3,000 people, many of them family farmers. From the State of Minnesota, we had close to 500 people here, most of them family farmers. I point out to my colleagues, this was an unusual gathering. This was a historic gathering. This is probably the most family farmers who have come to the Nation's Capital, I would say, in the last 20 or 25 years, at least from the State of Minnesota. 
   I want my colleagues to also know that most of these farmers came by bus. They did not come by jet. They didn't have the money to come by jet. They came by bus. Many of them are elderly. A good number of them came with their grandchildren. They came to Washington, DC, for two reasons. 
   First of all, they came to the Nation's Capital to try to have a conversation with America, to make sure people in the country know what is happening. I think one of the challenges for us is that, with all the news about the booming stock market and the booming economy, the vast majority of people in the country have not a clue what is happening to family farmers. I do not think they have a clue. This is a good country and we have a lot of good people in our country. We have good people in the Senate and the House. I hope, and I think the farmers really hope, this gathering in the Nation's Capital will bring out the goodness in us. 
   Right now what we have, and I am not even going to talk about all the statistics, record low income. We have record low prices. We have, as I said yesterday, many broken dreams and broken lives and broken families. I am talking about people who were good managers of the land. I am talking about people who work 19 hours a day. But the fact is--and I say this to my colleagues--time is not on the side of many family farmers in my State and many other States. They are simply going to go under. We are going to lose many of our producers. We could lose as many as another 2,000 family farmers in Minnesota this year. 
   People came to the Nation's Capital to say: We call upon you to respond to the needs, circumstances and concerns of our lives. 
   What this sense of the Congress says is that the participants in the Rally for Rural America are commended and that their pleas have been heard. 
   I think people should be commended for coming from such a long distance away and sacrificing so much to be here. They would not have come here, except they are hoping we can make some changes that will help them and their families, not only family farmers but our rural communities. 
   The Congress should respond with a clear and strong message to the participants, rural families, that Congress is committed to giving the crisis in agriculture and all America its full attention by reforming rural policies in a manner that will: No. 1, alleviate the agricultural price crisis; No. 2, ensure competitive markets; No. 3, invest in rural education and health care; No. 4, protect our Nation's resources for future generations; and, No. 5, ensure a safe and secure food supply. 
   I say to my colleagues, I worded this in such a way that leaves plenty of room for different interpretations as to how to accomplish these goals. We do not all agree. I understand that. 
   The Senator from Indiana, the chairman of the committee, is someone--I have said it to my own family members, I have said it to people in Minnesota--for whom I have the most respect. It is the truth. I say it; I mean it. I would not say it to my own children if I did not mean it. We do not agree on the Freedom to Farm bill, which I call the Freedom to Fail bill. But this sense-of-the-Congress resolution is broad in its interpretation. It is  just an effort on my part, as a Senator from Minnesota, to say to all the people who came: I acknowledge the fact that you came. It is not as if you come here and we do not go to work to try to do something. This bill is an effort to try to respond. 
   But it is but only one piece. For my own part, I believe we must respond to the price crisis. People cannot--they will not --be able to survive right now unless there is some income stabilization, unless there is some safety net, unless there is some way they can have some leverage to get a decent price in the marketplace. That is the missing piece of Freedom to Farm or Freedom to Fail. Flexibility is good. But that has not worked, and I see it every day in every community that I am in. I do not want to just keep visiting with people and listening to good people and caring about good people without trying to get the Senate on record that we are going to take some action. That is part of what this resolution is about. 
   We can have the debate about what kind of changes we could make that would provide some real help for family farmers, that would enable family farmers to get a decent price, that would provide some income for families, what kind of steps we could take that will put some free enterprise back into the food industry and deal with all the concentration of power. 
   For my own part, I do think there is a very strong correlation between three and four firms dominating 60 to 70 percent of the market, and family farmers not getting a decent price. I find it puzzling. I find it more than puzzling. I find it to be an outrage that so many of our producers are facing extinction but the packers and the big grain companies are doing well--in some cases receiving record profits. The gap, the farm/retail spread grows wider and wider, and the gap between what people pay at the grocery store and what the farmers get for what they produce grows wider and wider. 
   I am saying we have to have more competitive markets. I am saying we want to make a commitment to sustainable agriculture. 
   I did not say in this resolution, although I think it is terribly important and I know Senator CONRAD would be the first one to talk about this, that we need to have a fair trade policy. More than anything else, I come to the floor of the Senate wanting to acknowledge the presence of close to 3,000 farmers and people from rural America. They were here yesterday in the pouring rain under a tent on the Capitol mall. People came to speak out for themselves. They came to meet with Representatives and Senators. They did not come because they have some party strategy. They did not come because they had a particular partisan orientation. They are thinking about their own families and their own communities. 
   I wish to say on the floor of the Senate, because I am lucky enough to get a chance to speak on the floor of the Senate and these farmers cannot speak on the floor of the Senate, there is an economic convulsion taking place in agriculture today. 
   Many wonderful people are being spit out of the economy. Too many lives are being shattered. The health and the vitality of our communities in rural North Dakota or Minnesota or any of the other heartland States is not based upon the number of acres farmed or the number of animals someone owns, but the number of family farmers who live in these communities. 
   Whether we are talking about dairy farmers or corn growers or wheat growers or livestock producers, it is an absolutely intolerable situation--a situation from which we cannot turn our gaze away. 
   For me to summarize, the findings talk about thousands of rural citizens and families and the religious communities coming to Washington to participate in the rally. The religious communities' voice was wonderful. 
   The findings talk about a broad coalition of over 30 farm, environmental, and labor organizations that are concerned that rural America has been left behind during this time of prosperity that participated in organizing the Rally for Rural America. I thank the AFL-CIO for being here. I thank Bernie Brommer, the president of the Minnesota AFL-CIO, for being here. I thank Jerry Macaffey from AFSCME for speaking at the rally. I congratulate them for being here. The amendment makes the point that although the majority of America is reaping the benefits of a strong economy, rural America is facing the toughest times. 
   The findings in this amendment talk about the record low prices on the farms and the ranches, and the way in which they have rippled throughout rural America, causing rural communities to face all kinds of challenges: A depressed farm economy, an escalation of the mergers and the acquisitions, a loss of businesses and jobs on Main Street, an erosion of health care and education, a decline in infrastructure, and a loss of independent family farmers. 
   The purpose for this resolution: ``To express the sense of Congress regarding the Rally for Rural America and the rural crisis'' is to thank people for being here and to talk about and make it clear that we will, in fact, respond with a clear and strong message to the participants, that we are committed to dealing with this crisis, that we are committed to giving it our full attention, in a manner that will alleviate the agricultural price crisis, that will ensure competitive markets, that will lead to an investment in rural education and health care, protect our natural resources, and ensure a safe and secure food supply. 
   If, in fact, we continue to lose our producers, and if, in fact, we go the trend of an increasingly corporatized, industrialized agriculture, it will be a transition that our country will deeply regret. 
   I think this is very important for America. I tell you, my heart and soul goes out to the people who were here. I hope there will be good support for this sense-of-the-Senate amendment to this very good piece of legislation. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from North Dakota. 
   I do want to point out that there are two parts to this sense-of-the-Senate amendment. One part is to thank the farmers and others for being here. The second part is to put us on record and say we will respond and, in particular, we will respond to the price crisis. We are going to talk about how to ensure competitive markets. For my part, I think that means strong antitrust action. We are going to invest. We are going to understand that in the discussion about education and health care--these are rural issues as well--we are talking about sustainable agriculture. We will make a commitment to responding. 
   This is only a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. However, I don't view it as just being symbolic. I think it would be great to have a strong vote. I want it to be a bipartisan vote. I would love to see us work on the additional pieces Senator DORGAN and I have talked about together, as Democrats and Republicans. I pray--I don't use that word very often on the floor of the Senate--that we will make some changes so our producers, our family farmers, will have a fighting chance to earn a decent living so they can give their children the care they know they need and deserve. 
   This is thanking these farmers, but it is also putting the Senate on record that we, in fact, are going to respond. That is the second part. That is an important part. 
   Yes, it is just a sense of the Senate, but I will be coming back over and over again talking about the sense of the Senate with my own ideas about how we can make a difference. Other Senators may have different ideas. I just want us to address it. I don't want us to put family farmers in Minnesota or North Dakota or Indiana, or anywhere, in parentheses or in brackets and act as though this isn't happening. 
   I don't want us to turn our gaze away from them. I don't want there to be an inaction. That is the why of this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I was very pleased to have the Senator speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if I may respond to my colleague for a moment, first of all, I thank him for the words. I will ask for the yeas and nays. I do want to have a vote on this amendment. My request will be if the majority leader wants to do it tomorrow--I was trying to come out and help facilitate this--I wonder whether or not we could at least have 2 minutes to summarize before the vote. I hope that will be the case. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000322</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Senator's word is good enough for me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today I am offering a resolution in support of the President's decision to introduce a China resolution at the annual meeting of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva on March 20th and urging the President to make every effort necessary to pass it. This important resolution calls on China to end its human rights abuses. 
   The President must ensure that this resolution be placed on the agenda of the full Human Rights Commission. He must enlist support for this resolution by other governments, especially by the European Union, and get them to cosponsor it. Year after year China has used a parliamentary tactic known as a ``no-action'' motion so that resolutions condemning its human rights abuses are struck down before they are even placed on the agenda of the full Commission. We must not allow this to happen this year. 
   Last year the Senate passed a resolution urging the United States to introduce a resolution condemning China's human rights practices at the 1999 Geneva meeting. Although the administration introduced a resolution, it was kept off the agenda of the full Commission by a ``no-action'' motion of China. It had no co-sponsors and received little support from European and other industrialized nations. The resolution did not pass because it didn't even come up. 
   This year the President announced in January his decision to again introduce a resolution in Geneva condemning China's human rights practices. According to the Administration the goal of the resolution is to ``shine an international spotlight directly on China's human rights practices'' through ``international action.'' But, as of today, there has been little international action. The resolution still has no co-sponsors. 
   When President Clinton formally delinked trade and human rights in 1994, he pledged, on the record, that the US would ``step up its efforts, in cooperation with other states, to insist that the United Nations Human Rights Commission pass a resolution dealing with the serious human rights abuses in China.'' While the U.S. has claimed an intention at least to speak out on human rights, the substance of US-China relations--trade, military contacts, high level summits--go foward while Chinese leaders continue to crack down on dissidents throughout the country of over one billion. 
   The Chinese government continues to commit widespread abuses and has taken actions that flagrantly violate the commitment it has made to respect internationally-recognized human rights. Just this week Mary Richardson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, announced that she is deeply concerned about the deterioration in China's human rights practices. Mr. Shen Guofang, China's Deputy Representative at the United Nations said, ``China now has the best human rights situation in its history.'' This is unbelievable. Is the current system the best China has to offer its own citizens? If this is so, this issue will remain a point of contention between China and the international community. 
   In January, China convicted two of the last leaders of the Chinese Democracy Party. These disgraceful arrests were part of a further crackdown by the government on efforts to form the country's first opposition party. The arrests worked--they effectively obliterated the Party. But those fighting for democracy in China have not forgotten those they have lost, and they continue to fight. 
   Chinese authorities blocked the delivery of foreign donations to help the families of people killed in the crackdown on the Tiananmen student democracy movement. Mr. Lu Wenhe, a Chinese citizen who has lived in the US for twenty years, was detained in Beijing on his way to meet a woman whose 17-year-old son was shot dead by soldiers in 1989. Mr. Lu was forced to sign over his check to an officer of the Shanghai State Security Bureau. Donors stopped payment on the check but Chinese authorities continued to harass Mr. Lu's parents in Shanghai to come up with the money or risk losing their apartment and car. 
   And China continues to limit freedom of information. In January Chinese authorities arrested a scholar from Pennsylvania. Mr. Song, a librarian at Dickinson College and a scholar of China's cultural revolution, was formally charged with ``the purchase and illegal provision of intelligence to foreigners.'' He was held for over four months. The ``intelligence'' that he is charged with possessing were documents that were already published as part of a collection of historical materials relating to the Cultural Revolution. Nothing could better illustrate the Chinese authorities' determination to suppress history or thought than the arrest of a scholar engaged in historical research. 
   Since September, Beijing has arrested thousands of practitioners of Falun Gong and Zhong Gong, both popular spiritual movements, whose threats to the regime are that they are not under the Party's control. President Zemin announced in January that crushing the Falum Gong movement was one of the ``three major political struggles'' of 1999. 
   The Department of State's 1999 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices details an extraordinary amount of human rights violations. In October a Falum Gong practitioner in Shandong died from being beaten while in police custody. The official media reported she had 
   died from a heart attack. According to Chinese authorities, two others who died in police custody jumped from a moving train. In March the Western press reported a 1997 case in which police executed four farmers in rural China over a monetary dispute.  
   The arrested dissidents and their courageous supporters deserve our full backing, and the administration's, in their historic struggle to bring democracy to China. In light of China's still deteriorating human rights record, I urge the administration to make all efforts necessary to pass its resolution in Geneva. Past experience has demonstrated that, when the United States has applied sustained pressure, the Chinese authorities have responded in ways that signal their willingness to engage on the issue of human rights. This pressure needs to be exercised now. 
   By ensuring that this resolution be placed on the agenda of the full Human Rights Commission, and enlisting support of the resolution and soliciting cosponsors of it by other governments, the United States can truly ``shine an international spotlight directly on China's human rights practices'' through ``international action,'' and not just pay it lip service. The US must demonstrate its true commitment to securing China's adherence to human rights standards. 
   It is time for the United States to provide the leadership on which the people of China depend. We must take action to get this important resolution passed. The UN Human Rights Commission is the major international body which oversees the human rights conditions of all states. Getting this resolution placed on the agenda of the full Human Rights Commission will foster substantive debate on human rights in China and Tibet. 
   As Americans, we must take action and lead the international effort to condemn the human rights situation in China and Tibet. I hope my colleagues will join me in passing this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Rhode Island, if he will give me 1 minute, I will be pleased for him to have the last 4 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank Senator KENNEDY for this amendment. I want to mention the part of this amendment I have had a chance to work on. I thank the Senator for letting me do this with him. It is the Teacher Corps part, where we basically put together a marriage of school districts that need teachers in certain areas along with schools of education. It is actually after students have already graduated, but they may want to go back and get certification, or they may be in their forties or fifties and go into teaching. 
   During that 2-year certification period, it will be tuition free if they agree to teach in these areas for 3 years. It is allocated to local needs, it puts everything together in a promising way, and it is good for inner-city and suburban schools. It puts the schools together with good teachers. Everybody agrees this is the key. 
   I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may I ask one question? What happened to our 10-minute votes? Can we try to do these in 10 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I want to be clear that I will have a second-degree amendment to the Feinstein amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do my colleagues have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I shall not take all my time. I will be interested in hearing from my colleagues. Then I will have a second-degree amendment after this debate is over. 
   I hope Senators will look at the empirical evidence. I appreciate the sentiment behind this amendment, but I think it is profoundly mistaken. Part of the language reads:  
   No education funds appropriated under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 shall be made available to a local educational agency in a State unless the State demonstrates to the Secretary of Education that the State has adopted a policy prohibiting the practice of social promotion.  
   Then it goes on to be a definition. 
   I want my colleagues to carefully examine the evidence. I want to offer a second-degree amendment which says these provisions would apply as long as we make sure every child has the same opportunity to learn. 
   We had testimony in the HELP Committee from Dr. Hauser, who is a professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He has received numerous awards. He also serves on the Board of Test and Assessment for the National Research Council. He is a prolific writer, a very key researcher in the field. 
   Can I summarize his findings? His findings related to social promotion:  
   Students who have been held back typically do not catch up. Low-performing students learn more if they are promoted even without remedial help than if they are held back. Students who have been held back are much more likely to drop out before completing high school. The long-term costs of holding students back are high to students and to school systems. The negative effect of holding students back are often invisible to those who make retention decisions because they occur many years later.  
   I now wish to move on to some of the critical findings. There is abundant evidence which shows that this practice of high stakes testing and holding kids back as young as age 8 has not only been unsuccessful but it is also harmful. It is ethically questionable, basically, to experiment with our children. I am going to cite evidence. Maybe my colleagues can refute it. I am not sure they can. 
   First of all, low-achieving students do better academically if they move forward with their peers rather than if they are held back. Dozens of studies over the past two decades have found that retaining students contributes to academic failure and behavioral difficulties rather than success in school. That is the evidence. 
   I quote from ``Using Standards and Assessments To Support Student Learning,'' Linda Darling-Hammond and Beverly Falk. Linda Darling Hammond addressed our caucus. She is a distinguished professor at Stanford University. This piece was in the Phi Delta Kappan, November 1997. A scientific review of 63 controlled studies of grade retention through the mid-1980's revealed that 54 of the 63 yielded overall negative effects of retention. 
   The best of these studies have shown the negative effects of retention. The authors concluded that ``[o]n average, retained children are worse off than their promoted counterparts on both personal adjustment and academic outcomes.'' 
   I am just giving my colleagues the evidence. 
   Ignoring educational research, too many of us and too many school districts have continued to hold out retention as educational reform instead of the failed approach that it is. 
   In Chicago, they tried to do this in the 1970s and 1980s, and it failed. Then  they decided to do it again. Here is some of the data that is now forthcoming:  
   In 1998, researchers Ann McCoy and Arthur Reynolds at the University of Wiconsin-Madison completed longitudinal studies on the population of the Chicago students retained in grade. Their report, cited above, found ``[f]or all achievement comparisons, retained children consistently underperformed their promoted [low-achieving] peers, and usually significantly. No positive effects of grade retention were detected.''  
   There is no evidence that this works.  
   They concluded that grade retention is, at best, an insufficient intervention strategy for promoting student achievement and, at worst, it impeded children's academic success and should be substantially modified or replaced by programs and policies which demonstrate effectiveness ..... 
   On January 21, 1999, the New York Times reported that a whopping 5,500 Chicago students are repeating the third grade and 964 are repeating the third grade for a second time. 
   The Washington Post reported on August 1, 1999, that 1,300 15-year-old Chicago students were sent to ``academic halfway houses between the eighth and ninth grades'' because of failing scores.  
   The evidence from all of the studies is that retention leads to increased school dropouts. ``Researchers at the University of Wisconsin also found that 30 percent of those who were retained dropped out of school compared to 21 percent of those students who were not,'' controlling for academic ability; thus, there was a 42-percent increase in dropping out. That is from a piece titled ``Grade Retention Doesn't Work,'' Arthur Reynolds, Judy Temple, Ann McCoy, Educational Week, September 17, 1997.  
   The August 21, 1999, New York Times reported preliminary results showing that 35 to 40 percent of the third, sixth, and eighth graders who took standardized tests at the end of mandatory summer school in New York City had failed to make the required score ..... Predictions are that many other students will be held back.  
   Chicago showed similar results following mandatory summer school during its first 2 years. Summer school has not moved a large extent of these low-achieving students to acceptable levels of performance. They are held back, and when they are held back, they do not do better; they do worse. 
   Research does show that there are preventive measures that do work, that if you put the emphasis--are we surprised?--into early childhood development, it makes a huge difference.  
   Researchers found preschool participation was associated with a 24-percent reduction in the rate of school dropout and that participation for 5 or 6 years was associated with a 27-percent reduction in the rate of early school dropout .....  
   My second-degree amendment, which we will get to, says that the provisions of this section will not apply to any child who was not afforded by the State educational agency or the local educational agency an opportunity to learn the material necessary to meet the achievement standards. I do not know how colleagues can be opposed to it. I hope we will put the two amendments together. 
   When I offer the second-degree amendment, I will list specifically what I have in mind. Again, I have cited study after study which shows retention has not worked. I have cited study after study which show it leads to increased dropout. I have cited study after study by the best people in the country, including those who testified before our committee and addressed our own Democratic caucus, that this is a mistake. Then what I said is, at least let's make sure these children have the same opportunity to achieve these results, to pass these tests, before we make this operational. 
   I will yield the floor and listen to my colleagues, but when we look at what is going on with these tests and the assessments, I hardly think retention has been a successful strategy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time does my colleague from California have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. How much time do I have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I think that is my time. I am the one opposing the amendment. 
   Mr. REID addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, it would seem to me that if we are talking about children doing well--and we want to look at the evidence about what makes for a good education and equal opportunity for every one of our children--then the second-degree amendment that I have to this amendment would be agreed to. 
   What I am simply saying with the second-degree amendment is: Let's make sure, in fact, every child has had the opportunity to learn the material that is necessary to meet the achievement standards. Don't we want to make sure that every child has had that opportunity? 
   I talk about how a child has to be taught by fully certified or qualified teachers as defined by the State; that the child's parents have multiple opportunities for parental involvement; that the child has access to high instructional materials; that the child has the opportunity to reach the highest performance level, regardless of income or disability; that the child receives the services for which the child is eligible under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act; that the child receives proper bilingual education and special education services; and that the child has good early childhood development. Let's get real. If you do not do that, then we already know which children are going to fail. I am saying, before you start failing third graders and holding them back, let's make sure every third grader has the same opportunity to do well. 
   Does anybody on the floor of the Senate want to argue that you do not need to do that first? When Secretary Riley testified, he said: Yes. Let's have standards, but let's also make sure every child has the same opportunity to meet those standards. 
   This is incredible. We do not make the investment in early childhood development. We do not have the title I money. We do not put the money into bilingual education. We do not make sure these children have the same support services. We do not do 
   enough to help children who are in some schools where they do not have the good teachers and they do not have adequate resources. 
   Without doing that, and without making that commitment to every child having the same opportunity to learn--it is called equity; it is called equality of opportunity--then what we do is we fail these students. And then we pound our chests and say: We're being rigorous, and we have done something good for these children. That is my first point. 
   My second point is, in all due respect, the superintendent from the Chicago schools can say one thing, but I say to the Senator from California and other Senators, I have come out on the floor and I have combined the best evidence of studies around the country. 
   Again, I go to Robert Hauser, who is an acknowledged expert. He testified before our HELP Committee. Here are what his findings were related to retention: Students who have been held back, they don't catch up. You are not doing them any favor. Low-performing students learn more even if they are promoted, even without remedial help, than if they are held back. Students who have been held back are much more likely to drop out of school. 
   In all due respect--we talk about Chicago--there was an independent study done, the 4-year Evaluation Report of the Chicago Public Schools Leadership by Parents United For Responsible Education and the Chicago Association of Local School Councils. This is what they found on retention: rising dropout rates, declining enrollment citywide, increased instructional time devoted to testing for the tests. That is another thing the teachers are ending up doing, testing for the test. Just rote drills, memorization. 
   Then, drawing from the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund letter, which pulled together such important research, the fact is, there is abundant evidence that--frankly, I have not heard any of my colleagues refute any of it--not only has retention been unsuccessful but it has been harmful. 
   I cited a number of different studies. I cited the work of Linda Darling Hammon, who addressed us Democrats. In fact, I asked her about this. She said that as we look at dozens of studies that have been done over the past two decades, they have found that retaining students contributes to academic failure and behavioral difficulties rather than success in school. 
   Then I went on and talked about work that the professor had also done with Beverly Falk. Then, I went on and quoted from another study: ``Grade Level Retention Effects: A Meta-Analysis of Research Studies,'' C.T. Holmes, in Flunking Grades: Research and Policies on Retention, 
   that concluded that on average retained children are worse off because of retention. 
   Then I went on and quoted about four or five different studies of what has been going on in Chicago and New York and quoted from the Washington Post and the New York Times and pointed out that the summer school remedial program didn't even help these kids. 
   We don't have the evidence that retention has helped these kids because there isn't the evidence. The evidence is the retention has had a harmful effect on these kids. These kids don't do better; they do worse. They drop out of school. It has a devastating impact. If you keep them in age-appropriate settings, you move them on, but you give them the additional help. We should do that. If you want to make sure by the time they graduate they are, indeed, qualified, do that, but don't do something that is harmful. 
   Given the evidence, I don't know how we can support this amendment unless my second-degree amendment is accepted, which says, again, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any child who was not afforded by the State educational agency or the local educational agency an opportunity to learn the material necessary to meet the State achievement standards. 
   Do my colleagues mean to tell me they are going to vote for retention when the evidence shows it is harmful and they won't even vote for an amendment that says, let's make sure that at least every child has the same opportunity to pass these tests before we fail them and hurt them? That is unbelievable. 
   I would be interested, if my colleagues have a lot of evidence from across the country that retention has been a great reform that has helped these children who have been retained, who have been flunked as young as age 8. I see no evidence. 
   I retain the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague says: What the Senator has said is that the child has to be taught by fully certified or qualified teachers. 
   You don't have that. You don't have the certified or qualified teachers, but you are willing to go ahead and flunk these kids. 
   I am saying the children who are in classes as young as age 8, who don't have fully certified and qualified teachers, probably ought not to be flunked and held back because other kids in other schools who had highly qualified and certified teachers were able to pass those tests. Don't Senators think we should include an amendment which would say every child is going to have the same opportunity to pass these tests? That is an incredible argument to make. To make an argument to Senators, wait a minute, Senators, you can't vote for the Wellstone second-degree amendment because he is saying there have to be qualified and certified teachers before we flunk these third graders, that is unbelievable. That is exactly the point of my amendment. 
   Let us have the standards, but let's make sure all the children have the same opportunity to achieve those standards. If the second-degree amendment is accepted, if passed, then we have an amendment that talks about standards, but we also have an amendment that makes sure these children have the same chance to reach those standards. 
   I hate to say this but, one more time, I have presented about 10 different studies. I have presented the best testimony we have had in the Senate. I have presented the best testimony we had in our Senate Democratic conference about retention. Again, we had what the superintendent of the Chicago schools said. 
   Well, I gave the Senate a different report, a 4-year independent evaluation: rising dropout rates, declining enrollment citywide. Then I have drawn on the best research from around the country, and the Senator from California and the Senator from Alabama have not refuted any of it. 
   I don't want to repeat it again, but please vote on the facts. What did they show? Students who have been held back typically don't catch up. Actually, low-performing students learn more if they are promoted even without remedial help than if they are held back. Students who have been held back are much more likely to drop out. 
   With all due respect, there is not a shred of evidence that my colleagues have presented which shows retention works. 
   Again, I have a second-degree amendment which says, let's at least make sure every child has the same opportunity to pass these tests, determining whether or not they will pass a grade. That seems to me to be reasonable. Let's make sure they have certified teachers. Let's make sure we fund it properly, fund title I. Let's make sure we have the bilingual education fund so the kids who come from homes where English is a second language, such as the Hmong children in St. Paul, have a chance. Why would that not be accepted? 
   And the second point I made is, right now, what we have out here is an amendment that says retention is really good, it is all about rigor but there is not a shred of evidence that it works for these children. In addition, it is an amendment which doesn't recognize that these children aren't going to do well unless we get it right on the prevention piece. 
   I have a second-degree amendment that talks about what we should do. I ask unanimous consent that I may send my second-degree amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Chair notify me when the time has expired--when the other side's time has expired? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is an amendment I think Senators can vote for and I think feel comfortable about because, on the one hand, you can vote for the first-degree amendment, but you can also vote for the first-degree amendment with the understanding that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any child who was not afforded, by the State educational agency or the local educational agency, an opportunity to learn the material necessary to meet the State achievement standards. 
   I am simply saying, let's make sure every child is afforded the opportunity to do well on these achievement standards. This says: ``the child has been taught by fully certified or qualified teachers as defined by the State; the child's parents had multiple opportunities for parental involvement.'' 
   My colleague asked what that meant. That means to understand what homework is about, make sure you know when you can come in, understand what the standardized tests are about, understand how the child's performance is being measured. We are all for parent involvement. 
   Next is: ``the child had access to high quality instructional materials and instructional resources''--how can anybody be opposed to that?--``to ensure that the child had the opportunity to achieve the highest performance levels, regardless of disability, income, and background; the child received the services for which the child is eligible under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act ..... and if necessary, the child received proper bilingual education and special education services, and that the child had the opportunity to receive high quality early childhood education [developmental child care].'' 
   Colleagues, even if you don't believe me, all I have to tell you in this debate is, I presented all kinds of evidence suggesting that retention has been harmful and hasn't worked. I never was refuted at all. Now what I am saying is that even if you want to go in that direction, at least let's make sure that every child has the opportunity to do well in these tests and to achieve, that there are highly qualified instructors and certified teachers, that we have followed through on title I commitment, that we make sure they are the same resources. 
   Don't you think we want to make sure children in our schools have the lab facilities and the textbooks and the good teachers, that there has been good pre-K education? Let's make sure every one of our children has had the same opportunity to achieve. That is what this amendment says. I hope there will be 100 votes for it. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time remains? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, all this amendment says is let's have the standards, though I presented a lot of irrefutable evidence about retention not working and even being harmful. I understand the politics of some of these votes. It is not a pretty picture if anybody cares about the evidence. 
   This second-degree amendment requires that if you are going to have these tests and these standards which determine whether or not a child as young as age 8 passes or not, or is held back, especially if retention is so harmful, and there is no evidence it is helping children--I thought we were trying to help the children--at least let's ensure we have met the standards that all these children have had the opportunity to pass these tests and do well. 
   My colleague from Alabama says I am trying to gut the amendment because by this amendment we want to ensure these children are taught by fully certified and qualified teachers. If that guts his amendment, his amendment should be gutted. 
   To make sure the child has had access to high-quality instructional material, to make sure the child has received the services for which the child was eligible under title II, to make sure the child has received adequate bilingual education, to make sure the child has had the opportunity to receive high-quality early childhood education, this is a no-brainer, colleagues. 
   We all know this is critical to making sure the children do well in school. My colleague was referred to those who graduate and have a third-grade reading level. What I am talking about is critical to that. Let's make sure that before we fail all of these children and act as if that is doing something great for them, why don't we make sure those children also have the same opportunity to do well and to pass our achievement tests. 
   Is it too much to ask other Senators to vote in favor of certified and qualified teachers, making sure there is parental involvement, making sure there are good instructional materials, making sure we live up to our title I commitments, and making sure there is adequate bilingual education?  
   Colleagues, you know this is critically important. Let's vote for ``standards.'' That is the way you view it. But let's also vote for equality of opportunity for all of our children. 
   I especially thank the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund for all of the research they have pulled together that I have been able to present today about why it is so important that we pass the second-degree amendment and meet the test of decency. This is true equality of opportunity for our children. If you do not do that, then what you have done is very harmful. It is brutal. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
   Are my colleagues prepared to yield the remainder of time? 
   I am prepared to yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me conclude this way. 
   I think there is a bitter irony here. There is no evidence the retention works, and there is a certain amount of evidence that it is harmful. We should let the States decide, for those colleagues who worry about States and States making decisions. This amendment requires States to do retention, and if they do not do retention, then they are not going to get education funds. 
   That is flaw No. 1. I think some of my colleagues would be troubled by that. Frankly, I think my colleague from Alabama would be troubled by that. 
   If the States decide, on the basis of what they know, not to do the retention because of all of the evidence, we are now saying: You have to do it, States, or we will cut off Federal money. 
   That is unbelievable. This amendment should be defeated for that reason. The Federal Government ought not to be doing that to States, especially given the evidence. 
   The second point my colleagues are bothered by is my second-degree amendment which says let's make sure every child has the same opportunity to do well in these achievement tests. Let's make sure these children are taught by fully qualified teachers, that there is parental involvement, that they have good instructional material, that we live up to our commitment on title I, that we make sure the child has had the opportunity to receive good early childhood development, that there is bilingual education available. 
   My colleagues are telling Members to vote against this? We are all for that. 
   The evidence says retention doesn't work and can be harmful. If your State decides it doesn't want to do that, it doesn't matter because now if Members vote for this amendment, they are telling States they have to have retention of students, even if it is harmful. If they don't do what they think is right, we will cut off Federal funds. 
   Do Members want to vote for that? 
   I have a second-degree amendment I think colleagues should vote for because it makes elementary sense. Let's make sure these children have the same opportunity for achievement on these tests. If we don't do what I suggest in this amendment and don't make that commitment, what we will have done to children will be very harmful, brutal, and unconscionable. 
   I yield back the remainder. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I defined that twice. I didn't know the Senator would speak against the amendment. I talked about the amendment three times. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. We want to make sure parents know what the homework requirements are, know what the standards are. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the Feinstein-Sessions amendment, No. 2876. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the Wellstone amendment No. 2878. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Sessions-Feinstein amendment says even if States decide, given the evidence, that retention and holding kids back does not work, States would have to do that. The Federal Government tells the States what to do and will cut off funds if they don't do it. 
   My amendment makes a difference. It says at least let's make sure every child has an opportunity to do well and to achieve on these tests, that there are certified teachers, that there is English as a second language, that there is high-quality educational materials, and that we provide support for kids. 
   If we do not do this, in the name of being tough, the only thing we are doing is punishing kids. Let's at least make the commitment that every child has the same opportunity to do well. 
   I am going to send to each colleague an NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund letter which brings together all the evidence and makes this compelling argument. 
   I hope my colleagues will vote for this equal opportunity to learn amendment. 
   Mr. SESSIONS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if colleagues will listen for a second, I have two points. First of all, the evidence is overwhelming. I went over evidence this afternoon. There was no rebuttal. Holding kids back doesn't work. That is not the real point. If your State decides that it doesn't want to hold kids back, this amendment says it doesn't make any difference; the Federal Government is going to cut off Federal funding. We are telling States what to do, to hold kids back no matter what you decide or we will cut Federal funding. 
   That is wrong. I hope there will be an overwhelming vote against this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. What is the request, again? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the purpose of this amendment--and I hope there will be a very strong vote for the amendment--is to call on the Secretary of Health and Human Services to report to the Congress on the extent and severity of child poverty in our country. I will make the connection to education in a moment. 
   We need to have some critical information about the welfare bill before reauthorization. That is what this amendment says. We ask the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide this Congress with critical information. The Congress has consented so far to allow welfare reform to continue without an honest accounting of how our actions impact our Nation's children. Before we reauthorize this bill, we need to know what has happened. 
   There is one missing ingredient when we talk about welfare, and that missing ingredient is information. Let me quote from some of the most knowledgeable people who are doing research in this area. The National Academy of Sciences convened a panel of leading researchers to evaluate the data and methods for measuring the effects of welfare reform. This is basically a quote from their report:  
   The gaps in the data infrastructure for determining the effects of welfare reform are numerous.  
   ``Numerous gaps in the data''--what does that mean? It means we have no understanding of what the effects of this legislation on the lives of people in our country--poor people, mainly women and children. The information is simply not collected, and we don't know because we don't ask. 
   The purpose of this amendment is to understand the effect of this legislation on child poverty before we reauthorize it. We need to know whether or not it is true, as has been reported in the data, that actually we are seeing an increase in the poverty of the poorest of the poor children--those children in households with less than half of the officially defined poverty income. We need to know what the gap is between the welfare bill and families working, and whether or not they are above the poverty level income, because the whole goal was to move people to economic self-sufficiency. We need to know what, in fact, is going on with programs such as the earned-income tax credit, or food stamp assistance, or Medicaid, and how that has affected the lives of poor children in America. 
   We need to do some policy evaluation. Too many people--Republicans and Democrats and the administration--brag about the fact that the rolls have been slashed by 50 percent since 1994. But how can anyone in good conscience use that as a measure of success alone? Reducing the rolls is easy. You just push people off the rolls, you close their cases, and you wish them good luck. 
   Reducing the rolls by half doesn't indicate whether or not we have reduced the poverty. The goal is to reduce the poverty of women and poor children in America. The question is whether or not people who have been pushed off the rolls are working and 
   at what kinds of jobs. Are they living-wage jobs? And the question is, What kind of child care do they have for their children? Do they still have medical assistance, or are they worse off because they have been cut off of medical assistance? The question is, What about the additional services for those families where maybe the single parent struggles with addiction, or maybe she has been battered over and over again and there needs to be additional support before this woman and her family can move to employment and decent wages. Are the support services being provided? 
   I think we have created a whole new class of working poor people in this country. We have created a whole new class--unless we call for a policy evaluation--of the ``disappeared.'' We don't know what is happening. We have been unwilling to do any serious policy evaluation. Gunnar Myrdal, the Swedish sociologist, once wrote that ignorance is never random. We don't know what we don't want to do. Before we reauthorize the welfare bill and as we move forward on an education piece of legislation, I would ask the Senate to go on record calling for an evaluation as to the effect of this legislation on poor children in our country. 
   Some would say: What are you doing, Senator WELLSTONE, calling for an evaluation on a welfare bill? This doesn't belong on an education bill. 
   If a child is living in poverty--and I try to stay very close to this question, as I care a great deal about what happens to poor children in America--the preliminary reports I have seen indicate we now have more children living in households below the poverty level of income. We see a deepening 
   of poverty in children in our country. 
   I argue that if a child is sick, if a family has been cut off medical assistance--and please remember that Families USA, 6 months ago or so, issued a report that there are 670,000 people in our country today who no longer have medical assistance because of the welfare bill--I argue that children don't do well in school when they do not receive adequate care, when they are sick, when they have an illness, or when they have tooth decay or an abscessed tooth. It is very hard for children to do well in school under those circumstances. I think we are sleep-walking in the Senate if we don't see any connection between how well children do in school and the economic circumstances of their lives.  
   We had a wonderful coalition gathering yesterday. Senators KENNEDY and SPECTER are introducing antihunger legislation, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor. If we have 30 million citizens in our country today with a booming economy who are ``food insecure,'' and if too high a percentage of those citizens are children, and if, in fact, we have seen a dramatic decline in food stamp participation--and I will marshal the evidence for this in a moment--and the Food Stamp Program was the major safety net for children in this country, you had better believe I have this amendment on this bill, because when children are hungry, they don't do well in school. 
   May I repeat that. When children are hungry, they don't do well in school. May I repeat the fact that we have dramatically slashed the food stamp rolls and that many children who should be receiving food stamp assistance today are not receiving food stamp assistance. That is an important fact. We ought to do 
   the policy evaluation. We ought to have the courage to evaluate the impact of this welfare bill on poor children in America today. 
   In my State there is no longer any affordable rental housing. It is absolutely unbelievable. Children are the fastest-growing segment of the homeless population in our country today, and they end up having to move four or five times during the school year. In many of the schools I visit in our State of Minnesota, especially in our cities, and I visit one every 2 weeks, the teachers tell me it is hard for a third-grader to do well when she is moved four times during a year because the family can't find affordable housing. Don't tell me that doesn't have any impact on how well a child performs in school. This is an education bill being debated, so I have an amendment that deals with the poverty of children in our country. 
   I argue that today, with an economy booming and an affluent country, we have one out of every five children growing up poor in our country. Under the age of 3, I believe it is closer to one out of every four; and under the age of 3, it is about 50 percent of children of color growing up poor in our country today, which is a national disgrace. I argue that poverty has everything in the world to do with education and whether or not each and every child in America has the same opportunity to reach her full potential and his full potential, which is the goodness of our country. 
   Challenging Senators today to vote for a policy of evaluation on the welfare bill, so we can assess what is happening to poor children, is the right 
   thing to do on an education bill. 
   If we blindly accept the argument that the welfare ``reform" is a great success because we have eliminated the rolls by 50 percent, we are guilty of turning our backs on the most vulnerable citizens in our country--poor children. And if we will not address the underlying problems that deal with race--yes, race--and gender, and poverty, and inequality, and social injustice in our country today, it is all too predictable which children will come to kindergarten way behind and which children will fall even further behind, and, yes, which children will fail these standardized high-stakes tests we give to show how tough we are and how rigorous we are, and which children will be held back, and which children will drop out of school, and which children will wind up incarcerated in America today. 
   Don't move to table this amendment arguing that it has nothing to do with education. No Senator should say, ``Senator WELLSTONE, I am going to table your amendment because your amendment deals with race, gender, and poverty of children in this country and that has nothing to do with education.'' Today, 13 million children are growing up poor in our country with a booming economy. 
   I ask my colleagues to consider my amendment before we reauthorize this welfare bill which will impact on children and the poverty of children. 
   Let me now discuss some recent studies. 
   According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Bob Greenstein, director, received the McArthur Foundation grant--I think one of the genius grants--for the impeccable research he directs. More than two-thirds of our States impose full-family sanctions, stopping aid to children as well as parents. Nearly half of these States impose a full-family sanction at the first instance of noncompliance. More than one-fourth of all case closures in a number of States have been the result of sanctions. 
   In other words, half of the people are off the welfare rolls. In many cases, the families have been sanctioned. That doesn't mean they are working. It doesn't mean they have good wages or are doing well. They have just been sanctioned. Then the question becomes, If in a lot of States you have these sanctions, are the sanctions justified? 
   A recent Utah study found that three-quarters of the 
   sanctioned families had three or more barriers to employment, including a health or medical problem, lack of transportation, or lack of skills. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague from Georgia whether there is any response. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to the Senator from Georgia, I reserve the remainder of my time. I have tried to make the following arguments. I have tried to say there is disturbing evidence, outside reports that all may not be right with what is happening. Before we reauthorize this bill, we ought to have a policy evaluation of the impact on poor children. Then I went on and tried to give examples. I can repeat them if my colleague wants me to. It is in my head and my heart. 
   My second point has been I certainly hope this amendment will not be tabled because I think it has everything to do with education. I think it is terribly important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I gather from what my colleague said that means if there is not a rebuttal, there is going to be a good strong vote for this amendment? Is that what my colleague is saying? That would please me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Is my colleague going to move to table? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Georgia. Here is what I am concerned about now. I want to say this to the Senator from Georgia. 
   The background of this is, I have for the last 2 years, off and on, been trying to get a policy evaluation of the bill. This time I focused on the poverty of children because I thought it was so important, so relevant to education. I believe that. I think my colleague from Georgia does. 
   I say to the Senator, he does not have to respond. We will see what the House does. It is a tax bill. It may go to the President, and it could very well be vetoed. If that happens, then I have to come back with this amendment on another vehicle, but I certainly hope if we go to conference committee this amendment will not be dropped. 
   I am going to call for a record vote because I want everybody on record. What has happened in the past is I will come out and then it will get dropped. First, we lost on a vote, a slightly different amendment. Then the next one was dropped. 
   I know I speak with emotion about this, but I really do think it makes sense before we reauthorize by 2001--before we reauthorize in 2002, we ought to know what the impact is. I have presented a lot of studies that should trouble all of us. I think it is terribly relevant to how well our children do. 
   I thank the Senator from Georgia because he could have come out and tried to give this the back of his hand and tabled it. I appreciate the fact he did not. I do not think Senators 
   should vote against this amendment. What I hope is it will stay in conference committee. I make that request to my colleague. 
   I have been on votes that have been 99-1, where I am the 1. Obviously, I have not persuaded too many people. And then I have been involved in votes that are closer. If this is almost a unanimous vote or a unanimous vote, I would like Senators to know: You are on record. When we vote we are on record. I want Senators to know when you vote you are on record saying it is important we have a thorough policy evaluation done of the effect of the welfare bill on children. We want to know if there has been a rise in the poorest of the poor children. We want to know what the gap is between those families who are working and poverty-level income. Are they moving to economic self-sufficiency? We want to know what has happened with other programs such as food stamp programs and why there has been such a drop in food stamp participation, way below the drop in poverty. We want to know what is going on. We want to know what is going on with child care. I am troubled by all these reports about the dangers due to inadequate child care for these children. 
   The way I look at it, I say to Senator COVERDELL, the evidence is irrefutable that probably the most important thing any of us could do is try to make sure prekindergarten kids get the developmental child care from parents--or whoever, if the parents work--so they come to kindergarten ready to learn and not way behind. 
   I want all Senators to know you are on record supporting this policy evaluation. I have been trying to do this for several years. I appreciate the support. It is not a small question. Children who are hungry do not do well in school. Children who receive no health care coverage or dental care where they have an abscessed tooth and infection do not do well in school. Children who have been in inferior prekindergarten situations, inadequate child care, do not do well in school. Children who are homeless do not do well in school. And children who are among the poorest of the poorest of the poor citizens of this country, living in households at less than half the poverty-level income, do not do well in school. 
   I think it is important we get a handle on what it means that in the most affluent country in the world, with an economy booming and record surpluses, we have 12.5 million children who are ``food insecure.'' 
   We can do better, and we will do better when we are willing to do an honest evaluation as to what is happening. 
   I thank my colleague from Georgia. I take his support not as a sort of effort to trivialize this but as sincere support. It means a lot to me. 
   Before I yield the floor, I ask my colleague, I would like to have the vote. I would like to have everybody on record. When would we be scheduling this vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Georgia, what would be best for Senators' schedules would be stacked votes, either later today or early tomorrow morning; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Georgia. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield back our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if there is one thing we all can agree on in education, it is that teacher quality is absolutely critical to how well children learn. Yet, the nation confronts one of the worst teacher shortages in history. With expanding enrollment, decreasing class size and one third of the nation's teachers nearing retirement age, public schools will need to hire as many as 2.2 million teachers over the next decade. 
   The need is greatest in specific subject areas such as mathematics, science, special education and bilingual education, all important subjects if the nation is to have an educated work force to keep it competitive in the world marketplace. 
   Need is also greatest in specific geographical areas such as the inner city and rural areas. Ironically, it is the most educationally and socio-economically disadvantaged students that are under served. If there is one action we can take guaranteed to help struggling schools and children, it is to provide states and school districts the means to ensure that there is a highly qualified teacher in every classroom. 
   My legislation, Teacher Corps, which I am proud to introduce today with my colleagues, Senators KENNEDY and SCHUMER, who for so long have fought to bring the best possible educational opportunities to all of America's children, is designed to do just that. Its components are based on a definite need and sound research concerning effective mechanisms for meeting that need. 
   Teacher Corps would fund collaboratives between state education agencies, local education agencies and institutions of higher education. 
   The collaboratives would recruit top ranked college students and qualified mid career individuals, who have not yet been trained as teachers, to teach in the nation's poorest schools in the areas of greatest need--both geographically and academically. Districts and universities would work together to only recruit candidates who have an academic major or extensive and substantive professional experience in the subject in which they will teach. 
   The collaboratives would provide recruits a tuition free alternative route to certification which includes intensive study and a teaching internship. The internship would include mentoring, co-teaching and advanced course work in pedagogy, state standards, technology and other areas. 
   After the internship period, the collaboratives would offer individualized follow up training and mentoring in the first two years of full time teaching. 
   Corps members that become certified will be given priority in hiring within that district in exchange for a commitment to teach in low income schools for 3 years. 
   A good teacher can mean the world to any child whether it is through caring or through providing children with the skills they need to open their own doors to the future. Every time I enter schools in Minnesota, I am in awe of teachers' work. 
   That is why it is so tragic to think that there are so many children that do not have access to qualified teachers, at the same time that many people interested in teaching are either not entering the profession or are not staying there once they have qualified. 
   Teacher Corps will help meet the growing need for teachers in low income urban and rural schools, and in high need subject areas such as math, science, bilingual and special education. 
   It will do so because Teacher Corps is rooted in three fundamental parts. Recruitment, retention and innovative, flexible, high quality training programs for college graduates and mid-career professionals who want to teach in high need areas. 
   The first principle is recruitment. As I mentioned before, we may need to hire as many as 2.2 million new teachers in the next decade to ensure that there are enough teachers in our schools. But, overall quantity is not the only issue. Quality and shortages in specific geographic and curriculum areas are equally critical. While there are teacher surpluses in some areas, certain states and cities are facing acute teacher shortages. In California, 1 out of every 10 teachers lacks proper credentials. 58 percent of new hires in Los Angeles are not certified. 
   There are also crucial shortages in some subject areas such as math, science, bilingual and special education. In my home state of Minnesota, 90 percent of principals report a serious shortage of strong candidates in at least one curriculum area. 54 percent of the mathematics teachers in the state of Idaho and 48 percent of the science teachers in Florida and Tennessee did not major in the subject of their primary assignment. 
   Teacher Corps would meet this need because it would recruit and train thousands of high quality teachers into the field to meet the specific teaching needs of local school districts. 
   It would recruit and train top college students and mid-career professionals from around the country, who increasingly want to enter the teaching profession. 
   More college students want to enter teaching today than have wanted to join the profession in the past 30 years. According to a recent UCLA survey, over 10 percent of all freshman say they want to teach in elementary and secondary schools. 
   Second, the design of the program ensures that the needs of local school districts will be considered so that only those candidates who meet the specific needs of that district will be recruited and trained. If, for example, there is a shortage of special education, bilingual, math and science teachers in a particular district, Teacher Corps  would only train people with those skills. In setting up collaboratives in this way, teacher corps helps avoid the overproduction of candidates in areas where they are not needed. 
   Finally, Teacher Corps gives priority to high need rural, inner suburban and urban districts to ensure that new teachers will enter where they are needed most. 
   However, it does not help to recruit teachers into high need schools and train them if we cannot retain them in the profession. Teaching is one of the hardest, most important jobs there is. We ask teachers to prepare our children for adulthood. We ask them to educate our children so that they may be productive members of society. We entrust them with our children's minds and with their future. It is a disgrace how little support we give them in return. It is no surprise that one of the major causes of our teacher shortage is that teachers decide to change professions before retirement. 73 percent of Minnesota teachers who leave the profession, leave for reasons other than retirement. In urban schools, 50 percent of teachers leave the field within five years of when they start teaching. 
   To retain high quality teachers in the profession, we must give 
   teachers the support they deserve. Teachers, like doctors need monitoring and support during the first years of their professional life. Teacher Corps offers new teachers the training, monitoring and support they need to meet the profession's many challenges. It includes methods of support that have proven effective in ensuring that teachers stay in schools. The key elements for effective teacher retention were laid out by the National Commission on Teaching and America's Future in 1996. Effective programs organize professional development around standards for teachers and students; provide a year long, pre-service internship; include mentoring and strong evaluation of teacher skills; offer stable, high quality professional development. 
   Each of these criteria are included in the Teacher Corps program. 
   Further, Teacher Corps supports people who choose teaching by paying for their training. Through this financial and professional support, Teacher Corps will go a long way toward keeping recruits in teaching. 
   But, it is still not enough to recruit and retain teachers. Quality must be of primary importance. Research shows that the most important predictor of student success is not income, but the quality of the teacher. Despite this need, studies show that as the level of students of color and students from low-income families increases in schools, the test scores of teachers declines. 
   This is wrong. We are denying children from low-income areas, from racial minorities, with limited English proficiency, access to what we know works. Several studies have shown that if poor and minority students are taught by high quality teachers at the same rate as other students, a large part of the gap between poor and minority students and their more affluent white counterparts would disappear. For example, one Alabama study shows that an increase of one standard deviation in teacher test scores leads to a two-thirds reduction in the gap between black/white tests scores. 
   We can not turn our back on this knowledge. We must act on it. We must give low income, minority and limited English proficiency children the same opportunities that all children have and we must do it now. 
   The very essence of Teacher Corps is to funnel high quality teachers where they are needed most. Teacher Corps would help ensure quality by using a selective, competitive recruitment process. It would provide high quality training, professional development, monitoring and evaluations of corps member performance, all of which have been proven to increase the quality of the teaching force and the achievement of the students they teach. 
   Further, by creating strong connections between universities and districts and by implementing effective professional development projects within districts, we are setting up powerful structures to benefit all teachers and students. 
   Mr. President, we have an opportunity to do what we know works to help children who need our help most. Good teachers have an extraordinary impact on children's lives and learning. We need to be sure that all children have access to such teachers and all children have the opportunity to learn so that all children may take advantage of the many opportunities this country provides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will the Senator from Nevada yield for a quick question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. He can answer them in a relatively brief fashion, I think. 
   First of all, is it not true that when his party was the majority party in the Senate the minority party would come out with many amendments to a piece of legislation and sometimes we would have 100 amendments? 
   I want to get to the definition of what ``relevant'' means so people following this will know what that definition is. 
   Is it not true that we would have many amendments and we would basically debate these amendments and then after several days of hard work, even if we had to work 14 hours a day, we would go forward and pass that legislation? That is one of the ways you  represent people back home. If there is a compelling issue, you offer an amendment to a piece of legislation and you hope to pass it. 
   I remember the amendment on mental health parity that I offered with Senator DOMENICI. It was an amendment on housing on the veterans appropriations bill. 
   Will the Senator from Nevada not agree with me that is the way the Senate has always conducted its business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, on this particular piece of legislation that Senator COVERDELL introduced, which we have been debating, will the Senator from Nevada not agree with me that the kind of amendment, for example, I wanted to offer to this legislation dealing with the hunger of children, dealing with the poverty of children, dealing with how to deal with the violence in children's lives in their homes would not be considered to be by the definition of ``relevant'' relevant? Yet it affects education and children's lives. There have been hardly any opportunities over the whole last year to come out on the floor with amendments to different pieces of legislation. Is that not true? So it gets to the point where you can't even represent people back in the State as a Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I come to the floor to raise a question which I can't believe I have to keep raising over and over again. 
   Many of us attended the services for Officer Chestnut and Agent Gibson. They were part of the Capitol Hill police force. They were here every day not only protecting Senators and Representatives but the public. I started speaking about this before. We had the 1-week break. I want to come back to this again. This is the one issue on which I want to focus. 
   We made a commitment to do everything we could possibly do to make sure the officers were as safe as possible and would never have to go through this kind of hell again, for families and for loved ones, and that the public would be safe. Part of that commitment was the idea that surely at the different stations, especially those with the most public, we would have at least two officers. 
   This morning, again--I think it is the Second Street or C Street entrance, the barricaded part of the Hart Building--at about 10 o'clock in the morning when I came in there was one police officer with all sorts of people. There must have been about 20 people streaming in. That one officer is in peril, and the public is in peril. 
   I cannot believe we have not lived up to our commitment. I say to colleagues that it is pretty simple. I think the Senate Sergeant at Arms said this: A, we need to pass a supplemental appropriations bill so that you can use overtime in the short run to do the staffing so we have two officers at each one of these stations, or each one of these posts; and, B--I applauded the Senate Sergeant at Arms--we need to hire about 
   100 more officers so that on a permanent basis we can staff and have two officers at each one of these posts. 
   I am telling you, colleagues, what we have done is absolutely unconscionable, or what we have not done. How in the world can whoever makes these appropriations decisions--given all we have been through, given all of our concern and all of the commitment we have made, given the service we attended for the two officers who were slain--how can we not put the resources into this so our officers are safe, and, for that matter, so we are safe and the public is safe? 
   I for the life of me don't get it. I honest to goodness don't get it. I think that every day I am going to come out and mention this. I can't believe this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Having talked to the Senate Sergeant at Arms, I think that Senators who care about this issue--and I think all do--need to make sure our voices are heard. We support the Capitol Police. 
   On the House side, there seems to be some slowness on a decision about whether or not we will pass through the supplemental appropriations bill and whether or not we will do the job here. 
   I say to colleagues one more time, I think this is a scandal. I think it is an absolute scandal. We have two officers that have lost their lives. I believe we have made a commitment to the police officers and to their families. I think we have to do much better. It won't happen right away, but at least the decisions need to be made so we can do the staffing to make sure we have two officers at each post. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, there was a press conference today held by the National Campaign for Jobs and Income. There were some very dramatic findings reported. This is directly relevant to the debate we were having with the majority leader. They reported today in a prosperous country, we still have about 35 million poor Americans and 13 million of those Americans are children. They reported that while the administration and other Senators and Representatives boast about having cut the welfare rolls in half, we actually have just made a small, hardly any, dent in reducing poverty. 
   Remember, the goal of the welfare bill was to move people from welfare to economic self-sufficiency. 
   They report that the poorest children in America are getting poorer. That is worth repeating: The poorest children in America are getting poorer. 
   They report there is a whole group of people, mothers and children, remaining in poverty. Many are families under tremendous stress and strain. Perhaps a mother has struggled with substance abuse; a mother who is a single parent has a severely disabled child; a mother has been battered, beaten up over and over again. About every 13 seconds in America, a woman is battered in her home. 
   There is precious little evidence these families will be able to move to work. Pretty soon, depending on the State, they will be pushed off a cliff.  We have no safety net left as a result of the welfare bill. 
   They report there is not one State in the country where the average earnings is even close to the poverty level income. The vast majority of the jobs are barely above 
   minimum-wage jobs, and after 1 year the families lose their health care coverage and are not able to get good child care for their children, sometimes not any child care. 
   Given those findings, I think it should give Members pause that we are actually seeing an increase in the poverty of the poorest children in America; it should give Members pause. 
   It is amazing that State governments with the TANF money have about $7 billion they have not spent--$7 billion. There are all the needs for affordable child care, for training, especially for additional support services for families that are under unbelievable strain, are mainly women and children in need of affordable housing, sometimes transportation. All of this compelling need and these families are under tremendous pressure trying to survive under very difficult conditions, and the money we have allocated to these States, $7 billion, is not being spent. Albeit, some of it can be put in a rainy day fund and maybe should be because who knows if the business cycle will stay up forever. 
   Six States--Connecticut, Kansas, Minnesota, New York, Texas, and Wisconsin--transferred $800 million from the TANF surpluses to funding programs other than those that serve poor families. Quite often it ends up as general tax rebates, not to the poor. This year, Minnesota is doing much better with the TANF money. Last year, I am not proud of what the Minnesota Government did. 
   My point is simple: 
   No. 1, the amount of unspent TANF money in the States has reached $7 billion, an enormous amount of money. 
   No. 2, this money has been unspent despite the persistent level of poverty that exists in our country, especially among women and children. And for children, the poorest of poor children, their poverty has increased and some of the States are not spending the money to help them. 
   No. 3, these low-income families are not receiving the services and the support they need to move out of poverty, which is what this bill was supposed to be all about. 
   No. 4, although some States are developing innovative programs, other States are diverting TANF money to pay for tax cuts or other programs that are not even targeted to the poor. 
   No. 5, in a time of unprecedented economic growth, there are all sorts of ways in which the States could be using this money to invest in children, to make sure that families can move from welfare to economic self-sufficiency, and they are not. 
   Conclusion: Don't we write the checks? Doesn't this money come from the Congress and the Federal Government? I think we have the responsibility to ensure that the States are spending the TANF money in ways that meet the goals of the program, which is to move families out of welfare into jobs so they can support themselves. 
   We should insist that the TANF money is spent to help struggling families--not put into a surplus, or not to be given back as tax rebates to citizens across the board. I think it is an abuse of the program. 
   In this TANF reauthorization, that will be my work as a Senator. I hope other Senators will join. I oppose the bill. I am glad I oppose the bill. Those in favor of the bill should be the first to want to make sure the money is spent the way it is supposed to be spent. We should insist on accountability. 
   Second, I will come back with an amendment. That is what the debate with the majority leader is about. I am a Senator most vocal about having the right to bring amendments to this bill. I want an amendment that says we should have a policy evaluation of what is happening to the poor children. 
   Don't tell me that is not relevant to their education, but it wouldn't be relevant to this piece of legislation as defined by the definition of ``relevant.'' It would be an amendment, and I do not have a right to offer that amendment--so says the majority leader. 
   But this is compelling. The poverty of children is compelling. The poverty of the poorest of children is compelling. As a Senator who spent most of his adult life working in many of these communities, I want to have some amendments that deal with the poverty of children and I want to have the right to introduce those amendments to this bill. As a Senator from Minnesota, I don't want to continue to be shut out, by the majority, of my right to come out here and fight for people. Basically, that has been the strategy for almost this whole last year. 
   I hope Democrats will, basically, not let themselves be rolled. I hope Democrats will say: As Democrats, as the minority party, we are going to insist on the same rights as the minority party had when we were the majority. It is a very important principle. But it is not just insider politics. It is all about whether or not, when you go home to your State and meet with people, and you know their problems, you want to do better for people--it is whether or not you can be a legislator and come out here with amendments and debate and fight for people for whom you want to fight. So if there is no agreement, I certainly hope the Democrats will support one another on what I think is a very important question. 
   Back to the substantive issue, I hope my colleagues will take a look at what is being done to this welfare bill with this TANF money. We have some troubling data from which we cannot turn our gaze. Most of these families who are now working, 670,000 people, are no longer covered by medical assistance since this bill was passed because after 1 year they are off. Hardly any of these mothers have living-wage jobs. We just had a report a few weeks ago that the child care situation for their children ranges from dangerous to barely adequate. Just because they are poor children does not mean they are not entitled to good child care. 
   We have had this dramatic decline in food stamp participation. We have no idea why. It is certainly not because there has been much of a decrease in poverty. We see the rise of hunger and the use of food shelves in our country. But the States have $7 billion they are sitting on. They came here and said: Trust us, just give us the money; we will do the best with it. 
   But quite often low-income families, poor families, whether they are people of color or white people, do not have much clout. It is up to us to say: We are a national community. There are certain values we hold dear. There are certain things as a national community we hold dear. One of them is, by gosh, there are going to be some standards everyone is going to have to meet because whether a child eats or not, whether or not there is decent housing, whether or not a family is able to make ends meet, whether or not children are able to look forward to a good life, should not depend on the State in which they live. 
   We make a commitment as a national community, especially to the most vulnerable citizens in our country, who are children, who are poor children. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask the Senator from California, did she not intend to speak? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, very briefly, how much time do the Democrats have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me try to do this in 10 minutes. I might ask unanimous consent for a couple of more minutes but not much more. 
   I thank my colleagues for their discussion about prescription drug costs. In the State of Minnesota, actually only one-third of senior citizens have any prescription drug coverage at all. Let me also point out that in the State of Minnesota, we have many seniors who cut their pills in half because they think they will save money and still will be able to help themselves and actually, doctors say, sometimes that can be more dangerous than not even taking the drug at all. 
   The investment in prescription drug coverage cannot be done on the cheap.  I am in complete agreement with my colleagues about the tradeoff between tax cuts, the vast majority of which benefit people at the top, and not having the money for this investment. But to be fair in a critique here, I think all of us, Democrats and Republicans, have to understand even if we provide a benefit but we are unwilling to spend too much money for fear of being called, I suppose, big spending liberals or whatever, if you set a cap and you say only $1,000 will be covered and no more than that, then I can tell you many of our senior citizens, and others who are the frailest and most sick, will bump up against that cap, and it will still not cover their catastrophic expenses. We have to be very careful people can afford it on the front side as well. 
   So whether it be too high deductibles or caps that are set too low, we have to be very careful if we say we are going to have this coverage for people and security for people, that it will be there. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have in hand an article, titled ``Rights Group Reports Massacre in Chechnya.'' The first two paragraphs read:  
   MOSCOW, Feb. 22--Russian soldiers went on a deadly rampage earlier this month in a neighborhood of the Chechen capital of Grozny, killing at least 60 civilians in the worst case yet disclosed of Russian military atrocities, an international human rights group charged today. 
   During the attack, which began the morning of Feb. 5 in the Aldi neighborhood, soldiers, ``systematically'' robbed and shot civilians, raped women and looted and burned homes, according to a draft report prepared by Human Rights Watch and based on interviews with witnesses and relatives of those killed.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I hope to have the opportunity to introduce a freestanding resolution on the floor of the Senate. I hope this resolution will receive unanimous support. It expresses the sense of the Senate that the Russian Federation should devote every effort to achieving a peaceful resolution of the conflict in Chechnya, allowing to Chechnya an international monitoring mission to monitor and report on the situation there and allow international humanitarian agencies to make sure there is immediate and full and unimpeded access to Chechen civilians. 
   This is a question on which the Senate should not be silent. It does make a difference if we speak up. Two weeks ago, I met with members of the Chechen Government. They discussed with me the horrific conditions currently facing their homeland. I do not think any of us should be silent while this is happening. 
   We in the Senate should express our distress over the escalating humanitarian situation in Chechnya, and we should urge the administration to enlarge its public demands on Russia to confront it. 
   It is clear that the Russian Government must move immediately to allow into Chechnya an international monitoring force to monitor and report on the situation there. We need that. The world needs that. The people in Chechnya need that. It must also immediately move to assist those persons who have been displaced from Chechnya as a result of this conflict, and the Russian Government must allow representatives of the international community access to those persons in order to provide humanitarian relief. 
   Russian authorities agree to permit the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to engage in monitoring in Chechnya, yet it has not permitted OSCE's six monitors currently in Moscow to visit the region. The administration must demand that Russia permit the monitoring mission to go forward and take steps to expand it substantially. 
   The administration must urge Russia to grant human rights monitors access to the region, including those from our own diplomatic missions in the area. The administration must engage Russian authorities at the highest levels to secure cooperation in addressing the humanitarian emergency in Chechnya and in its neighboring province. It must demand Russia assist those persons who have been displaced from Chechnya as a result of this conflict and grant humanitarian organizations access to Chechen civilians to provide some relief. The civilian population in Chechnya has been victimized to an extraordinary degree, and it is in desperate need of humanitarian aid. The Senate should not be silent on this question. 
   Finally, the administration must urge the Russian Government to achieve a peaceful resolution and durable settlement in a manner consistent with Russia's obligation to the international community. 
   We must strongly support the OSCE mediation process. The Russian Government acknowledged the OSCE's competence in serving as a mediator and achieving a political settlement to the conflict in Chechnya during the war of 1994 to 1996. However, to date, the Russians have rebuffed repeated efforts by the OSCE to mediate the current conflict. The administration must increase its efforts to persuade Russia to implement an immediate cease-fire and accept OSCE-mediated negotiations. 
   As this conflict drags on and the number and intensity of human rights abuses by Russian forces in Chechnya increase, the administration must support the creation of a United Nations  commission of inquiry to investigate serious violations of international humanitarian law by Russian forces. 
   We must confront the suffering of the Chechen people. As many of my colleagues know, the recent Russian assault on the Chechen capital of Grozny was one more campaign in a continuing series of Russian military offensives in Chechnya. In September, I expressed my concerns to Yeltsin and Putin about the humanitarian tragedy that was, for the second time, unfolding in Chechnya. It is hard to imagine that after the use of force in Chechnya from 1994 to 1996, which left over 80,000 civilians dead, the Russian leadership could again see the use of force as enhancing the prospects for a durable settlement to this conflict. But the Russian leadership has again chosen use of force, and the current tragedy before us has now reached unimaginable heights, as evidenced by the piece today in the Washington Post. 
   Russian forces have used indiscriminate and disproportionate force in their bombings of civilian targets. This has resulted in the deaths of thousands of innocent civilian and displaced countless other. Russian authorities maintain a virtual ban on access to Chechen civilians by media and international humanitarian agencies resulting in our having to rely on the personal testimony of refugees fleeing the fighting to determine the nature and extent of the crisis and best means to provide humanitarian relief. 
   These testimonies are horrific: incidents of widespread looting, summary executions, detentions, denial of civilians safe passage from the fighting, torture, and rape. 
   Many civilians report being detained at the Chechen border as they tried to flee the fighting. They tell of brothers and fathers who had simply been denied safe passage out. It is fundamentally unacceptable to deny any civilian the right to flee the fighting--to trap them in this dangerous war. And where do these trapped civilians go? Into detention camps. No one needs to be reminded of the systematic torture that took place in detention camps set up to detain Chechens in the 1994-96 Chechen war. That event stains the memory of the Chechen people and it is happening again. 
   One twenty-one-year-old tells of the horror in the camps:  
   About fifteen or twenty soldiers were standing in two lines with rubber sticks. ..... When I was running through the corridor, each soldier beat me with the sticks. They made us undress and started checking our clothes. They took away the clothes they liked. ..... For a week, I had to sit in the jail almost naked.  
   In addition to this torture, young men report that in order to be released from the camps their family members must pay outrageous bribes to camp officers and upon release, must sign papers saying they suffered no harm in captivity. 
   Then there are the numerous reports of rape. In one Chechen town a six-month pregnant 23-year-old woman was raped and murdered. Her mother-in-law was executed in this same incident. And Mr. President, many incidences of rape and sexual abuse go unreported. For many women in towns and villages all over Chechnya the shame is simply too great--they won't come forward to report these horrible crimes. Chechnya's culture and national traditions make it difficult to document case of rape and sexual abuse--unmarried women who are raped are unlikely to be able to get married, and married women who are raped are likely to be divorced by their husbands. The effects of these rapes on Chechen society will be profound and long lasting. I remind the Russian leadership that rape is war crime. 
   Two weeks ago I sent a letter to acting President Putin expressing my deep concern over the deteriorating situation in Chechnya and the Russian government's response to the humanitarian tragedy there. I urge the Russian government to move quickly to resolve this situation in a manner consistent with Russia's obligations to the international community and urge the Russian leadership to begin now to investigate and prosecute those responsible for human rights abuses in Chechnya--it promised to do this after the last Chechen war but failed to do so. 
   I urge my colleagues to communicate their own concerns to the Administration and the Russian government in whatever manner you think best. We cannot remain silent. We must fully condemn the use of indiscriminate force against the civilians in Chechnya and denial of humanitarian relief to Chechen civilians. We must remind the Russian leadership that the world is watching. 
   This congress and this administration must express to the Russian government that it should devote every effort to achieve a peaceful resolution of the conflict in Chechnya, allow into Chechnya an international monitoring force to monitor and report on the situations there. 
   That is what this resolution I have submitted to the Senate, on which I hope we will have a vote, calls for. We must call for allowing international humanitarian agencies immediate, full, and unimpeded access to Chechen civilians in order to provide humanitarian relief. 
   This resolution, on which I hope we will have an up-or-down vote or it will be unanimously accepted by the Senate, calls for several things. It calls for the Russian Federation to devote every effort to a peaceful resolution, to allow into Chechnya an international monitoring mission to monitor and report on the situation, and to allow international humanitarian agencies immediate and full access to Chechen civilians. The people of Chechnya deserve no less. 
   I have no illusions. I do not think adopting a resolution automatically turns the situation around, but I do believe the Senate should not be silent, that we must support this resolution, and we must send this message. We must stand up for human rights. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Senator from Georgia wants to speak. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to follow the Senator from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I appreciate the Senator's remarks. I definitely want to respond. Senator SCHUMER is on a tight timeline. He asked whether he could speak for 5 minutes. Then I would follow him. I ask unanimous consent that Senator SCHUMER be allowed to speak for 5 minutes and I be allowed to follow Senator SCHUMER. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I appreciate the remarks of Senator SCHUMER and what Senator COVERDELL had to say. Let me move away from procedure and whether the bill should now be debated and go to substance. 
   First of all, the idea that up to $2,000 in savings can be put into education, from my point of view from some of the most hard-pressed people in Minnesota--Minnesota is divided, metro and then inner city, where a lot of people are struggling economically. Unfortunately, in Minnesota and I think around the country, we are moving to two Americas. In rural America, people are not going to have the $2,000 savings. They will not even get close. They do not have it to put in savings. 
   Let me be clear in terms of which families will be able to benefit and which will not. 
   I ask the Senator from Georgia, is it a deduction people make? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Just from a tax progressivity point of view, those with the highest liability with less income shown pay less. I don't see the large part of this benefit going to the most hard-pressed families. 
   That is my first point. That is substance, not parliamentary, when the bill is out on the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I appreciate what the Senator said, and I will be pleased to yield for other questions as well. 
   First, I point out to the Senator on whether or not this is, roughly speaking, the same benefit as in the President's proposal, that does not move me as a Senator as much. Having done a lot of community work with low- and moderate-income people, I know for a fact that most of the people will not have anywhere close to $2,000 to put into savings. It is a reality. It is not even thinkable for most of them. 
   Second, yes, others in the community might be able to contribute and help them out, but that begs the question. The families who will be able to best take advantage of this are families who are on the higher income end of the scale. That is a first point, regardless of a comparison to the President's proposal. 
   In any case, I made this to be scrupulously nonpartisan or bipartisan, or whatever the right label is. For the President's HOPE scholarship program, I said if this is not a refundable tax credit, most of the families with incomes under $28,000 don't have the tax liability and it will not help. I am being consistent in my argument. 
   On the whole question of low-income communities, the very people I am talking about are the ones who are clamoring the most for this. Let me get to that point in a second. 
   First, another criticism. I want to be straight up in my disagreement with my colleague from Georgia. I think there is a real question if it is through the Tax Code. We keep having a debate. It is tax expenditure. We are spending money one way or the other. If we do it through the Tax Code, we are basically providing dollars that could be going to public education, and in this particular case it could go to private schools. 
   I am opposed to that. I view that as a voucher plan. That might be attractive to the Senator. There are some who believe that is a big mistake and believe we ought to use the public taxpayer dollars one way or another, whether it be through the direct expenditure or whether it be through tax deductions and tax credits. We believe that ought to go to public education. That is a disagreement. If we brought this out next year or brought it out here with a whole bunch of other proposals, I would still disagree. 
   On the whole question of who benefits and who does not and which communities are clamoring for this, now I get to the point: If on the whole question of the savings account it ultimately gets to $7 per child, I don't see that as a great benefit. I certainly don't see how it gets to many people. Even if you want them to get to the exclusive private schools, I don't think it helps much. 
   This is where I really disagree with my colleague. I am sure there are organizations and people who support this plan. I am sure they do it in good faith. The question is opportunity before the Senate. Either we put this $1.2 billion here or we say there are better uses. I argue there are better uses. I argue there are better uses for the money. 
   Now, we have talked about what proposals have been vetted or have not been vetted. My colleague from New Hampshire came out here with an argument that was interesting. I think he had every right to make it. He said we will deal with this in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   However, I will give some examples. We had a pretty long discussion about title I. 
   This is talking about low- and moderate-income families. This is a place where the Federal Government is a real player. This is terribly important for kids who come from disadvantaged circumstances. It is funded at about one-third the level it should be funded. So in a lot of urban Minnesota, once you get to schools with less than 65 percent low-income students, there is no money. The other schools are not even eligible. 
   I would argue, if it is $1.3 billion or $4 billion or $5 billion, or whatever amount of money you want to talk about, the opportunity cost of putting it into this plan is that you do not put it directly into a proven program that really benefits kids if given the funding and if given the accountability. I would rather put it there. 
   What have we talked about and what have we not talked about? It should not have taken Columbine. But we have had this discussion about violence. We have had this discussion about how does one get to these kids before they commit this kind of violent act. We have had this discussion about the need for support services for kids. We have had this discussion about so many kids feeling anonymous in the schools. We have talked about the need to have counselors. 
   Some of us have had amendments out on the floor to provide funding for more counselors in our schools, to provide support services to kids, to students. That is an important education  program. I doubt whether any Senator, if he or she is in a school--I try to be in a school in Minnesota every 2 weeks--does not hear about the need to have more counselors and more support services for students, many of whom, if they are not the top of their class and they are not a great athlete, feel lost. I argue we would be making a much better investment if we invested it in this program. 
   There is another issue we have had on the floor that is not new. You cannot argue we should not be out here talking about it because we never talked about it before. I would be pleased to fault the administration on this as well, I say to my colleague from Georgia. I believe someday we are going to do this. I think the place where the Federal Government can be a real player --in fact, if I was the one who was writing this amendment, if I agreed with the concept, I would apply it to this area. I would apply it to early childhood development as well. We should be a real player pre-kindergarten. 
   My colleague may say it does not give people enough time to work up the savings for when they have children, if they are very young. But you don't know. Maybe you would let grandparents be able to do it for their children's children. I don't know. But I will say this. It is absolutely pathetic how little we have done by way of an investment in early childhood development. It is pathetic. We have study after study, book after book, documentary after documentary, White House conferences, we all love children, we are all committed to children, and we all know the medical evidence is irrefutable and irreducible that you have to get it right for kids. 
   If I had $1.3 billion over the next 5 years, I would put it into early childhood development. You can make a real difference for children and a real difference for families because, after all, what is most important to families, or parents, is that their children do well in school. 
   The fact is, the reality is, that all too many young people, children in America, come to kindergarten behind. I 
   think the big crisis in education is the learning gap between those kids who have had the support at home, who have had parents who can afford the best by way of developmental childcare, children who have been read to widely, are already computer literate, who have been encouraged, they have that spark of learning, and they come to kindergarten and they are ready to go. Many children come to kindergarten way behind. What in the world are we doing debating this piece of legislation as opposed to talking about this amount of money--or much more, I would argue--by way of investment in early childhood development? 
   I say to my colleague from Georgia, I could talk about other issues as well, but I come to the floor to oppose this on the following grounds: One, I believe it is a fantasy to think $2,000 in savings is going to mean much for most hard-pressed families in Minnesota. They don't have that money for savings. Two, the way the tax benefit works, by definition, whatever money you are not liable for, if you are in a higher tax liability, you get the biggest break, so it is going to benefit more the people on the top. The third point I argue is that I am opposed to using public dollars when we do not even have enough dollars for public education right now, for private education, for what is essentially a voucher plan. 
   Someday in the future, if somebody can show me we have really made the investment in public education--I heard my colleague from New Hampshire talk about all the money we spent that hadn't worked. I would like to talk about areas in which we have not invested. Then I might be willing to talk about how we would use dollars and talk about vouchers. Not now. I do not believe this is the way to go. You would have to persuade me we have really made a commitment. 
   That is my fourth point; whether it be this amount of money, whether it be today, whether it be tomorrow, whether it be next week, if the Senate is really serious about children and education, here is where I do join Senator KENNEDY 100 percent--and this is not so much directed at my colleague from Georgia; he has his piece of legislation here; he believes in it--but honestly, we have done next to nothing. This has been ridiculous. I do not believe the way we have been spending our time week after week after week. I am glad we are out here starting a debate. I actually commend my colleague from Georgia for bringing out a piece of legislation that at least deals with education. But, honest to goodness, we have done next to nothing. We have had hardly any votes, hardly any legislation, hardly any opportunities to introduce amendments to bills. 
   I say to the majority leader and majority party, it is very difficult. I think, frankly, it is difficult for all of us to represent our States well when we do not have a real legislative process going on. I will get to the education part of it in a moment, but I will speak about it in broader terms. 
   Take this last week. You go home. You meet with people and people are glad to meet with you. I think we all have had that experience. They are talking about their work; they are excited. You think you could make a difference as a Senator--and you would not be in the Senate if you didn't think you could make a difference. I had one meeting with parents talking about depression and suicide among kids--it is the second leading killer of our children, ages 18 to 25--and the lack of any kind of support and the lack of services. I 
   could go on and on. I talk to veterans. There are a whole set of unmet needs in the VA health care system. 
   Then we come back here and we have quorum calls or no piece of legislation and no opportunity for amendment. We do not have a legislative process going on in the Senate in general. It is unbelievable. I say to the majority party, I don't think we can represent people back in our States very well unless we get real about the concerns and circumstances of people's lives and what we are doing. I think this has been, to quote someone else, a do-nothing Senate; a do-nothing Congress. 
   I would argue--not that the amendment of my colleague from Georgia is a do-nothing amendment; it is not. He thinks it is the right step. But I say, frankly, as opposed to $7 per kid at best, as opposed to talking about $2,000 in savings that most families I know in Minnesota can't come close to saving, as opposed to a tax break that is going to benefit people more on the upper end--I would say in my discussions, and I try to be in a school every 2 weeks, what people talk about--I think this was Senator KENNEDY's point earlier--is they say we need good teachers. We need to have smaller classes. 
   Students talk about how they are sharing textbooks. They have these political science or government textbooks. Minnesota is a pretty small education State, and the last President they talk about is Ronald Reagan. It is way out of date. They don't have good textbooks. Everybody is talking about computers and technology, but the textbooks are hopelessly outdated. 
   They talk about the need to get it right for kids before kindergarten. I didn't say to the Presiding Officer that he would not think Ronald Reagan wasn't one of the greatest Presidents. I am just saying there have been other Presidents since Ronald Reagan. I see my colleague, Senator SESSIONS, smiling. He can't say anything to me because he is the Presiding Officer, and I can give it to him right now. 
   They talk about school construction. That sounds very abstract, but a lot of buildings are in disrepair and decrepit. 
   We do not tell our kids we care much about them when we do not do anything to rebuild crumbling schools. This is the discussion I hear. 
   They also talk about the question of digital divide and making sure we have access to technology in our schools. I am OK with having this amendment before us, but I disagree with the amendment for the reasons I have stated. The Senator from Georgia disagrees with my disagreement. The larger issue is, frankly, I do not think to most people in the country and to most people I represent that this is really a piece of legislation that deals with their needs or their children's needs or deals with the challenges we have in education. My question is, When in the world are we going to get real about this? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My colleague says it is in addition to other things. The ``other'' is not anywhere near what we should be doing. Whatever it is subtracts from the other things we could  be doing. I do not buy his argument that there are other things we are doing and this is just in addition because of the unmet needs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am talking about the decisive areas in which we should be making an investment. I do not think this is the way we should go at all. I yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will finish. I am a little frustrated--not with my colleague. I am supposed to meet with the Egyptian Ambassador. I just received a note. I have been keeping him waiting. Let me respond to my colleague from Georgia on a couple of different counts. 
   First of all, as far as Federal programs, we can talk about that $1 leveraged many times over. I can give the Senator a couple of examples. One great example is the Women, Infants, and Children Program. By the way, we have a real problem right 
   now, with a booming economy, of hunger of children in America. The reports are very troubling. 
   Every single study I look at says if you get it right by an early childhood investment, it pays for itself over and over. I cannot give a ratio, a dollar amount, but I can tell you either you invest in children when they are young or you pay later with high rates of dropouts--I do not think my colleague disagrees--high rates of substance abuse, and high rates of violence. 
   There are clearly areas where you make investments on the front and it pays for itself over and over. Anything that is early childhood development fits the Senator's criteria. 
   I am saying that is where we should be putting the money, and that is where I would put this $1.3 billion and more. That is part of my disagreement. It is a matter of priorities. A dollar spent is a dollar spent one way or the other. 
   I am attracted--I should not say this; I should be out here trying to demolish the proposal of the Senator from Georgia, but it is presented in good faith and there is a vision to some of it that I understand. The notion that this can encourage people to save and match money and have responsibility and put it into education--all of that I like, but I again argue, frankly, for a lot of families, especially on the low-moderate income end, it is not likely, even with the best intentions and the best commitment to children, they are going to be the ones who can take the greatest advantage of this benefit. It is going to be much more on the upper-income end. Therefore, I think it is a mistake. If this is adopted, if it becomes law, and I am proven wrong, I will be glad to be proven wrong, but I do not think I will be. 
   I yield the floor and thank my colleague from Georgia for his comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000222</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that Jill Hickson, who is a fellow in our office, be allowed to be on the floor during the duration of this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I regret that I cannot support S. 1287, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2000. 
   I cannot support this bill because it fails to meet the safety concerns of our local communities regarding the hazards of nuclear waste. I cannot support this bill because it poses an unacceptable danger to the lives and health of the thousands of Minnesotans and millions of Americans who live near shipment routes. 
   By dramatically increasing the number of hazardous shipments through local communities, S. 1287 increases the risk of transportation accidents involving nuclear waste and could put public health and safety in jeopardy. This legislation would mean an additional 800 shipments in the first two years, growing to about 1,800 shipments annually by the fifth year. These shipments would continue for at least 25 years, traveling within half a mile of 50 million Americans. 
   Under this legislation, highly dangerous nuclear waste would be shipped through 40 or more states, including my own state of Minnesota, regardless of whether it is safe for our local communities, and without their input. Without reliable and efficient emergency response safeguards for our local communities, S. 1287 fails to protect local communities from even a small accident during the shipment of nuclear waste. 
   Recently, DOE projected that a nuclear waste transportation accident in a rural area with even a small release of radioactive material would contaminate 42 square miles. DOE also estimated that it would take 460 days to clean up such an accident, at a cost of $620 million. The safety record of nuclear waste transportation should give us pause. Between 1964 and 1997, the Department of Energy (DOE) made approximately 2,913 shipments of used nuclear fuel. During this time, there were 47 safety incidents involving nuclear shipments, including 6 accidents. 
   Furthermore, S. 1287 undermines the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) standard-setting process. It would delay the EPA's existing statutory authority to adopt health and safety standards to protect local communities from the release of radioactive materials. This delay stands in fundamental contradiction to the claimed urgency of this legislation. It also highlights the misplaced priorities of S. 1287, with an unacceptable emphasis on disposal at any cost, regardless of whether the safety and health of local communities have been adequately provided for. 
   It is especially regrettable that S. 1287 does not resolve our dilemma regarding the future of nuclear waste storage. Nobody, including me, wants this waste to stay onsite forever, but we need a safe and responsible solution for disposal of the waste we have created. As we head into the 21st century, we urgently need to develop a policy that protects the health and safety of local communities and all Americans. Unfortunately, this bill fails to meet that requirement. S. 1287 is a disappointing step in the wrong direction and a regression from past legislative efforts in this area. And for that reason I am voting against it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000210</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a piece of legislation that I hope will be called Katie's Law. This past year, colleagues, in Carlton County, we lost a young, beautiful woman who worked at a convenience store. She was abducted. Everybody in the community helped the family. Tragically, later her body was recovered. A suspect has been arrested for her murder. 
   I have, along with Sheila, stayed in close touch with Katie's family. We have talked quite often with her mother Pam, her dad Steve, and her brother Patrick. 
   When I went to the service, I couldn't even stand it, just to see the pain. This never should have happened. 
   I thought about what I could do as a Senator to make a difference. I, therefore, started talking to a lot of our rural law enforcement people. They told me that whatever we could do in Congress, the key would be to enhance their ability to respond quickly and aggressively to such crimes, that that would make a difference. 
   So there are two pieces to this piece of legislation. I hope I will get tremendous bipartisan support. 
   The first is an abduction emergency fund called the Katie Poirier Abduction Emergency Fund. Basically, what I am saying, colleagues, is that for rural law enforcement, especially in the critical first 72 hours, they should never have to worry about whether they will have the resources and what the cost will be. This will be an emergency fund they can draw upon from the Attorney General, to State agencies, down to the local level. For our rural law enforcement community, this is critically important. 
   Then the second piece is to provide local law enforcement officers with resources to use the latest identification systems to solve and prevent crime. In our metropolitan areas we have the technology, but in our rural communities quite often our local law enforcement communities do not have the capacity to link up with systems such as the FBI's very sophisticated fingerprint identification system. This can be the difference between 2 hours and 2 months. There will be money that will go to local law enforcement, rural law enforcement so they can be able to take advantage of this technology. 
   Altogether, with the abduction emergency fund, we are talking about $10 million over 3 years, for $30 million; and on the technology upgrade for rural law enforcement, we are talking about $20 million over 3 years, for $60 million--total cost for 3 years, $90 million. 
   This is incredibly important to rural America. It is an investment we should make. While I know no piece of legislation can ever provide 100 percent safety for our children, I do know this piece of legislation will make a difference for rural law enforcement and will provide some protection for our children and will provide some protection for our rural citizens. 
   I have never been more determined to pass any piece of legislation than this small step. It is something I think I should do as a Senator. I think as Senators talk to their rural communities from around the country, they will find this does meet a very critical need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, if it is all right with my colleague from Illinois, I will speak on two matters. I thank him for his eloquence. It turns out on some of the issues that my colleague raised, we are not 100 percent in agreement, but I think Senator DURBIN is a Senator who speaks with sincerity and marshals his evidence for his point of view. I think Democrats are very lucky to have him as a Senator speaking for our party and for the country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, yesterday I spoke about what is happening in Chechnya. I believe I should speak out about this. I hope other Senators will, as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will just read part of this letter:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in the few minutes I have remaining today, I will talk in specifics about the security situation here at the Capitol, and what is going on and what is not going on by way of living up to our commitment to Capitol Hill police officers, and also to the public. 
   As I said, we have made the commitment, and we should honor the commitment. You need two officers at a post for their security, much less the security of the public. 
   Two examples. Please remember, for those who are listening, the officer who works alone at any number of these posts is responsible for the following: Watching the x ray monitor for weapons or contraband, personally screening persons with a handheld metal detector--I say to the Senator from Colorado, we come in every day, and we see them doing this--controlling pedestrian traffic at entrances, and watching both entry and exit doors for people who try to bypass security. 
   That is what one officer at one post is supposed to do. 
   Example: Ford House Office Building, Annex 2, Third Street door entrance, 441, Third Street, Southwest. By the way, the Third Street entrance is a multiple-door entrance. 
   Monday, February 7, 2000, one officer was assigned to this entrance from 0700 to 1500 hours. From 1200 to 1300 hours, 512 people entered through the Third Street entrance--one officer. 
   The Ford Building sits directly across from the Federal Center Southwest metro station, for those who are trying to identify it. 
   From 0800 to 0900 hours, 215 people entered through the entrance--one officer. This is Monday, February 7. 
   By the way, during the highest volume of pedestrian traffic, an officer who was passing by just simply stopped and offered assistance. But that is not the way it is supposed to be. 
   Hart Senate Office Building, 120 Constitution Avenue, Northeast; C Street door entrance to the Hart Building. This is a multiple-door entrance that is open to staff--Government workers--from 0700 to 0900 hours. This entrance is actually directly next to Senator NICKLES' office. 
   Tuesday, February 3, one officer was assigned to this entrance from 0700 to 1500 hours. As I say, that was Tuesday, February 3. 
   From 0900 to 1000 hours, 432 people entered through this entrance, not to mention the 332 staffers--Government workers--from 0800 to 0900 hours--one officer. 
   Just think about the number of people who are streaming in with one officer. Again, I don't know exactly who is right in terms of how this problem gets solved. I think some of our police officers believe there are overtime funds for this purpose. It may be that upper management is arguing that those funds are not available. Others say we have to have more funds to hire more people. One way or the other, either there is money there for the overtime funds to properly staff these posts or additional money is necessary in appropriation. 
   I just gave two concrete examples on the House and the Senate side this month of February. I don't think any Senator or anyone in any decisionmaking position who is responsible for the security situation here--starting with these police officers, for them, much less for the public, much less for us--can justify this. It cannot be defended. 
   I will say it one more time. I think it is OK for me to say it. If I say it the wrong way, it is not OK for me to say it. We lost two fine officers. Agent Gibson, Officer Chestnut, we lost them. I do believe we all said to one another that we were going to do everything humanly possible to get the very best security for our officers. No one can ever guarantee a 100-percent safe situation. What we do know is that we can do everything that is humanly possible to try to meet that goal. 
   I just gave two examples this month that show we have fallen way short of meeting that goal. We are not doing right by the Capitol Hill police officers. We are not doing right by the public. We have to take action. 
   I will give other examples over the days and weeks to come. Of course, my hope is this problem will be dealt with. 
   I thank Senator DURBIN for allowing me this time. Not seeing any other Senators on the floor, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent to speak for 10 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I didn't want to take any time during  the Democrats' timeframe because I am so appreciative of Senator DURBIN's remarks. I have another perspective, which is just my own intellectually honest and, by the way, personally heartfelt analysis of the budget. 
   I was struck when Senator DURBIN was talking about: If not now, when? The words of Rabbi Hill, his third century admonition, were heard by many. Rabbi Hill, speaking to Jews, said: If we don't speak for ourselves, who will? And if we speak only for ourselves, who are we? And if not now, when? 
   I think Senator DURBIN was talking about this booming economy and the fact that with a booming economy and the business cycle up, we can make our very good country even better. I agree. Let me spell out my dissent from the President's budget. I did it yesterday, but today I want to do it in a somewhat different way. 
   I do worry about the cynicism of people in the country toward politics and toward government. I think we all do, regardless of party. I think one of the ways we get ourselves into trouble is when there is such a disconnect or a gap between what we say and what we say we are going to do versus the actual budgets and what, in fact, we really are calling for by way of investment. 
   As I hear the President talk about his budget and where we are heading as a country, I hear the President talk about the goal of ending child poverty; of making sure we have health care coverage for our children; of making sure every child comes to kindergarten ready to learn; making sure that when children are no longer children but young people, like our pages, they will eventually be able to afford college, if they choose to make that higher education decision; that there will be economic security for senior citizens. 
   Then I look at the budget and this emphasis on Social Security, Medicare, yes, and basically paying down more of the debt. Frankly, when all is said and done--if somebody can prove me wrong, I am pleased to be proven wrong--the actual nonmilitary discretionary spending over the next 10 years is, in real dollar terms, cut. There is no additional investment at all. 
   Now, the way in which we try to do this in this budget is through the tax system, because politically it seems as if Democrats are scared to death to talk about investment in people any longer for fear they will be accused of being a big spender. Therefore, we do it through the Tax Code, through deductions and tax credits. 
   Let me give credit where credit is due, and let me tell you where I think there is this huge gap between what we say we are going to do and what we are really going to do. The earned-income tax credit is one of the best things we have done for poor people in this country, many of whom are children. Refundable tax credits makes a whole lot more sense. When we did the HOPE scholarship for higher education, we didn't make it refundable, so a lot of young people or not so young people who were attending community colleges, who had incomes under $28,000, $29,000 a year, got no help anyway. They had no tax liability from which to get a credit. Refundable tax credits help low- and moderate-income working Americans more. 
   But with all due respect, we have made hardly any additional investment. Sometimes, if you are going to do it through the tax system, if you are going to talk about long-term care, I say to the Senator from Colorado--I know this is a huge issue in his State--families are thinking long and hard. I have been through it. Sheila and I and our children, we went through it with my parents. They are no longer alive. 
    They both had Parkinson's disease. I know what it is like. You don't want your parent or parents to be in a nursing home. The United States of America is still the only country in the world where you have to go to the poorhouse when you are in a nursing home before you are going to get public help. You have to basically lose everything. You want your parents, or a loved one with a disability, to be able to live at home in as near normal circumstances as possible and with dignity. 
   We say there will be economic security. We are now concerned about long-term care and that people should be able to live at home. Do you know what. In this budget proposal--maybe I am wrong--when you finally get down to it, you are probably talking about a couple thousand dollars a year that a family can get on a tax credit. 
   For my mother and father, and other mothers and fathers and grandparents, if we want to make a commitment to people being able to live at home with dignity, it is going to cost them more than $3,000 a year to have some people come in and help them do that. 
   We are so much for the children, and we have all this irrefutable medical evidence about the development of the brain. Last night, I was lucky enough to have dinner with Rob Reiner. He is so committed to this, and I thank him for his work. We know we have to get it right--prekindergarten. The Federal Government should be a player. It should be centralized, and we should get funds to the neighborhoods and community level and have really good developmental child care. 
   We have a pittance in this budget. Yes, we add more money for Head Start. I guess we should since, right now, we have been covering, under the age of 3, only 2 percent of the kids who are eligible. That is hardly much of a commitment to give children from poor income backgrounds. We have additional money, but in terms of the need, we only cover 20 percent of low-income families in America. This is a huge issue for middle-income and working families. We are talking about good child care, not unsafe child care. It is a pittance. It is a pittance. 
   So my point is--and the Presiding Officer is Republican, so don't take this the wrong way; we like each other--I think and I hope we like each other. I think what the President has proposed is better than what the Republicans propose for sure. The Republican view, when it comes to these issues, is that there is not much the Government can or should do but give people a tax break, most of it going to the people on top. That doesn't meet the needs of working families in this country anyway. If you don't own a large corporation and you are not wealthy, there is a role for Government by way of getting some resources down to the community level that can make a real difference to families. But where I dissent from this budget is where the polls say emphasize this, so we talk about it. The polls say it is a hot issue, so we talk about it. 
   But the truth of the matter is that when people hear us, they actually think what we are proposing is going to make a huge difference, so that children won't be in poverty. We have more children in severe poverty today--one-half the poverty income --than we have ever had. We still have about 13 million poor children. 
   People think a budget is going to help us end child poverty and make a commitment to prekindergarten and good child care, so that every child who comes to kindergarten is ready to learn, or 
   the budget will help the elderly with health care. There is a little bit, but most families will find out there isn't going to be nearly enough--not if we truly want to live up to the goodness of America. 
   Every child should have the same opportunity to do well. People who have worked hard and built this country and are on their backs at the end of their lives ought to have decent coverage. They ought not to have to worry about going to a nursing home and losing everything. 
   Higher education should be affordable. People should not fall between the cracks in health care. I was at a dramatic hearing yesterday on suicide. Dr. Jameson from Johns Hopkins and many other people testified. People need coverage because of a struggle with mental illness. I argue that it is politically unsafe, and because there is substance abuse and addiction, they should not be discriminated against and denied coverage. We could save so many lives with the dollars if we did better. 
   People who work hard but don't have any coverage at all ought to have coverage for themselves and their loved ones. That is not in this budget. We hardly make a dent. So I take the words of my colleagues, the Democrats with whom I work, who say the economy is booming and we can do better, and I say I agree: So why are we not doing much better? 
   I think we have been taught to think small. I think that, unfortunately, part of what has been going on over x number of years is that we Democrats have decided we should think small. The  conventional wisdom is that that is the way to win--think small; come up with programs that people think are popular, and then appropriate, get some money, and do it through the Tax Code so nobody can say you are spending money. But you are, either way. But you don't even come close to meeting the needs of the people to whom I say you are going to respond. I think it invites cynicism. No wonder people say Government programs don't work. They hear all this fanfare in press conferences, and, frankly, the investment isn't there. The people aren't helped very much. 
   I say to the Democrats--and I get to do it because I am a Senator and I get to speak to the floor to whoever wants to listen--I think everybody says the reason you have a 50-percent hole in the electorate, with 50 percent of the people voting in a Presidential election, much less a congressional election, much less a local election, is because of money, politics, and disillusionment. That is true. But the other part is that we aren't necessarily standing for politics that really speaks to people's lives, where ordinary citizens can say: Yes, the party, the Democratic Party, the party of the people, is behind us. We know it. Here is what they say they stand for, and they are willing to make the investments to make sure that, for parents and grandparents, our children and grandchildren can do better. I think that is the void in American politics. 
   I think it is a shame that this budget doesn't do a better job of filling that void. Frankly, I don't think we Democrats are doing the job we should do. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I have been coming to the floor every day because of a commitment I made. I will just take a couple of minutes on this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak in morning business for 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I have been speaking about the security of the Capitol Hill police. I made a commitment to myself, much less to others, that I would continue to speak on it. I always start with the service for Officers Chestnut and Gibson and a commitment I am absolutely sure we made to the Capitol Hill police that we would do everything possible to assure security for them, much less the public. 
   One of the things we have to do--and we have to do it today; if not today, tomorrow; but I don't think we should let time go by--is make whatever kind of policy change and whatever kind of commitment of resources need to be made to assure that at every post there are two officers. 
   Again, a lot of the posts have many people entering. If there is one officer with lots of people coming through a door and, God forbid, somebody deranged enters with the intention of committing an act of violence, it would be very difficult for that single officer to deal with such a person. 
   I again call on all Members to do better by these police officers and to live up to this commitment. I am sure Republicans and Democrats all agree, but I will focus on this until I am sure we have followed through on a commitment we made because I don't think we have followed through on it yet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, yesterday I met with members of the Chechen Government. They discussed the horrific conditions currently facing their homeland. It is clear that the Russian Government must move to immediately allow into Chechnya and neighboring Ingushetia an international monitoring force to monitor and report on the humanitarian situation. It must also immediately move to assist those persons who have been displaced from Chechnya as a result of this conflict and to allow representatives of the international community access to those persons in order to provide humanitarian relief. 
   As many of you know, the Russian assault on the Chechen capital Grozny is only one more campaign in a long series of Russian military offensives in Chechnya. In September I expressed my concerns to Boris Yeltsin and Putin about the humanitarian tragedy that was--for the second time--unfolding in Chechnya. It is hard to imagine that after the use of force in Chechnya from 1994-1996--which left over 80,000 civilians dead--the Russian leadership could again see the use of force as enhancing the prospects for a durable settlement to this conflict. Nonetheless, the Russian leadership has again chosen to use force and the current tragedy has now reached unimaginable heights. 
   Russian forces have used indiscriminate and disproportionate force in their bombings of civilian targets. This has resulted in the deaths of thousands of innocent civilians and displaced over 200,000 others. But the suffering is not limited to Chechnya. The neighboring province of Ingushetia has been flooded with refugees. Mr. President, I remind you of the recent snow storm that swept the east coast. I need not remind you of how it compares to a Russian winter. A humanitarian crisis equal to that within Chechnya itself is beginning in Ingushetia. 
   I implore President Putin to hold firm to his commitment made to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly Group last month to allow into Ingushetia an international monitoring presence to determine what is happening--to determine the best means of getting some immediate relief to the refugees and those trapped in Chechnya. And I urge the Russian Government to lift its press restrictions so that the citizens of the Russian Federation see the truth for what it is. For there is no doubt that if the people knew the full story of human suffering in Chechnya--on both sides of the conflcit--they would devote every effort to its peaceful resolution. 
   Russian authorities maintain a virtual ban on access to Chechnya by international and local journalists. Groups--such as the Soldiers' Mothers Committee can only monitor Russian casualties through their own sources, through word of mouth, and struggle to determine the fate of their sons in Chechnya. In the past few weeks Russia's main commercial television station was kicked out of the military's journalist pool for showing an interview with a Russian military officer describing troop losses, and Russian officials arrested Andrei Babitsky, a 10-year-veteran reporter for the U.S.-sponsored Radio Liberty, who had been reporting from the capital Grozny. The Russian Government then exchanged the journalist for Russian soldiers held by Chechen rebels yet as of today, the journalist has not been seen or hear from. 
   The stories of the refugees fleeing Chechnya are horrific: 
   incidents of widespread looting, summary executions, detentions, and rape. 
   Three weeks ago the Russian Commander for the North Caucasus Group of Forces blamed Russian ``mistakes'' on their ``soft-heartedness.'' He then ordered that only children under 10, men over 60, and girls and women would be considered refugees. Although the order was eventually repealed, teenage boys and civilian men had been in effect sentenced to die. Orders such as these are intolerable and must be condemned. It is fundamentally unacceptable to deny any civilian the right to flee the fighting--to trap them in this dangerous war. And where will these trapped civilians go? Into detention camps? No one needs to be reminded of the systematic torture that took place in detention camps set up to detail Chechens in the 1994-96 Chechen war. That event stains the memory of the Chechen people--and its happening again. Today adolescent boys are being ripped from their mothers arms at the border as they try to escape. Mothers remain in the war zone because they refuse to leave without their sons. 
   Zura, a mother of three, told human rights monitors at the border that guards prevented a 59-year-old man from crossing over, and that two boys, aged 12 and 13, made it past border guards only by concealing themselves on the bus. Russian leadership are obligated under humanitarian law to do everything to avoid civilian casualties and allow civilians to flee to safety. 
   Then there are the numerous reports of rape. In the Chechen town of Shali a six-months pregnant 23-year-old woman was raped and murdered. Her mother-in-law was executed in the same incident. And Mr. President, many incidents of rape and sexual abuse go unreported. For many women in towns and villages all over Chechnya the shame is simply too great--they won't come forward to report these horrible crimes. Chechnya's culture and national traditions made it difficult to document cases of rape and sexual abuse--unmarried women who are raped are unlikely to be able to get married, and married women who are raped are likely to be divorced by their husbands. The effects of these rapes on Chechen society will be profound and long lasting. I remind the Russian leadership that rape is war crime. 
   President Putin must move quickly to resolve this situation in a manner consistent with Russia's obligations to the international community. I urge my colleagues to join me in full condemnation of the use of indiscriminate force against the civilians in Chechnya and to remind the Russian leadership that the world is watching. The Russian Government must move to immediately allow into Chechnya and Ingushetia an international monitoring force to determine what is happening. It must immediately move to assist those persons who have been displaced from Chechnya as a result of this conflict and to allow representatives of the international community access to those persons in order to provide humanitarian relief. And the Russian leadership must begin now to investigate and prosecute those responsible for human rights abuses in Chechnya--it promised to do this after the last Chechen War but failed to do so. Those responsible for human rights abuses in Chechnya must be held accountable. 
   President Putin must end this conflict and must devote every effort, including the acceptance of third party mediation offers made months ago by the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to its peaceful resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have not read his article today in the  New York Times, but I congratulate former Secretary Robert Reich for a piece he wrote. I have only had it summarized, but he raises questions about this budget the President submitted. Without having even read the piece, I think I understand his framework. 
   I say to the administration and to Democrats, I find a little unbelievable, with the economy booming and such flush economic times, when one actually looks ahead over the next decade, the nonmilitary discretionary spending and where we are going to be making cuts. I hear the Democrats talking about how we will reduce the debt, but I hear precious little about the investment. 
   What I worry about is a disconnect between the words we speak and the budgets we present. The President said he had a budget that was all about making sure there would be health care coverage for every citizen, that he had a budget which would be about ending child poverty in America, that he had a budget which would be about making sure every child would come to kindergarten ready and able to learn, that he had a budget which would provide economic security for senior citizens. But looking at the investment in this budget, it is not there. I worry about that. 
   I think one of the reasons people become disillusioned is that they think they will make a difference. I gave an example today at our luncheon meeting. My parents both had Parkinson's disease. We hear discussion that there will be economic security for senior citizens, there will be a commitment to long-term care, and then we see a tax credit that amounts to a particular amount of money; maybe for an individual family it would be $2,000 a year. For a family faced with long-term care needs, trying to figure out a way of staying at home and to have people help one stay at home, $2,000 a year is not going to do it. It is not going to even come close. 
   I am troubled sometimes to hear my Senate colleagues, whom I love, taking the position that discretionary spending is actually staying below the cost of living. 
   We are really keeping it down. We are adding no new dollars. 
   But why is that good if, in the first place, some of our spending--I will say that, or investment--is inadequate? We should be a major player in pre-K, pre-kindergarten. That is where the Federal Government can make the biggest difference, getting the money and the resources down to the communities and neighborhoods so we can make a commitment to early childhood development, so we can make sure the men and women who want to work in this field are professionals who get decent salaries, rather than getting paid $7 an hour with no health care benefits; making sure families can afford this if both parents work or a single parent works; making sure this child care is not custodial but it is developmental and really helps children. We are going to have to spend a lot of money. It cannot be done on the cheap. 
   We are going to have to dig into our pockets and make an investment. With all due respect, I appreciate some money for refundable child care tax credits, but when I look at this overall budget, the investment is not there. I am glad we are putting more money into Head Start, but we are not putting in anywhere near enough money to make sure every child who could benefit from Head Start will be able to benefit. We are certainly not putting the investment into affordable child care. 
   I would argue the most important national goal for our country would be to make sure all children--no matter income or color of skin or rural or urban or boy or girl, by the time they go to kindergarten, through a combination of public sector investment, private sector help, volunteers--have been read to widely, all these children know the alphabet and know colors and shapes and sizes, and they know how to spell their name and they have been challenged and there have been people to nurture them and to support them. 
   We are not doing that. So I say to the Chair--he is a Republican--I am actually being more critical of Democrats. I am starting to think the policy debate goes like this. Republicans say when it comes to the most pressing issues of working families' lives, like affordable child care, the President says we want health care coverage for citizens--but this budget does not provide that. It does not take us anywhere near universal health care coverage. So Republicans say universal health care coverage, affordable child care, investment in children--listen, when it comes to these issues, there is not that much the Government can or should do. 
   I understand that. That is a legitimate ideology or point of view. Although, frankly, I think it works best for people who own their own large corporations and are wealthy. I don't think it works for most of the people. 
   The President says: No, we care about children. We are going to invest in children. We are going to have universal health care coverage. We are going to have economic security for the elderly. We are going to make sure no child is in poverty. But then what we say is: But, politically, we cannot make the investment because then it will look as if we are spending too much. In which case, frankly, the differences between the two parties don't make a heck of a lot of difference to a lot of our most vulnerable citizens. 
   So I wanted to come to the floor, first of all, to congratulate former Secretary Bob Reich for raising questions about the priorities of the President's budget and all the money that is being put into debt reduction. You can and should put some money into debt reduction. But do you know what else? It would seem to me we also want to make sure we do well for children right now. In the next century, we are going to be asking them to carry an awful lot on their shoulders. We know there are a lot of children we are not doing very well by. My question is, in the words of Rabbi Hillel, his third century admonition: ``If not now, when?'' 
   If we Democrats do not start speaking up for children and talk about the need to invest in children and to invest in pre-K and get it right by way of developmental child care--which should be huge, it should be all over the country and there should be resources--if we do not speak up for children, Democrats, and for investment in early childhood education, then who will? 
   ``If not now, when?'' 
   I think I have run out of time. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if I might respond to my colleague, I appreciate his words. I think he is right. Senator REID from Nevada is actually the only Senator who actually served on the Capitol Police. 
   I think on the question of appropriations, you are right. This is timely. My own view is the police have a union so they do have a voice. This is, of course, new. I think the union leadership is very involved. I also say Sergeant at Arms Zeiglar has been very good about this and he thinks this is unacceptable and has to change. I don't think there is any question, whether it is an appropriations matter or whether it is reprogramming and having enough overtime pay so people can staff up that way, I don't know the answer. But I do know this, I think my colleague would agree, I don't believe any Senator or Representative can credibly say to the Capitol Hill police, these law enforcement officers: No, we can't spend the additional resources. It costs too much to make sure there is the security for them and the public. We cannot say that. 
   My God, we have gone through a living hell here. If you think of Officer Chestnut and think of Agent Gibson and think of their families, I think the commitment we made to one another--of course you could never come up with a 100-percent certainty that you could prevent this from happening again. But we want to do everything we can. 
   I appreciate what the Senator from Nevada said because it is true. When you have these posts, especially when there are lots of people coming in, you cannot have one officer there. I appreciate the Senator from Nevada speaking out on this. The Capitol Police--I did not expect it necessarily would be this way, but everywhere I have gone the last couple of days people have come up and been very gracious and said: Thank you very much for doing it. 
   I think they feel in their hearts that it is important to get the support. For the Senator from Nevada to come out here and speak makes a big difference. I thank him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Wyoming for his graciousness. I will take 3 minutes at the most. I appreciate him giving me some Republican time for this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have made a commitment that I would come to the floor every day to speak about the Capitol Hill police but also about the public. Again, I want to repeat what I have said the last couple of days. As did many of my colleagues, I went to the service for officers Chestnut and Gibson. It was an unbelievably horrible and painful time--first of all, for their families. I do believe, at that time and since then, we made a commitment for our police officers, and for that matter for the public, that we would do everything we possibly could--albeit nothing is 100-percent effective--to make sure such a tragedy would never happen again. 
   I have come to the floor several times to point out that at too many posts, or at least at some times at some of our posts, we only have one officer. When you have lots of people coming in and you have one officer, if, God forbid, you have somebody who is deranged, that officer is in real peril and so is the public. 
   I know we have made the commitment over and over again to have two officers at every post. I am not pretending to be the expert as to all the budgets, where the money has been spent, but I know this: We can do better by the Capitol Hill police officers, and we should. We can do better by the public. Whatever it takes, we need to honor our commitment and we need to make sure we have the necessary resources so we have two officers at these posts. 
   There are many other issues. I am not going to get involved in these other issues because I am not the expert. I know what I have observed. I know the police officers with whom I have talked. I know the commitment we made to these police officers. So I am going to continue to speak about this a couple of minutes every day. I am hoping the appropriators and others will come through. 
   I thank my colleague from Wyoming. I think all of us are in agreement on this; I believe this is not a Democrat or Republican debate at all. 
   So I thank my colleague from Wyoming and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I ask my colleague to yield for one second? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
   I have a group of students outside. I would like to follow the Senator. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to follow Senator HARKIN in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   We are each allowed 10 minutes; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have never heard Senator HARKIN speak for only 10 minutes. I ask Senator HARKIN, can you make your statement in 10 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I said, I have never heard you be able to make an argument in 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to the Senator from Iowa--and I see the Senator from Oregon--I want to come out on the floor next week with some other Senators from farm country, and I think we should talk more about it. As I understand the Senator from Iowa--and he can correct me if I am wrong--it is that we don't want to wait until 2002 for a new farm bill. We want to reopen this farm bill and give our farmers some leverage so they can get a decent price. 
   What we are doing is essentially saying to these grain companies and to these packers: Go ahead. You can get by with not having to worry about paying producers as little as possible because you have all the power of the marketplace. Then they will have enough money to support their families. Then we come in and provide them with some money so they can support their families. We are basically subsidizing these big grain companies and these packers. We are not getting to the root of the problem. If it is a farmer-owned reserve we are talking about, CRP, mid-size and family farmers, that is what people want. Zeroing in on mid-size farmers is what people want. They want to be able to make a decent price. 
   Isn't that really what the Senator from Iowa was saying? 
   This will be on my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Iowa the other thing which worries me is we had an estimate the other day by the USDA that net farm income was going to go down 17 percent this year. As I look at their figure for some sort of income support, it isn't going to be enough to provide even a safety net. But the point is it doesn't deal with the root causes. 
   Let's have some fight. Let's say this farm bill is a miserable failure. Let's have some antitrust action. Let's have a level playing field. Let's give our farmers some leverage so they can get a decent price in the marketplace. 
   I think there are a number of us who are going to come out on the floor with just those proposals. 
   Am I correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will make one final point, I say to the Senator from Oregon. It looks to me as if--I think it is going to happen--the religious community, the AFL-CIO, the farm organizations, and the environmental organizations are all beginning to organize for March 20-21. Basically, rural America is coming here to raise the roof. I think it will be healthy for all of us. 
   I think the pressure should be put on dealing with the price crisis and dealing with other issues that are important to rural America, which for too long have been out of sight and out of mind. I think we have to get off the dime. We have to make a difference. 
   Mr. President, I want to reinforce what my colleague from Iowa said. I think what the President and the administration suggested for family farmers is too timid. Where is the fight? I appreciate getting some help to people--sort of safety-net help. Getting some income to our family farmers is not going to be enough. It doesn't deal with the root of the problem. We don't want to wait until 2002 to write a farm bill. It is a failed farm bill. It is a failed farm policy. We are grinding 
   family farmers up into pieces. We are driving people off the land. It is an economic convulsion, and it calls for bold action. 
   I don't know where the fight is. To tell you the truth, I don't see the fight. I say to the Senator from Iowa that we have different positions in the Presidential race. This has nothing to do with who we are supporting. 
   But where is the fight? Where is the boldness? Where is the leadership? We need people--starting with the President--to come out and say this ``freedom to fail'' bill has not worked. There is tremendous economic pain. Time is not on our side. There is an economic convulsion out there. Family farmers in rural communities want a decent price. We want farmers to get a fair shake in the market. We want antitrust action. We want a fair trade policy. We want stable agriculture. We want a different farm policy. In all due respect, this proposal will only help people somewhat. Thank you. But we have to do a lot more. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator from Oregon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could we have order in the Chamber, please? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague from Virginia is here. I have a fairly lengthy statement. I know our colleague from Virginia wants to speak. I wish to take a few minutes. I ask the Chair, are we going to vote tomorrow? Do we have a time limit today or not? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I take a few minutes now and then come back after the Senator from Virginia speaks, are we going to be in session for a while tonight speaking on this? Will I be able to do that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have to leave anyway in a few minutes for a meeting with some farmers. Let me take a few minutes, and I will be done. Then I will be pleased to yield the floor and then come back later. 
   Mr. President, first of all, let me thank the Senator from Iowa for his comments. I think I can be brief because much of what he says I am in such strong agreement with. 
   Mr. President, tomorrow morning, do we have any time for debate before the vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Is there a scheduled vote tomorrow at a particular time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that I may have 20 minutes to speak tomorrow morning.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, about the only chance we ever have to discuss interest rates and monetary policy in this body is when Alan Greenspan gets renominated to the Federal Reserve Board, which admittedly seems to happen on a fairly regular basis. 
   That is a shame, because there aren't many issues we debate in the Senate that have a bigger impact on the average American family. Why are interest rates so important? Well, for one thing, the decision to raise or lower interest rates directly affects pretty much every single American, in one way or another. Small businesses and farmers who need to take out loans. Families who want to buy a home or a car. Parents who need a loan to send their children to college. The economic future of all these people may hinge on the decisions of the Federal Reserve Board. 
   More importantly, the decision to raise or lower interest rates has a direct effect on anybody who has or wants a job. Interest rates have got to be the single most important factor determining the rate of unemployment. They're also tremendously important in determining how fast our economy grows. If the Fed slams the brakes on the economy, consumer demand falters, inventories pile up, employers lay workers off, and millions of lives are disrupted. The health and vitality of every community in every corner of every state depends to some extent on monetary policy decisions made by the Federal Reserve Board in Washington. 
   The importance of monetary policy has only grown over time. As former Labor Secretary Bob Reich likes to point out, we used to have two accelerator pedals for the economy. One was cutting interest rates. The other was government stimulus. But now that we're locked into running surpluses for as far as the eye can see, fiscal policy is pretty much dead. Interest rates are the main policy tool we have left for influencing the economy. Indeed, interest rates have a greater impact on most American families than the budgets we pass and most of the legislation we consider. 
   Yet for some reason monetary policy has fallen off the political radar screen. At one time, of course, it was a front-burner political issue. Certainly in the late 19th century, there were few issues that inspired more heated debate among farmers in the Midwest than the gold standard and monetary policy. And for decades after the Great Depression, one of our most pressing national political issues was full employment, which was--and is--integrally connected to interest rates. 
   While interest rates and monetary policy have become the most important instruments of U.S. economic policy, they have also been virtually walled off from democratic decisionmaking and debate. In this as in so many other areas, there seems to be an inverse relationship between an issue's importance to the American people and the amount of time we spend debating it here on the floor of the U.S. Senate. 
   I don't think that's the way it ought to be. That's not the way a democratic government should operate. These are vitally important issues, and they deserve a full and open debate involving broad public participation. 
   We did have something of a debate on monetary policy the last time Mr. Greenspan was renominated to the Board. Looking back on that discussion, I'm proud to say it was a substantive one. It focused not on personal criticisms, but on the important issues of monetary policy that affect all of our constituents. 
   I also think the arguments raised in the 1996 debate can serve as a useful starting point for today's deliberations. We have a record from that debate, and we have four years of economic experience to compare it against. And based on that record and that experience, we can draw certain conclusions. 
   The conclusions I draw are as follows. I think monetary policy over the past 4 years has been a pleasant surprise for some of us, in ways that I'll discuss in a moment. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the premise of the current movement toward higher interest rates is not only unfounded--but also contradicted by our experience of the last four years. In other words, I'm less troubled by where we've been than by where I see us heading in the near future. 
   The past four years have been a tremendously successful experiment in monetary policy. I would hope we could all draw the right lessons from that success. During this entire period, we have had relatively low levels of unemployment and strong economic growth. Yet throughout that time, we have also heard repeated demands from various quarters for the Fed to raise its rates. 
   We all know what these appeals sound like, but let me just give a couple examples. In January 1997, soon after the conclusion of our last debate, the Bond Buyer quoted an analyst from Merrill Lynch as saying,  
   If we see further employment gains that are above the equilibrium level, it looks like wage acceleration will get worse and that will be about as bad a news as we could have for the markets.  
   In the January 1997 American Banker, an analyst from Chase Manhattan issued a very similar warning:  
   The labor market is growing progressively tighter because of job growth, unemployment is near 20-year lows and there is an unambiguous acceleration in wage rates when you get beyond the volatility. At some point the Fed is going to have to raise interest rates.  
   Another banker quoted in the January 1997 American Banker said,  
   The Fed is going to have to do something to slow the economy down. If you want to have an impact and want to slow the economy down, you hit it with the big stick first.  
   And so on and so forth. There is nothing unusual about these appeals from inflation hawks. We hear them all the time, no matter what economic conditions may be. The Fed hears them all the time from the Reserve Banks. In fact, Chairman Greenspan makes the same argument himself from time to time. This is more or less the same argument he made last month in his speech before the Economic Club of New York. 
   The difference is that back is 1997 and 1998, Mr. Greenspan and the Federal Reserve ignored those repeated and urgent appeals for higher rates to put a lid on wage growth. For its wise  and dovish stance on interest rates in 1997 and 1998, I think the Fed deserves a great deal of credit. 
   The important thing for us to realize is that this unexpected experiment in monetary policy worked. The Fed's unusual deviation from tight money orthodoxy was clearly successful. Yesterday the President was handling out kudos for the longest economic expansion in our history. He did praise Chairman Greenspan, but I think we need to be more specific in our praise. The key policy choice we should be focusing on is the Fed's reluctance to raise rates during a critical period in the mid to late 1990's. 
   The results of that policy choice have been much-discussed elsewhere, so I don't need to go into all the details here. But there is one thing I want to emphasize: the importance of sustained low unemployment for people on the lower end of the income scale. Finally, in the last couple years we are beginning to see wage gains for lower-income workers--for the first time since the 1970's. Unemployment for workers who haven't completed high school was only 6 percent in December, an historical low. And low unemployment is especially important for minorities, who traditionally experience higher rates of joblessness. Black male joblessness has fallen to its lowest level in 30 years, through it's still about twice the rate for whites. 
   The benefits of low unemployment and strong economic growth extend beyond the people who found jobs or are starting to see higher wages for the first time in a long time. We all benefit. The principal reason why the federal budget went into surplus four years ahead of schedule--in 1998 rather than 2002--was because of higher-than-expected economic growth. That wouldn't have been possible had the Fed slammed on the brakes. 
   Higher economic growth also extended the life of the Social Security Trust Funds, demonstrating how probably the best thing we can do to protect Social Security is to ensure strong economic growth in the future. Because of lower unemployment and higher growth, crime rates declined, as many people who would otherwise have no hope were able to obtain stable employment. And finally, it goes without saying that the consequences of welfare reform would have been much more devastating had the Fed followed the advice of those inflation hawks and raised interest rates. 
   There is one other milestone decision by the Fed that deserves to be singled out for praise. In September 1998, I and several other senators spoke on the floor about the need for interest rate reductions to address the instability in the global economy in the wake of the Asian Crisis and the collapse of the Russian economy. The Fed acted quickly and decisively. It not only resisted calls to raise rates in 1998; it actually lowered them by 3/4 of a percentage point between September and November. I'm convinced that those rate reductions made a decisive contribution towards stabilizing global financial markets. 
   So much for my sweet talk about the Federal Reserve. Today I also want to express my deep concern about where the Fed appears to be headed in the next few months. I'm troubled that the Board may be unlearning the lessons of its successful recent experiment in monetary policy and reverting to its old ways. Already in June, August, and November of last year, the Fed raised rates by 1/4 of a percentage point. These hikes effectively restored rates to where they were before the Russian crisis of 1998. 
   In his speech last month, Chairman Greenspan announced that he is once again worried about wage-induced inflation. Virtually everyone understood those remarks as another signal that 
   the Fed will raise rates soon. The Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) has been meeting yesterday and today, and today announced another increase of 1/4 percent. Some economists believe there could be a total of four rate increases by the end of June. 
   To panic over inflation in the present economic circumstances strikes me as something close to irrational paranoia. Inflation is the true ``Phantom Menace.'' First of all, the core inflation rate last year fell to 1.9 percent in 1999, the lowest it's been since 1965. Let me repeat that: core inflation is the lowest it's been since 1965. It's true that consumer prices rose faster than that last year, but this was due to sharply higher energy prices, which should not lead to higher rates. Most commodity prices are still at record lows. 
   In his speech last month, Chairman Greenspan spelled out his concerns. He underscored the danger that rising wages could cause inflation to spiral out of control. I find this argument very troubling. It seems to disregard our experience since 1996, for which the Fed deserves, as I said, a great deal of credit. Just a moment ago I was praising the Federal Reserve for rejecting this very same argument in 1997 and 1998. 
   Simply put, I do not believe there is any credible indication that labor costs are about to send inflation spinning out of control. Wage growth actually slowed in the last year, despite persistently low unemployment. In the fourth quarter of 1999, average hourly wages increased at an annual rate of 3.3 percent. That's less than the 4 percent they increased from 1997 to mid-1999. Measured a different way, wage growth fell from 4.1 percent in 1999 to 3.6 percent in 1998. Wage growth could not have been slowing down over the past couple years if labor markets were operating as Chairman Greenspan describes. 
   As Chairman Greenspan and the President have both pointed out, a remarkable feature of the current recovery is that workers' wage demands have been lower than their historical levels. Yesterday the President claimed the reason why American workers have not made ``enormous wage demands'' is that they have become ``very sophisticated about the way the world economy works.'' That's an interesting comment. He seems to be suggesting that the way the world economy works is to depress wages. 
   In his now-famous testimony before the Senate Budget Committee in January 1997, Mr. Greenspan had a slightly less upbeat explanation for slackening wage demands. He pointed to job insecurity. ``Heightened job insecurity explains a significant part of the restraint on compensation,'' he testified. Of course, Chairman Greenspan raised this issue because he was concerned the situation could not continue forever: ``At some point in the future,'' he said, ``the trade-off of subdued wage growth for job security has to come to an end.'' 
   There are several reasons why workers would be more insecure in today's economy, but it's hard for me to consider any of them good news. An unprecedented wave of mergers and corporate restructurings has led to layoffs for many senior employees. Labor unions have lost a great deal of its bargaining power, for various reasons. These include deregulation, a trade deficit that destroys unionized manufacturing jobs, and competition from low-wage imports. 
   But even if wage growth really were picking up steam, it would not necessarily lead to inflation. I think pretty much every 
   economist would agree that wages can increase at least as fast as productivity growth--without causing a rise in prices. That's because when there's more wealth to go around due to greater efficiencies, more of that wealth can be shared with workers without asking consumers to pay more. 
   And that's exactly what's been happening. Ever since 1996, productivity has been rising at about 1 percent above the expected trend line. For the past couple of years productivity has been rising at about 2 percent, though real wages rose only 1.5 percent last year. Unit labor costs have fallen since 1996, meaning that wages have not been keeping up with productivity. Moreover, productivity growth is expected to remain strong in the future. There is plenty of room for more wage growth. 
   One of the lessons of this recovery is that low unemployment can actually lead to higher productivity. It makes sense. For one thing, when labor markets are tight, businesses have to make more efficient use of their workers. That leads to higher efficiency and more wealth that can then be shared with workers. It's a virtuous cycle. 
   In fact, this recovery has taught us several lessons which don't seem to be reflected in the Fed's recent shift toward higher rates. First and foremost, the theory that there is a natural rate of unemployment--around 5.5 or 6 percent--below which inflation will spiral out of control appears to be thoroughly discredited.  
   In June 1996, when we were debating Mr. Greenspan's previous renomination, I came to the floor to take issue with this theory, which is called the NAIRU (Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment). At that time, unemployment was 5.6 percent. I was arguing that unemployment could go lower without sending wages--and therefore prices--into an upward spiral. 
   Let's look at the record since 1996. Unemployment has been below 6 percent the entire time, with no inflationary spiral in sight. Unemployment has been 4.1 percent for four months now. It's been below 5 percent for 30 months. It's been below 4.5 percent for 14 months. Not only is inflation not spiraling out of control, it's pretty hard to detect any sign of inflation at all. Core inflation is the lowest it's been since 1965. 
   In the most recent issue of the American Prospect, the economist James K. Galbraith writes,  
   Faced with such embarrassing facts, only a handful of economists continue to defend the natural rate idea. And yet, the natural rate movement still influences policy. Some of its survivors vote on the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee. They are presently driving interest rates upward on precisely the pretext that low unemployment must otherwise soon bring rising inflation. It is a notion for which no evidence exists. And except for the damage that higher interest rates will do, it would be hard not to laugh.  
   The case for raising interest rates is also exceedingly weak. In fact, the very arguments made recently by Chairman Greenspan and various Wall Street analysts should actually persuade us to keep rates where they are. Yes, sustained low unemployment is having some effect on wages, especially at the lower end. It's not sending inflation spiraling out of control, but it is having an effect. But this is a positive phenomenon that we should be attempting to prolong, for all the reasons I listed before in praising the Fed's performance in 1997 and 1998. The price of raising rates now is all the benefits we've seen flowing from lower unemployment and 
   faster growth. 
   After all, many working people are only now beginning to feel the effects of this recovery. Only in the last two years have wage increases given workers back some of what they had lost over the past two decades. During most of the recovery of the 1990s, the median wage actually fell. Wages for low and middle-income workers dropped sharply in the early 1990's, due in part to an unnecessarily tight monetary policy by the Federal Reserve. 
   This trend didn't start to reverse itself until 1996--thanks to a looser monetary policy from the Federal Reserve, as well as an increase in the minimum wage. It wasn't until 1999 that median wages regained their peak level from 1989, before the last recession. That's where most workers are today: about where they were before the last recession. This is no time to actively dampen wage growth--precisely at the moment when workers are starting to benefit from this recovery. The policies that brought about these much-delayed benefits for working people are precisely the ones that the Federal Reserve is now poised to reverse. 
   I think we have an obligation to make sure all Americans, not just corporate CEOs and those at the top of the income ladder, can benefit from this recovery. Just recently, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the Economic Policy Institute released a report on income inequality in America. This is what they found. Despite strong economic growth, income disparities were significantly greater in the late 1990's than they were in the 1980's. In two-thirds of all states, income inequality between the top 20 percent and the bottom 20 percent increased. The earnings of the poorest fifth of American families rose less than 1 percent between 1988 and 1998, but the earning of the richest fifth jumped 15 percent. The income gap significantly narrowed in only three states--Alaska, Louisiana, and Tennessee. 
   Even my friend JOHN MCCAIN has noted the widening gap between the haves and the have-nots in America, and that message seemed to go over pretty well in New Hampshire. 
   Raising interest rates now could also have an indirect effect on inequality--by raising the value of the dollar and therefore contributing to the problems of our trade deficit. In the last 4 years, our trade deficit has grown from less than 1.0 percent of GDP to almost 3.5 percent of GDP in the fourth quarter of 1999. This is unprecedented. 
   The burgeoning trade deficit has contributed to inequality by resulting in the loss of manufacturing jobs. We lost 248,000 manufacturing jobs in 1999, and 520,000 since March 1998. Because of low unemployment, those job losses are generally made up by job creation elsewhere. But the new jobs tend to be nonunionized, with lower pay and fewer benefits. In the last two years, job growth has occurred exclusively in the service industries, where wages and benefits are often much lower. 
   A second problem with the trade deficit is that it casts a pall over this recovery. We are now the world's largest debtor nation. We have accumulated over $2 trillion in trade deficits over the last couple decades. Yesterday, even President Clinton said he worried that if foreign investors lost confidence in our economy and pulled out their money, they could do major damage to the economy. 
   We have to consider the danger that unmanageable trade deficits or unnecessary monetary tightening could not only erase 
   wage gains for lower-income workers, but could actually send the economy into a tailspin. This recovery has been kept alive by Americans who have been spending more than they earn, partly due to the ``wealth effect'' of soaring stock prices. Lowering growth with higher interest rates could cause investors to reassess their rosy assumption about future growth and puncture the speculative bubble on Wall Street. 
   In fact, in his speech last month in New York, Chairman Greenspan also mentioned the danger of a stock market correction. If the goal is to curb ``irrational exuberance'' on Wall Street, there are much better ways of doing that. In the 1950's and 1960's, Fed Chairman William McChesney Martin, Jr., repeatedly raised margin requirements, but Mr. Greenspan has refused to take that step. 
   Given the sizable dangers involved--both in terms of the damage it would do to lower-wage workers and to the overall economy--I think raising interest rates at this time would be extremely unwise. If an inflationary situation actually materializes and turns out not to be a figment of bankers' collective imaginations, the Fed can always deal with that problem if and when it arises. Recent evidence suggests that interest rate moves no longer operate with a lag due to the increased openness of the Fed. 
   We have made a tremendous advance in the four years since we last debated this issue. We have discovered that the three-decade-old mystery over falling wages and rising inequality turns out to be not so mysterious after all. The fact is, we know how to raise wages and reduce inequality. We do not have to reinvent the wheel. Among other things, we need to maintain low unemployment over a sustained period. We've done this before and we can do it again. It would be a tragedy if an unjustified fear of rising wages or an economic downturn kept us from continuing that progress. 
   I think Chairman Greenspan's performance at the Fed has been very helpful in drawing out these lessons over the past 4 years. It would be a tragedy--both for our country and especially for workers at the lower end of the income scale--if he were to ignore those lessons to once again focus on putting a stop to rising wages. 
   Mr. President, it is kind of ironic that about the only time relevant to really discuss monetary policy or have a debate about monetary policy is when Alan Greenspan gets renominated to the Federal Reserve Board. It is a shame because there is probably not an issue that has greater impact on people's lives. People just do not know that much about monetary policy. But the fact is, when you look at the real interest rates, you are talking about a policy that dramatically affects small business people, dramatically affects family farmers, dramatically affects the industrial base of our country, dramatically affects low- and moderate-income people, and it is critically important to policy. 
   There was a time in the history of our country, in the late 1800s, when there was a tremendous emphasis on monetary policy and the need to keep real interest rates down. There was a time post-Depression when there was a  real focus on employment policy and the need to move toward full employment, and the whole question of what the tradeoff was between having high interest rates that would choke off economic growth, and then people would not be able to find jobs at decent wages. 
   I think in 1996 we had a very good debate. I don't think the debate was so much about Alan Greenspan--I voted against Alan Greenspan's nomination then--but it had more to do with the debate about monetary policy. 
   What was going on during that debate is that many of us were saying we were very concerned about the Federal Reserve policy. We were concerned about the focus on raising interest rates, and what we argued was all this discussion about NAIRU, all this discussion that you could not have low levels of officially defined unemployment without at the same time setting off an inflationary cycle, was simply wrong. What we were saying is it is extremely important to have a public policy which puts as our first priority that people should be able to obtain jobs at decent wages and that this was critically important when you looked at monetary policy. That is because when interest rates go up, then in fact it is very difficult to sustain this kind of growth. 
   I am pleased to say tonight--I think this is the irony--I was right about the policy and wrong about Alan Greenspan. I think I was right to say that the Fed is not accountable to citizens in this country. There is no democratic accountability, with a small ``d.'' These are critically important decisions that are sort of walled off from any kind of public accountability. I think that is a profound mistake. This is a decisionmaking body with enormous power that crucially defines the quality or lack of quality of people's lives. But what we were saying, some of us, was that we took exception to the Fed's policy of always seeing inflation right around the corner when it did not exist, a kind of phantom inflation, and raising interest rates and having as its 
   conscious policy: We are going to raise interest rates because unemployment is falling too low and we have to do something because surely there will be inflation. 
   Therefore, many people still do not get jobs or the jobs they get are jobs at fairly low wages. And, when real interest rates go up, it has a draconian effect, again, on small businesspeople, a horrible effect on farmers and producers in my State, and a very harsh effect on low- and moderate-income people, a harsh effect on home buyers, a harsh effect on people who do not have a lot of money who are trying to buy a car. 
   I give Alan Greenspan credit. What has happened in 1997 and 1998 is that Alan Greenspan did a superb job of being a dove. He was a dove. He did not raise the interest rates. There were many people in the Banking Committee, many people in the financial community, who kept saying he needed to raise those interest rates. He did not do so. I think his stewardship has been very important. As a result of that, this is what has happened. As a result of not raising these interest rates up until this past year, as a result of not accepting this orthodoxy, what have we been able to accomplish? Record low levels of unemployment--that is very important to communities of color; very important to people who are traditionally the ones who are most affected by high levels of unemployment. It is very important to the basic idea of economic opportunity in America because the key to economic opportunity is to be able to find a job, even more a job at a decent wage, even more a job at a decent wage under civilized working conditions. 
   What else has been accomplished? Because we have had low levels of unemployment, finally we have seen the lowest wage workers be able to bid up their wages because this is a good market for them. We are beginning to see some closing of the gap. It is closing very little, but up until the past couple of years, or this past year, we had not seen much improvement at all in terms of real wages. We have seen some improvement. 
   What have we been able to accomplish? Record surpluses. What have we been able to accomplish? The Social Security trust fund appears much stronger than it did because of economic performance. What have we been able to accomplish? High levels of productivity. By the way, if your productivity is ahead of your wage increases, I do not believe you are ever going to have to be concerned about an inflationary cycle. 
   So I come to the floor of the Senate to say it was important we had this debate about monetary policy in 1996. I think those of us who took exception to the Fed's policy of continuing to raise interest rates were correct. Those of us who did not accept NAIRU and this whole argument that below a certain level of unemployment you could not go any further, I think we were correct. Those of us who argued it was important to keep interest rates down for economic growth and economic recovery and jobs at decent wages, that it was important to keep interest rates down for the sake of our producers, for the sake of the manufacturing sector, for the sake of small businesses, for the sake of moderate- and middle-income households were right. I was wrong about Alan Greenspan because, as it turns out, under his guidance, the Fed has what I think is a pretty darned good record. 
   Therefore, I now come to part three. I am perplexed that now, again today, we saw an increase. The Fed is now raising interest rates, this past year I think three or four times. Yet inflation is at a record low level, and the only sector of the 
   economy where we see inflation is energy costs, which has a whole lot to do with the OPEC cartel and does not have anything to do with ordinary families in the United States of America. 
   So it seems to me, for reasons I cannot explain, Mr. Greenspan and the Fed are ignoring the very success that they have had. I do worry because I think if we continue to raise the interest rates, not only is it going to undercut our economic growth, not only will it have a disproportionate negative effect on those Americans who struggle the most, much less middle-income families, not only is it going to add to our already serious trade imbalance which plays havoc--which is both a result of and plays havoc with our industrial sector--but I think if it is going to continue to raise these interest rates, it threatens this unbelievable economic performance we have seen. 
   One final point I make tonight is that during this period of economic growth we have not all grown together. To a certain extent we have grown apart. Actually, the gap between the richest 20 percent and poorest 20 percent grows wider and wider. Why, given the success of the Federal Reserve, why, given the success of this economic performance while keeping interest rates down, why, given some improvement for the lowest wage workers, why, given the surpluses, why, given the Social Security trust fund looking better because people are working, because people are making better wages, why at this point in time does Mr. Greenspan and the Federal Reserve seem to be going down the path of raising interest rates in direct contradiction to a policy that has been successful? That is the question. 
   I wanted to come to the floor to speak because I find it, as a teacher, much less a Senator, to be just an interesting and, to a certain extent, perplexing irony. In 1996, we had a debate about monetary policy. It only comes up when the Greenspan nomination comes up. I think we should be debating monetary policy more. Once upon a time it was a front burner issue. But then Alan Greenspan has surprised me and kept real interest rates down. I want to give him all the credit in the world for that, and I think it has been very important and tied to our economic performance. It is very important to the people with the least amount of economic clout in our country who do not do as well financially. But now it looks as if Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve have been going in the exact opposite direction of what has been a successful economic policy. That I fear, that I worry about, that I dissent from, and that I wanted to speak about as a Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I just finished speaking with our Sergeant at Arms on the Senate side, Jim Ziglar. He is in full accord with what I am about to say.  
   Many of us, perhaps all of us, attended the services for Officer Chestnut and Agent Gibson. I think one of the things we all agreed on is there were many ways we were going to honor these officers. One of them was to make sure we provided the utmost support and security for them, much less security for the Congress and the citizens who visit the House and the Senate. 
   What I have noticed is that we have still been having single posts, where you have one officer at a very busy post with many people streaming in. I have raised this question for quite a few months now. I have never spoken about it on the floor of the Senate, but I am intending to try to put some pressure on as a Senator because we have to do something about this. 
   I know the Senate Sergeant at Arms feels strongly about this. I have talked to many police officers whom I think all of us respect, and we owe them a real debt of gratitude for their service. Frankly, this is no way to say thank you to the Capitol Police--to have one officer at a station where you have all sorts of people coming in, it is an impossible security situation. It is impossible. I have seen this with my own eyes. I have had police officers come up to me and say, ``This is just intolerable. We thought there was going to be a change.'' 
   I want to say on the floor of the Senate--and I have waited month after month to do this, but again I see it with my own eyes, and police officers come to me about this--I believe there has to be change. I don't think there can be any possible excuse for not living up to our commitment that at least two police officers be at every one of these posts. 
   One example: One officer was at a post where during his shift 700 people came in--one officer. This is unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable. I think we have to do much better. 
   I am not going to be a know-it-all, I am not going to tell you that I know how much additional money needs to be spent, or whether this is a systems or management issue, or whether there is some slowness on the House side. I don't know what is going on. I just know there is no excuse for it. 
   We did a supplemental appropriation after these two officers were slain, murdered, of a little over a million dollars, about $50 million each year. That was for weapons, vests, for security enhancement, and for overtime staffing up in ways that we need to staff up. I don't know what has happened with this appropriation, whether we need more money, more authorization, or something. The only thing I know is we have a situation right now--after two officers were murdered--where we have at some of these posts just one officer. There should be two officers at every post. I believe that is a commitment we have made. I speak on the floor of the Senate to say that we have to do better for these police officers, and the sooner we do, the better. 
   I say to my colleague from Virginia, I think I will come back every day and speak to this situation that exists. I will defer to my colleague from Virginia and I say to the Chair that I hope to come back this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, China's terrible treatment of ethnic minority Uighurs, a Muslim community in the northwestern province of Xinjiang, has not received the same level of international attention as that of the Tibetans. The Uighurs are also subject to ongoing repression and violations of their internationally recognized rights of free expression, association and belief. The Chinese government is cracking down on a separatist movement in Xinjiang as part of its overall strategy of maintaining ``stability'' at all costs. According to human rights organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, over the past year China has used draconian measures including public sentencing rallies, long prison terms, and--alarmingly--a rising number of executions of suspected ``splittists.'' 
   In an apparent attempt to stop the flow of information overseas about this crackdown, Chinese security officials arbitrarily detained a prominent Uighur businesswoman, Ms. Rebiya Kadeer, this past August in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang. Her husband is a U.S. resident who broadcasts on Radio Free Asia and the Voice of America, championing the cause of his people. 
   For years, Ms. Kadeer has been praised by the Chinese government for her efforts to promote development in Xinjiang, including a project helping Uighur women develop their own businesses. She has also been praised in the Wall Street Journal for her business savvy. She owns a department store in Urumqi as well as a profitable trading company. 
   But now she has been put out of business, is being held in prison awaiting trial, charged last September with ``illegally offering state secrets across the border.'' Even worse, her son and her secretary were also detained and have already been sent to a labor camp. If Ms. Kadeer is convicted, she could be sent to prison for many years. 
   Ms. Kadeer's case demonstrates that even business people in China are not safe from the arbitrary use of state power. As China tries to become a member of the World Trade Organization, this reality is crucial to bear in mind--both for Chinese and foreign investors. 
   I urge my colleagues to call on the President to seek the immediate, unconditional release of Ms. Kadeer, her son, and secretary. Today I offer a sense of the Senate resolution urging their release, and hope it can be considered quickly and adopted unanimously by this body. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we are talking about tabling the amendments this afternoon; is that right--not now? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I remind my colleagues of what I said last week about this legislation which I think, with all due respect to my colleague--I do have a lot of admiration for Senator HATCH--is still fundamentally flawed legislation. It contains numerous provisions which are unbelievably harsh toward those citizens who are most vulnerable in our society, and that troubles this Senator. 
   I think the entire concept of the bill is wrong. It addresses a crisis that appears to be self-directed. It rewards predatory and reckless lending by banks and credit card companies which fed the crisis in the first place, and it does nothing to actually prevent bankruptcy by closing economic security to working families. I reject the notion the Senate should assume that there are problems with the bankruptcy code because more people are going bankrupt. 
   Real bankruptcy reform would address the root causes of bankruptcy. It would address the concentration of financial markets which are increasing the clout and power of big banks and credit card companies to unprecedented levels. It would make working families more financially secure. It would address skyrocketing medical expenses. It would confront the economic balkanization in this country, the increasing schism between the wealthy and the rest of America. 
   This bill does none of these things. It imposes harsh penalties on families who, by and large, file for bankruptcy in good faith because it is the only option they have. 
   The two amendments I have offered to this bill--the payday loan amendment, which would curb a form of predatory lending which targets low- and moderate-income working families, and also the low-cost basic banking amendment, which would require big banks with more than $200 million in assets to offer low-cost banking services to their customers if they wish to be able to make claims against debtors in bankruptcy proceedings--would go a long way toward making this bill more fair and more balanced. 
   When I spoke last week, I said the bankruptcy crisis is over and it ended without Congress passing legislation. I cited the fact that bankruptcy proceedings actually fell last year--fell last year, I repeat--by 112,000 cases. 
   My good friend from Alabama came to the floor and said something that, actually, I think is true: This bill doesn't have anything to do with the number of bankruptcies. I think he was more right than probably any of us want to seem to admit. But the decrease in bankruptcy filings is significant, and let me explain why. 
   Ironically, the bankruptcy crisis probably ended because Congress has not passed a bill. The bean counters in the consumer credit industry realized that all of these bankruptcies were not good for profits, so they started lending less money. They were more careful about to whom they lent the money. In fact, overall consumer debt actually declined in 1998. And guess what. There were fewer bankruptcies. But if S. 625 becomes law, bankruptcy protection will be harshly rolled back. It will even be more profitable to overburden folks with debt, and the banks and credit card companies will fall over themselves trying to do it. But this time, America's working families are going to pay even more of a price. 
   This argument isn't purely historical or theoretical. Empirical data backs it up. I want to take my colleagues through a little bit of history. I want to read from an article published in the August 13, 1984, issue of Business Week. The article was entitled: ``Consumer Lenders Love the New Bankruptcy Laws.'' It was written in the aftermath of Congress' last tightening of the bankruptcy code in 1984. Here is how the article goes:  
   It doesn't take much to get a laugh out of Finn Casperson these days. Just ask him the outlook for Beneficial Corp. now that the U.S. has a tough new bankruptcy law. ``It looks a lot rosier,'' says the chairman of the consumer finance company, punctuating the assessment with a hearty chuckle.  
   The article then explains what the banks and credit card industries got back in 1984:  
   But when someone seems to be abusing the revised law, a judge can, on his or her own, throw a case out of Chapter 7, leaving the debtor to file under Chapter 13. And in Chapter 13, where an individual works out a repayment plan under court supervision, lenders now can get a court order assigning all of a borrower's income for three years to repaying debts .....  
   Anyway, it goes on to say that the lender does not have to worry any longer and they can have these predatory practices and they can target people and they do not have to worry if there is no protection for people. But there is protection for them. 
   Does this sound familiar to my colleagues? These ``reforms" --and I put ``reforms'' in quotes--are substantially similar to what the industry says are desperately needed now--that means to curb abusive filings. That is exactly what the Congress gave the credit card industry in 1984. But the question is, After we passed that bill in 1984, how did lenders behave after the ``strengthening'' of the bankruptcy code? That story will help us answer the question: If we give them this new, stricter, lopsided law in 2000, what will they do with it? 
   From the same 1984 Business Week article:  
   Lenders say they will make more unsecured loans from now on, trying to lure back the generally younger and lower-income borrowers recently turned away.  
   Why not? We are giving them all the protection in the world. They can go about with all kinds of unscrupulous practices that I am going to talk about: Target poor people, target single parents, target young people, and not have to 
   worry. 
   But that is exactly the problem. The consumer finance industry went after these folks with a vengeance post 1984. Lenders felt so protected by the new bankruptcy law that they eventually threw caution to the wind and began using the same aggressive, borderline deceptive and abusive tactics that are now common in the industry. That is exactly what we are going to do with this law--give them a blank check to continue with this deception. 
   In a 1999 Harvard Business School study entitled, ``The Rise of Consumer Bankruptcy: Evolution, Revolution, or Both?'' David Moss of the Harvard Business School and Gibbs Johnson, an attorney, lay out the case. They say--colleagues and staff listening to this debate, I think this is an important piece:  
   It is conceivable, therefore, that the pro-creditor reforms of 1984 actually contributed to the growth of consumer (bankruptcy) filings. This could have occurred if the reforms exerted a larger impact in encouraging lenders to lend--and to lend more deeply into the income distribution--than they did in deterring borrowers from borrowing and filing.  
   Mark Zandi, in the January 1997 edition of the Regional Financial Review, writes:  
   While forcing more households into a Chapter 13 filing, though an income test would raise the amount that lenders would ultimately recover from bankrupt borrowers, it would not significantly lower the net cost of bankruptcies.  
   I emphasize:  
   Tougher bankruptcy laws will simply induce lenders to ease their standards further.  
   That is exactly what we are doing with this bill. 
   Again, we know this is exactly what happened. Credit card companies sent out over 3.5 billion solicitations last year. They use aggressive tactics to sign up borrowers. Is there anything in this ``reform'' legislation that holds them accountable? No. Once again, the big givers and heavy hitters and well-connected dominate. But when it  comes to the poor, when it comes to single-parent families, when it comes to senior citizens, when it comes to the people who are most vulnerable, we have unbelievable harshness in this legislation. 
   These credit card companies use aggressive tactics to sign up borrowers--and to keep you in debt once they get you. They also go after low-income individuals, even though they might not be good credit risks. Why? Because they are desperate for credit. They have a captive audience. Poor people can be charged exorbitant interest rates and fees. Despite the fact that there are hundreds of credit card firms targeting low-income borrowers, interest rates and terms on these cards have not been driven down by the supposed ``competition.'' 
   For these borrowers, for low-income people, the market is failing. 
   In a June 3, 1999, interview in USA Today, Joe Lee, a respected bankruptcy judge for over 37 years in the Eastern District of Kentucky, placed the blame for the current high number of bankruptcies squarely on the backs of the banks and the credit card companies. There is not a word in this legislation holding them at all accountable for their unscrupulous practices; they all target people who are desperate for credit and have no other choice but to receive loans on horrible terms, the poor and the vulnerable. 
   When asked if he had seen many people file for bankruptcy 
   who could afford to pay most of their debts, he said--because that is the premise of this legislation, that you have all this abuse--  
   No. It's simply not true. Most of them are very poor, drowning in debt. The target (of bankruptcy reform) should be the consumer credit [card] industry and the laws governing extension of consumer credit. Instead they're robbing the poor to enrich the rich.  
   That is exactly what this legislation does. But these poor people are invisible. They have no clout. They have no power. They have no lobbyists. They are not the heavy hitters. They are not the big givers. They are left out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The letter begins:  
   In a letter to you, dated September 7, 82 professors of bankruptcy law from across this country expressed their grave concerns about some of the provisions of S. 625. In a public letter dated September 16, two professors took the opposing view. One of the principal concerns of the 82 law professors was that S. 625 may adversely affect women and children. 
   Proponents of the bill--namely, the consumer credit industry--have responded to the concerns raised about the effects of the bill on women and children with a media blitz.......  
   They have the money for a media blitz. These women and children don't have the money for that.  
   ......trumpeting the view that ``Bankruptcy reform helps women and children.'' A September 14 letter from the consumer credit issuers proclaims that ``S. 625 vastly improves the position of women and children who depend on family support payments from an absent parent who has filed for bankruptcy.'' A full-page advertisement also dated September 14 asserts, ``The truth is that bankruptcy reform gives much-needed help to single parents and their children who are dependent on family support payments.'' The advertisement cautions in large type: ``Distorting the facts about reform helps no one.'' The undersigned professors agree that ``distorting the facts about reform helps no one.'' The real distortion is the assertion that S. 625 would benefit women and children.  
   You can pass this legislation but I am not going to let you get by with that claim.  
   The truth is that notwithstanding the pleas of the bill's proponents, this legislation does not help women and children. Thirty-one organizations devoted exclusively to promoting the best interests of women and children continue to oppose this pending bankruptcy bill. The concerns expressed in the professors' letter of September 7 regarding how S. 625 would hurt women and children have not been resolved--they have not even been addressed.  
   Reading from one other section of the letter:  
   We also express our concerns on behalf of the more than half a million women heads of household who will file for bankruptcy this year alone. As the heads of the economically most vulnerable families, they have a special stake in the pending legislation. Women heads of households are now the largest demographic group in bankruptcy and according to the credit industry's own data, they are the poorest. The provisions in this bill, particularly the provisions that apply without regard to income, will fall hardest on them. A single mother with dependent children who is hopelessly insolvent and whose income is far below the national median income still would have her bankruptcy case dismissed if she does not present copies of income tax returns for the past three years--even if those returns are in the possession of her ex-husband. A single mother who hoped to work through a chapter 13 payment plan would be forced to pay every penny of the entire debt owed on almost worthless items of collateral, such as used furniture or children's clothes, even if it meant that successful completion of the repayment plan was impossible.  
   I don't think the choice could be framed any more starkly. Here is the core question: 
   Will Senators be on the side of these women who are struggling to raise their families or do they see these women as the banks and the credit card companies do--as an economic opportunity, ripe for exploitation? 
   Mr. President, I hope my colleagues will recognize as they take a second look at this legislation that a vote for this bill is a vote against consumers; it is against women, it is against children, and it is against working families. 
   I believe our country and our society and this Senate should be judged by how we treat our society's most vulnerable members. By this standard, this is an exceptionally harsh piece of legislation. All the consumer groups oppose this bill; 31 organizations that are devoted to women and children's issues oppose this bill. 
   The two amendments I will speak to after I have given them context are my payday loan amendment, which would curb a form of predatory lending that targets low- and moderate-income and working families, and the low-cost, basic banking amendment, which would require big banks with more than $200 million in assets to offer low-cost, basic banking services to customers if they wish to be able to make claims against the debtors in bankruptcy proceedings. I think that would make the legislation at least a little bit more fair and balanced. 
   First, let me speak to my payday loan amendment. This is one that should have the vote of 100 Senators. This amendment would prevent claims in bankruptcy on high-cost transactions in which the annual rate exceeds 100 percent. That is what I am going to ask Senators to vote on. We would prevent claims in bankruptcy on transactions in which the annual rate exceeds 100 percent--such as payday loans and car title pawns. Now, these loans are marketed as giving the borrower a ``little extra until payday.'' 
   Do you know what happens with these loans? It is incredible. You have hard-pressed people, poor people, senior citizens, women, people of color, people who live in our rural and urban areas, and they can't get the credit any other way, so they get a loan for $100, which will hold them over until they get their paycheck. They get charged these huge fees--15 percent or more. These credit companies, unscrupulous companies, can put a lien on their car and even require that they give them the key to the car, and then when they can't pay it back--which is often the case--they just keep rolling the loan over and over and over again. For example, a $15 fee on a 2-week loan of $100 ends up being an annual rate of about 391 percent because people ask for the loans over and over again. Rates can be actually as high as 2,000 percent per year, or they take title to the car. 
   This is absolutely incredible. Someone can take out a $100 loan, and the car might be worth $2,000, and these companies that we don't do a darn thing about--I know some of the national media has had some exposure, thank God. I just hope the Senate is sensitive to this question. They are hard-pressed people with nowhere to go for a $100 loan. Maybe there has been an illness in the family or the car broke down, or whatever the case is. They end up getting charged 300, 400, 500, 600 percent. Then they get harassed and they say: We have the check you made out to us. We are going to cash the check and you will be charged with writing a bad check and you can go to prison. These are unscrupulous practices. If the car is worth $2,000, they can basically repossess the car, sell the 
   car, and in a lot of States they don't even have to give back to the owner anything that they make over what the owner owed them. Can you imagine that that goes on in this country? Why in this ``bankruptcy reform'' legislation have we not at least paid a little bit more attention to how we can protect some of our consumers? 
   Now, nobody needs to charge this type of interest rate for a loan. Indeed, this industry is grossly profitable as a result. Stephens Incorporated, one of our investors, says they can expect a return of 48 percent in 9 months to a year and can expect profit margins in excess of 30 percent. Stevens Incorporated reported that there were 6,000  storefronts making payday loans in 1999 across the country but estimates the potential ``mature'' market as being 24,000 stores nationwide generating $6 billion in fees. With these kinds of profits, only your conscience will keep you out of this business. 
   With these kinds of profits, only your conscience will keep you out of this business. It is amazing. You make these loans, you say you are going to help people, you charge them high fees, and you roll it over and over again. You end up charging way above 100 percent per year. You repossess their car. You sell the car. You don't even give them back the additional money you make beyond what they owed you. You do all this with impunity, and these are the poorest people, most vulnerable people who are targeted, and we don't have anything in this legislation to protect them. Let me tell you, Senators, if you want to protect them, you will and you should vote for this amendment. 
   I say to my colleagues that these sleazy debt merchants, expanding their tentacles into our cities and towns, are the mirror image of the retreat of our Main Street and mainstream financial institutions from the same communities. Some of my colleagues on the floor know this. When we had our community banks and smaller banks, they cared. They helped small businesses out and helped out hard-pressed people. They were willing to help out. But now that we have moved to these branch banks and all of this consolidation, they don't. So people have to rely on these kinds of loans. 
   According to an analysis by the brokerage firm Piper Jaffrey, as reported in the Washington Post, ``established customers'' of one payday lender engaged in 11 transactions a year and could end up paying $165 to $330 for a $100 loan. 
   This vote is going to be watched. This is one I think national media will pay attention to because we have had some horror stories. We know about what has happened to people. The question is, Whose side are we on? Are we on the side of vulnerable people or on the side of single-parent households headed by women, on the side of children, or are we on the side of these unscrupulous credit card companies? 
   The following June 18 New York Times piece is typical of the horror stories associated with payday lending:  
   Shari Harris, who earns around $25,000 a year as an information security analyst, was managing money well enough until the father of her two children, 10 and 4, stopped paying $1,200 in child support. ``And then,'' Ms. Harris said, ``I learned about the payday loan places.'' She qualified immediately for a two-week $150 loan at Check Into Cash, handing it a check for $183 to include the $33 fee. ``I started maneuvering my way around until I was with seven of them,'' she said. In six months, she owed $1,900 and was paying fees at a rate of $6,000 a year. ``That's the sickness of it,'' Ms. Harris said. ``I was in a hole worse than when I started. I had to figure out a way to get out of it.''  
   Mr. President, here is where we are. If you have desperate customers--the most vulnerable--and these are the kinds of loans they are dependent upon, where the terms are outrageous--only somebody with no alternative would seek to borrow money at such scandalous rates. 
   The Consumer Federation of America noted in a September 1999 report entitled ``Safe harbor for Usury'' that, quote:  
   Consumers who are desperate enough for credit to pay triple digit interest rates for two week loans have very little market power to bring rates down. The real costs of payday loans made in small sums for very short periods of time may not be clear to unsophisticated consumers. When lenders deny that their cash advances are `loans' and fail to comply with Truth and Lending Act disclosures of Annual Percentage Rates, consumers do not have the key price tag needed to comparison shop for credit. If, as the industry claims, payday loan customers have nowhere else to go for small loans, rate regulation is necessary to prevent abuse of a captive market.  
   That is what is going on. The industry is saying to Senators: Oh, no, you can't do anything about this because these people are desperate and they come to us for loans and we perform a vital service. But does that justify scandalous fees? On the contrary, it justifies stringent regulation to protect the most vulnerable citizens. What are we about if we cannot at least extend this kind of protection? 
   If it is poor credit which drives a borrower to a payday lender, the borrower is likely to find himself in still deeper water after taking one of these high interest loans. For example, in Tennessee--the state with the highest bankruptcy rate in the country--payday lending is becoming an increasing problem for the bankruptcy system. As one Chapter 13 bankruptcy trustee, as quoted in the March 18th edition of The Tennessean put it, quote:  
   I see them (payday lenders) as the last straw. I would certainly say they are compounding the problem. We are dealing with a bankruptcy filing rate that's through the roof. You are looking at one of the basic causes: lending to people who are not credit worthy and extracting exorbitant interest rates from them.  
   Why aren't we doing something about this? This amendment says if you have a 100-percent interest charge over a year, you are not at the table when it comes to bankruptcy, and the collections of these payday loans can be coercive. 
   For example, in September, the Cook County, Illinois State's Attorney filed suit against Nationwide Budget Finance, a St. Louis based payday lender, alleging multiple violations of Illinois Consumer Installment Loan Act and Consumer Fraud Act, charging that Nationwide threatened consumers with criminal charges and lawsuits when it had no intention of taking such action. The State's attorney stated, quote: ``Apparently, pay day loan businesses are so lucrative that it is more cost-effective to write off bad debts rather than to try and collect them, even though they harass and intimidate their customers.'' Additionally, the company required borrowers to list four references on the loan application. But the references weren't used for the loan approval, instead Nationwide would place harassing to the people listed if the borrower defaulted. 
   That is why this amendment amends the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act to prohibit coercive collecting tactics in lending transactions where deferred cashing of a check is involved. 
   I should also point out that, at the very minimum, if we are going to be talking about accountability and responsibility, why don't we make it a little more lenient with this piece of legislation? It takes two to tango. These unscrupulous credit card companies have something to do with bankruptcy. 
   Such loans are patently abusive. They should not be protected by the bankruptcy system. And because they are so expensive, they should be completely dischargeable in bankruptcy so that debtors can get a true fresh start, and so that more responsible lenders' claims are not ``crowded out'' by these shifty operators. 
   Consider that. Why should we penalize some of our good companies that are responsible lenders by letting these unscrupulous loan sharks be at the table? Why should unscrupulous lenders have equal standing in bankruptcy court with a community banker or a credit union that tries to do right by their customers? And lenders should not be able to take advantage of their customers' vulnerability through harassment and coercion. 
   That is what this amendment is about. 
   Mr. President, my amendment simply says: if you charge over 100% annual interest on a loan, and the borrower goes bankrupt, you cannot make a claim on that loan or the fees from the loan. 
   Colleagues, you have such a clear choice. There is no reason in the world that you should not vote for this amendment. 
   I grant you that I come to the floor today to speak for some people who haven't been included in the system. They are just poor and they are vulnerable, and therefore they are fair game for these companies. 
   I have just said to you that my amendment says if you charge over 100 percent as an interest rate and the borrower goes bankrupt, you cannot make a claim on that loan or on the fees on the loan. 
   Why don't we make the legislation just a teeny bit fairer? Why don't we have just a little bit more balance? Why don't we go after these unscrupulous operators? 
   The second amendment I've offered on this bill is my low cost, basic banking amendment. This important consumer amendment would require big banks with more that $200 million in assets to offer low-cost basic banking services to their customers if they wish  to be able to make claims against debtors in bankruptcy proceedings. 
   We have been talking about responsibility. What about the responsibility of the banks and the lending institutions to offer inexpensive means to conduct financial transactions and to save money for low-income people? 
   Right now, the minimum balance that people are supposed to have in their accounts and the high fees mean that for about 12 million Americans, they can't afford to open up an account; they can't afford to have a checking account. What happens when people can't afford to open up a checking account? They are forced to complete their financial transactions either through costly check-cashing operations or they carry around whatever sums of money they have when they go out to purchase groceries or to pay their rent. These are risks that people should not have to take. 
   For example, ACE Cash Express, a national check-cashing company, charges between 3 and 6 percent of a check's value to convert the check into cash. That is what poor people are forced to do. There would be a charge of between $15 and $30 on a paycheck of $500. While that may not seem to be much money to many of my colleagues, to many low- and moderate-income families who live paycheck to paycheck, that $30 could be a meal; that $30 could be a piece of clothing they could buy for their child; that $30 could mean they could go visit a doctor. 
   We have been passing legislation that has driven these small banks out, that has led to all of these mergers and acquisitions, with these huge branch banks making billions and billions of dollars. All I am saying is, why can't we at least say to them: You have some community responsibility; you ought to at least give people low-cost basic bank services. If you do not, then you are not at the table in bankruptcy proceedings against such a bank. 
   This amendment focuses on banks with more than $200 million. I want to be crystal clear that I am not talking about the smaller banks because the smaller banks have done a good job. Much of my work is in rural America. The smaller banks and the community banks have done a good job. They go out of their way to help. But the problem is that these small community banks that have been connected to Main Street have been connected by these huge financial conglomerates that are much more connected to Wall Street. They don't really know the people. They don't know them at all. They sure as heck don't go out of their way to help them. 
   Would this amendment present an unfair burden to these larger banks, as some of my colleagues may argue? Not according to a survey of the Consumer Bankers Association. According to the CBA, 70 percent of the institutions found that offering a basic bank account did not result in a financial loss for their bank or impose a burden on their operation. 
   What in the world is going to happen to seniors? What is going to happen to low-income elderly people? As the U.S. Government begins to make the shift to electronic distribution of benefits, pensions, and wages, consumers must have access to banking services. Now more than ever, the 6.5 million recipients of Social Security and SSI, the Supplemental Security Income program, who do not have a checking account, will face even a steeper uphill battle in their attempts to access these funds. They currently cannot afford the monthly fees, nor do they have the money to keep the minimum balance in their checking accounts necessary to complete these financial transactions. 
   What are we saying to senior citizens who in the future will need a bank simply to get their electronically transferred Social Security check? Let's not forget that it is not just the financial giants that are affected by this process of modernization. It is everyone. We should not try to close the door to low-income consumers who desperately need access to basic banking services. If we provide wider access to bank accounts, we will reduce bankruptcy, we will promote financial literacy, and we will reduce low- and moderate-income families' reliance on high-cost check cashers and payday lenders. 
   Why should bankers who are unwilling to promote the general good be given the same standing in bankruptcy court as those who do? I am tired of seeing the folks in the private sector who do the right thing being put at a competitive disadvantage because their competitors will not. 
   I will conclude by characterizing the debate this way: Over the past several decades, our economy has become more and more balkanized. We have, indeed, seen an economy that is booming. But I come from a State where we have had an economic convulsion in agriculture and our family farmers and our rural citizens are falling behind. The U.S. economy is becoming more and more balkanized. More wealth and more economic power is concentrated among a few. What we have been doing in the Senate over the past several years is passing legislation which provides the lion's share of benefits for those at the top of the heap, those with the big bucks. The two amendments I have introduced give us an opportunity, in a small way, to reverse this trend. 
   This bill is already an enormous giveaway to the financial services industry. It basically rewards lenders for their aggressive, irresponsible lending habits. I went over that already. So I say to colleagues, since we seem to be on our way to changing the rules for America's working families with this legislation, since we seem to be about to ratify the scandalous lending practices of the banking industry, let the Senate adopt several amendments that balances this legislation. Both of these amendments test whether we are serious about curbing bankruptcy. These two amendments, the payday loan amendment and the lifeline banking amendment, are antibankruptcy amendments. A vote for either of these amendments is a vote to promote responsible financial habits among consumers and responsible lending from the credit card companies--responsible lending 
   from the credit card companies. A vote against these amendments sanctions the abandonment by big banks of poor people and, increasingly, the middle class, and ratifies the stranglehold that unscrupulous lenders have on low-income and moderate-income and working families. There is no doubt in my mind this is a flawed piece of legislation. It punishes the vulnerable and rewards the big banks and credit card companies for their own poor practices. 
   Earlier I used the word ``injustice'' to describe this legislation. That is exactly right. It will be a bitter irony if the creditors are able to use a crisis, largely of their own making, to convince Congress to reduce borrowers' access to bankruptcy relief. That is exactly what is going on. 
   I said at the beginning of my statement that real bankruptcy reform would address the concentration of financial markets, which are increasing the power and clout of the big banks and credit card companies to unprecedented levels. It would make working families more secure. It would deal with the crisis in agriculture and what is happening in rural America. It would address skyrocketing medical expenses. It would confront the economic balkanization of the country. It would confront the increasing chasm between the wealthy and the rest of America. 
   But instead of lifting up low-income and moderate-income and working-income families, this bill punishes them. I hope my colleagues reject this legislation. I strongly urge the Senate to at least provide some balance to this legislation and to accept my amendments. 
   I have also a document from the Department of Labor, written by an officer, Capt. Robert W. ``Andy'' Andersen, and I believe this was written to Senator LIEBERMAN. In this letter, he is talking about these payday loans. What he is saying is we have this problem in the military. We have our military people who are underpaid--we know all about this--so they end up having to rely on these payday loans, and the same thing happens to them, to men and women in the Armed Forces. We do not pay them enough, we don't reward their work, we don't provide them the salaries they and their families deserve--just like other low- and moderate-income people--and then they rely on these payday loans. They are desperate. They take out a loan for $100 which then gets rolled over and over and over again or have liens put on their car, they lose that car, they get charged interest rates of 300, 400, 500 or 600 percent a year, and it is a living hell for their families, because of the same practices by unscrupulous  lenders who are making billions of dollars. I think we ought to be on the side of these men and women in our military who are confronted with this. 
   But you know what, I am not going to use this as the big emotional argument in this debate. It is not just the military. It is low- and moderate-income people. It is men and women in the Armed Forces. It is a lot of single-parent families, I am sorry to say most of them headed by women. It is some of our senior citizens. Contrary to the stereotype, the income profile of elderly Minnesotans and elderly people in Utah and around the country is not very high. It is basically the most vulnerable citizens in our country. 
   I will speak to this payday loan. I would like to know why in the world there would be opposition to this amendment. We are saying if you are charging over 100 percent interest a year, you are not going to be at the table. I thought we were on the 
   side of consumers when it comes to people being charged exorbitant fees and interest rates. It says you cannot use these coercive practices that the State of Illinois is going after these consumers on wherein they threaten people and tell them they are going to cash their checks and then they are going to end up going to prison. 
   I believe the vote on these amendments--and I am going to focus on the payday amendment--is a test case. This is a test case vote. Whatever you think about the overall bill--I have laid out my case against it--on this amendment this is a test case as to whether or not we can at least provide some protection to the most vulnerable citizens, whether or not we are on the side of the most vulnerable people, women and children, whether we are on the side of low- and moderate-income, working-income families, whether we are on the side of hard-pressed people, whether we are on the side of regular people, whether we are on the side of ordinary citizens, or whether we are on the side of unscrupulous loan shark companies that have no conscience and no soul and exploit people. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wonder whether I could ask unanimous consent that the vote be first on the payday amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleagues. I thank Senator GRASSLEY from Iowa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President and colleagues, I was on the floor earlier talking about this whole problem of payday amendments, payday loans, and car title pawns. To make a long story short, it is a very unscrupulous practice. You have targets of low-income, you have targets of women, you have targets of seniors who basically get a loan because of something that happened in the family--medical emergency, you name it, for $100, $200. It is rolled over and over again. They can end up being charged 300, 400, or 500 percent a year--or a lien can be put on their car. The car can be repossessed and sold. There isn't a requirement in many States that these families at least get back what they no longer owe to these creditors. I don't know why, when it comes to bankruptcy, those lenders who in good faith have provided loan money to people should be crowded out. 
   This amendment simply says if you are charging over 100 percent in annual interest on a loan and the borrower goes bankrupt, you cannot make a claim on that loan or the fees from that loan. 
   This is all about whether we are on the side of a lot of vulnerable citizens--on the side of single parents, families, women, on the side of moderate-income citizens--or on the side of these loan sharks. 
   This amendment, I believe, should get a huge vote. Every consumer organization is for this amendment, and many other organizations representing women and labor and low- and moderate-income people are for this amendment. I certainly hope the Senate will vote for this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to point out to my colleagues that a lot of these unscrupulous credit companies get around State regulations and protections through Federal law. A lot of them are chartered by Federal law. 
   So it is certainly appropriate to take this action if we want to protect consumers and not be on the side of these loan sharks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw amendment No. 2537. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000201</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that intern Livia Vedrasco be allowed privilege of the floor today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before I go on in this debate on this bankruptcy bill, since I have a very different position on this piece of legislation than my colleague, Senator HATCH from Utah, I say to him I think all of us in the Senate, even when we do not agree with him, like to see him on the floor. He is a Senator 
   with a tremendous amount of dignity. He is a very, very fine Senator. So we welcome him back. 
   Mr. President, I will start out talking about a couple of amendments. The first amendment I want to make reference to--then I want to talk about this bill to give some context for these amendments--is an amendment which would curb a form of predatory lending which targets low- and moderate-income families. 
   One of my criticisms of this bill is it is very one sided and does not deal with these kinds of unscrupulous lending practices. This amendment, which is called the payday loan amendment, would prevent claims at bankruptcy on high-cost transactions in which the annual interest rate exceeds 100 percent such as payday loans and car title pawns. 
   I say to my colleague from Utah and other colleagues in the Senate, this is an outrageous practice. As long as we are talking about bankruptcy reform, we ought to make it clear this kind of predatory lending practice means these folks cannot have claims in bankruptcy. Let me give some examples, and I will go into this more next week. 
   First, on payday loans, what we are talking about is the situation of a family where maybe the car breaks down. These are people who do not have a lot of money. Maybe it is an illness, a medical bill. It is called a payday loan. They seek a 2-week loan; maybe it is $200, maybe it is $100. What happens is the lenders, these credit companies that are involved in these payday loans, will say we will make the loan to you and you write out a check to us, and also here is going to be the fee we are going to charge, which equals high interest, then 2 weeks from now you pay us back. It turns out quite often people cannot pay back the loan because these people are under the gun, in which case they roll it over again and again and again, which is exactly what the payday lenders want, to the point where, for example, a $15 fee on a 2-week loan of $100 equals an annual interest rate of 391 percent. There are some instances where the actual interest rate is 2,000 percent. 
   I think a lot of people in the lending industry are not happy with this practice at all--I want to give some credit where credit is due, no pun intended. Additionally, what these pay day lenders do is use a coercive practice where they say to very hard-pressed families: We have the check you made out to us and if you don't pay us back, we are going to go ahead and bounce the check and then you will be subject to criminal prosecution. They use that as a threat. They don't follow through, but they intimidate people. 
   Let me go on to talk about car title pawns. This is unbelievable, American people. It is hard to get people's attention on this bankruptcy bill. I think people ought to know some of the practices that go on in the country. 
   In this particular case, you have a double whammy. People are hard pressed. If they were not hard pressed and had nowhere to go, if they were big customers with big banks, they would have no problem. We are talking about hard-working, poor people, low-income people in Arkansas, Minnesota, Utah, desperate for money. What are they going to do? 
   In this particular case with the car title pawns, they get a $100 loan and the creditor puts a lien on the car and says you have to pay us back with the fee, high interest. If you don't pay them back--literally quite often they require the key to the car as part of the condition for granting the loan--they take the car. They sell the car and in some states they don't even have to give back to the original owner the additional money they make beyond what the loan was. They keep all the money. Can you believe it? Can you believe it? This is exactly what goes on. 
   One of my amendments, that I am going to spell this out in greater detail next week, will say that there is some predatory lending which clearly targets hard-pressed low- and moderate-income families, which we find obscene. We intend to have some kind of ground rules here, some kind of accountability. Basically what we are saying is--this is the proposition--we are not going to let you make a bankruptcy claim where you have had a credit transaction in which the annual interest rate exceeds 100 percent. If we are going to talk about bankruptcy reform, I am hoping to see my colleagues out here with a good, strong affirmative vote. 
   I will briefly talk about the second amendment because I will have more time to lay this out later. I will cooperate with the manager. I will begin to lay out my case. This is an important consumer amendment which will require big banks with more than $200 million in assets to offer low-cost, basic banking services to their customers if, again, they wish to make claims against debtors in bankruptcy proceedings. 
   We have talked about the responsibility of the consumers--hard-pressed people. What about the responsibility of banks and lending institutions to offer inexpensive means to conduct financial transactions and to save money? What happens is, they say you have to have a minimum balance of $1,000 in your account. If you do not, you have to pay an exorbitant fee, which could result in hundreds of dollars a year. These low-income people cannot afford it. There are some 12 million Americans who do not have the same kind of service that we have. As a result, then, they end up having to deal with unscrupulous kinds of dealers, like the payday lenders that I just described. 
   Our community banks in Arkansas and Minnesota went out of their way with low- and moderate-income people who live within their communities to make sure they were able to access low cost accounts. But now, with this consolidation and these mergers, a lot of these big branch banks do not see it the same way. So what we are simply saying is, we want these consumers to be able to have an affordable checking account, one that does not require a large minimum balance or costly access fees. That is what is going on. This amendment will speak to that. 
   But context for this. Again, I say to my colleagues, believe me, I am just absolutely amazed, when I look at some of the practices that take place in this country, that we are not, in this piece of legislation, dealing with it. But let me give some context for these amendments. I am a little bit surprised, frankly. 
   I say to my colleagues, since we are in disagreement on this, as I have already said to Senator HATCH, how good it is to see him here, and what a fine Senator he is. I think everybody in the Senate agrees with that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator from Utah. 
   I would not say it if it were not true. That is the way the Senator is. 
   But this piece of legislation is fundamentally flawed. It contains numerous provisions which are harshly punitive to those citizens who are the most vulnerable in our country. It addresses a crisis that no longer exists and that appears to be self-correcting. It rewards predatory and reckless lending by banks and credit card companies, which fed the crisis in the first place, and does nothing to actually prevent bankruptcy or to promote economic security for working families.  
   I do not see anything in this legislation that deals with the crisis of medical costs, that deals with what happens to people when they cannot get a job at a decent wage. I do not see anything in this bill that deals with housing costs. But what I see is a 
   fundamentally flawed piece of legislation. 
   I am amazed that it has sailed through the way it has. I am amazed there is not more opposition, which is punitive toward those people who are the most vulnerable in our society. This purports to address a crisis which does not even exist. 
   Professor Lawrence Ausubel of the University of Maryland notes that the peak increase in bankruptcy filings came and went in 1996. In fact, the filings in 1998 were barely an increase over 1997. We know now that there were 112,000 fewer bankruptcies in 1999 than there were in 1998--a nearly 10-percent decline. 
   Perhaps most startling, given what some of my colleagues have stated, is that credit card lenders have seen their chargeoffs--loans which are uncollectible--decline over the past 2 years. 
   So I ask my colleagues, is this a crisis? Despite the decrease in filings, there are still too many bankruptcies in America. I agree with that. However, this bill does not do anything to reverse this. It is going to make matters worse. The nonexistent crisis is being used to justify harsh restrictions on bankruptcy relief, which will harm those citizens who are most in need of its protection. 
   Colleagues, let me quote from the September 30, 1999, issue of The American Banker magazine. The title of the article is ``Bankruptcies Down; Enthusiasm for Reform Wanes.'' I quote from the article:  
   A retreat in bankruptcy filings from their record highs is causing precious little jubilation in the lending community. Lenders, who persistently point to the high rate of filings as one of their top business problems, may be concerned that a turnaround will undercut their effort to reform bankruptcy laws and make it easier to collect on poor credits.  
   Bankruptcy does not occur in a vacuum. We know, in the vast majority of cases, it is a drastic step taken by families in desperate financial circumstances and overburdened by debt. The main income earner--he or she--they have lost their job. There is a sudden illness. There is a terrible accident. All of us know that could happen to us. The bankruptcy system is supposed to allow a person or a family to climb back up after they have hit bottom, to have a fresh start. 
   There is no point in continuing to push a person and a family once their resources are overmatched by debt. That is what we are doing in this legislation. 
   The bankruptcy system simply allows families to regroup, to focus resources on essentials, such as home, transportation, and meeting the needs of their dependents. Sometimes the only way this can occur is to allow the debtor to be forgiven of some debt. In most cases, this debt would never be repaid because of the debtor's financial circumstances. 
   In fact, in over 95 percent of bankruptcy cases, creditors receive no distributions from the filer's assets, not because these folks are able to beat the system but because in the vast majority of the cases the debtor does not have any assets left. 
   The sponsors of this measure--the megabanks and the credit card companies--they do not like to focus on these situations. They talk about all of the abuses. But let me just cite some evidence here. A study by the American Bankruptcy Institute found that only 3 percent of debtors who file under chapter 7--which is what we are talking about--would actually have been able to pay more of their debt than they are required to under chapter 7. Three percent does not sound, to me, like a percentage of a lot of abuse. Even the Justice Department says the abuse of claims was only between 3 and 13 percent. 
   But what this legislation is going to do is, it is going to channel many more debtors into chapter 13 bankruptcy, where the debtor enters a 3- to 5-year repayment plan where very little debt is forgiven. As a matter of fact, under current law, 67 percent of the debtors in chapter 13 cannot fulfill or cannot live up to their repayment plan, often because they do not get enough relief. 
   So what are we doing? 
   Why is this so punitive and why is it so one sided? Why aren't we also addressing the predatory practices of these credit companies, of these lenders? This is apparently not obvious to many of my colleagues, but with all due respect, debt involves both the borrower and the lender. 
   I gave examples of some egregious practices with which I will deal in my amendments. As high-cost debt, credit cards, retail charge cards, and financing plans for consumer goods have skyrocketed in recent years--and so have many bankruptcy filings; we all know that--and are pumped on our children, our neighbors, as the consumer credit card industry has begun to aggressively court the poor and vulnerable, bankruptcies have risen. There is no question about it. Credit card companies brazenly dangle literally billions of dollars of credit card offers to high debt families every year. With this legislation, we are giving them a blank check to do even more. They encourage credit card holders to make low payments toward their credit card balances, guaranteeing that a few $100 in clothing or food will take years to pay off. The lengths to which these companies go to keep their customers in debt is ridiculous. 
   I already gave an example, when I was talking about what happens with these car title pawn companies and these payday loan companies. It is absolutely unbelievable. People get charged anywhere from 100 percent up to 2000 percent in interest by these unscrupulous dealers. All you have to do to enter into this is to have no conscience. People are desperate. You give them a $100, $200 loan. You basically roll it over when they can't pay it. Pretty soon they have to pay 300-percent interest on an annual basis. You take title to their car. They can't pay back $100. These are poor people; they are desperate. They had to come to you for that reason. Then you repossess their car, and you keep the money beyond anything they owed you. There is no accountability. 
   Yet in this bankruptcy reform bill, I don't see any discussion or any kind of rules or any kind of accountability or any kind of protection for consumers when it comes to these unscrupulous practices. I am amazed this piece of legislation has been sailing through. I think the President should veto this. 
   I will take some time to give context to this. A March 31, 1990, edition of the Detroit Free Press reported on a woman who sent a check to her credit card company to pay her entire credit card balance of $4,000. I know the Presiding Officer would say that is the way it should be done. She had the money. She could do it. A few days later, she got a call from the company offering her a lower interest rate for 6 months if she would let the credit card company rip up her check and keep the $4,000 balance on her card. Fortunately for her, this woman made the right decision and refused this insane offer. But if credit card companies are using these tactics to keep folks in debt, do they have any right to preach about financial responsibility? 
   Why is this piece of legislation so one sided? Why are we not talking about their unscrupulous practices and how to also make sure they live up to some kind of standard of responsibility? 
   I will quote a few lines from an L.A. Times feature called the Money Savvy Weekend. It is a column about money management. I would like my colleagues to hear how the author of the piece advises credit card holders to deal with card companies. 
   She starts out by saying:  
   Your credit card issuer is not your friend, or even your most trusted business partner, so if you've been thinking along these lines, stop now.  
   I say to my colleagues, if people think their credit card company is their friend now, they will know differently when this bill passes, when they see how their right to a fresh start has been eroded. This bill just gives these credit card companies everything they want, provides no protection for poor people, 
   provides no protection for single parents, no protection for senior citizens. What in the world has happened to the Senate? What has happened to Democrats? Why are we letting this bill go by without amendments? Why aren't we standing up and taking on this piece of legislation?  
   Continuing on from the L.A. Times feature, the author goes on to say:  
   Instead, start thinking of your credit card issuer as a slightly sleazy and overbearing salesman who controls one product you want, but who wants to trick you into buying the store. That salesman does not have your best interests at heart.......  
   Then in the same column:  
   Last week, a San Francisco law firm filed a law suit against Providian Financial Corp., alleging that the firm delayed postings (of payments), hid terms of its card agreements, and made it seem like a fairly useless $12.95-per-month credit protection plan was a requirement when it wasn't. The city's prosecutors are investigating the firm.  
   I could go on but here is the question. I talked about payday loans. I talked about repossessing cars. When we read S. 625, it is a clear indication of who has clout in the Nation's capital. There is not one provision in this bill that holds the consumer credit industry responsible for their lending habits. There is not one provision in this bill that holds the consumer credit industry responsible for their lending habits. I have spent time on two deplorable practices on which I will have amendments. We will have votes on it next week. But there is nothing in this piece of legislation that has a word to say about any of this. With all due respect, it is not all that surprising why. 
   Who do you think the people are who have to rely on payday loans? Who do you think the people are who have to rely on these car pawn loans? Who do you think the people are who by and large file chapter 7? You will come up with some abusive examples, but I have given you study after study that shows there is very little abuse. Most of the people who do this are hard-pressed people, poor people. You lose your job. You don't have a family you can go to who can help you out. Your car breaks down. You have an illness. You had no health insurance in the first place. Now we have this punitive piece of legislation that targets these citizens, the most vulnerable citizens, but gives the credit card industry all they want. 
   I think this is a sad reflection of who gets to the table and who doesn't and whose voice is heard and whose voice is not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would be pleased, if my colleague needs more time. I would like to make sure that I have the floor after the Senator speaks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will need some additional time. I was intending to try to finish before 12:30 because that is when we go into conference. My idea would be that I would then come back with these amendments, finish up right before we vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. What I am intending to do is call up my amendments. My understanding, originally, was we were going to perhaps vote today. We are not going to vote. Therefore, I was trying to accommodate my colleagues. I said I wanted some time to talk about the context of these amendments and that I would come out here today. I would lay out my case. Then, when we come back next week and vote, I want a final hour for the two amendments. Then we would vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Utah, I would have to respectfully decline. Originally, I had not agreed to any time agreement on these amendments. I said I would not agree. Then I was told that if I would come out today, try to speak before conference, and then reserve the final hour, agree to a time agreement next week for a final hour on two amendments, I would have an hour and whatever time I need. I said I would do that. I have given up on limited time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, as long as Senator LEAHY is speaking, I ask unanimous consent, because I do want to finish up and accommodate everyone, that when we come back, I do have a final hour to speak on my two amendments on Monday or Tuesday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object--I don't think I will--I ask for an hour to make my case. It is not an hour equally divided; it is an hour that I have divided for my two amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to begin my remarks about the overall bill, but let me call up my amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, there are a few of the truly onerous provisions of this bill affecting hard-pressed, working families. 
   Section 105--someone needs to focus on this--imposes mandatory credit counseling on debtors before they can seek bankruptcy relief, at the debtor's expense. This is regardless of whether the bankruptcy would be the result of simple overspending or something unavoidable such as a serious illness in your family and a medical expense. 
   Forty-four million people in our country do not have health insurance. 
   There is no waiver of this requirement if the debtor needs to make an emergency bankruptcy filing to stave off eviction or a utility shutoff. It is amazing. I can't believe this. 
   Again, you have a situation--I used to do a lot of work organizing with poor people--with a family, and these people are denied. They have to go through mandatory credit card counseling before they can seek bankruptcy relief, even when it is clear it isn't because they just overspent, that it is because something happened to them that was beyond their control, such as an illness in their family. And there isn't even a waiver of this requirement when the family has to get the emergency bankruptcy filing in order to stave off an eviction or a utilities shutoff. 
   It is cold outside today in Washington, DC. Do you know what a utility shutoff would mean to family? 
   Section 311 would end the practice under current law of stopping eviction proceedings against tenants who are behind on rent who file for bankruptcy. What we are saying is if a tenant is filing for bankruptcy right now, they have at least some protection. Section 311 will basically end this protection. You can go on with the eviction proceedings. 
   Section 312 will make a person ineligible to file for chapter 13 bankruptcy if he or she has successfully emerged from bankruptcy within the past 5 years, even if it was a successful chapter 13 reorganization where the debtor paid off all the creditors. If they have been through it successfully before and paid off all of the creditors, and there is an emergency medical bill or whatever happened--they lost their job--they are ineligible. 
   This is called reform? 
   I started out saying before the Chair came that you have this unbelievable practice right now that I am trying to go after with one amendment--these title car pawn loans and payday loans--car title pawn loans, again, where somebody needs $100, or $200, and basically they get the loan. The unscrupulous creditor says: We give you the loan. You pay us the high interest. In addition, we want the key to your car. We have a loan on your car. 
   If they do not pay it back at the end of the week, or after 2 weeks, they take the car key and sell it. Whatever money they make, they can keep, even if it is above and beyond what they owe the debtor. It is unbelievable. We ought to do something about that. This is a ludicrous business. These are hard-pressed people and this is the only place they can go right now. 
   I talked about these payday loans. In all due respect, again, these folks who do this ought not be covered by this bankruptcy. They ought not be able to collect these payday loans. It is unbelievable. It is the same thing. You need a loan of $100 for a week or two. You are charged 15 percent interest. They roll over again and again. It can be as high as 300 or 400. There have been some cases where it has been as high as 2,000 percent interest. 
   We ought to say, in all due respect, if you folks want to be allowed to claim, we ought to put a limit, and if the limit is going to be at 100-percent interest, it seems to me that is pretty high--100 percent interest payments? Maybe we want to say then we prohibit the recovery of loans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am sorry to say to my colleague that I have been yielding over and over again. I will try to finish by 12:30. Let me finish, and then I will yield. 
   Mr. President, on this piece of legislation, I started out citing that there are three or four national studies--three or four independent national studies, credible national studies. That is a matter of fact. What is supposed to be a crisis no longer exists, and the trend is that there are going to be fewer bankruptcies. 
   I then went on to say there are still too many. But the irony is that the reason a lot of people have to file for bankruptcy is because we haven't done a darned thing when people do not have health insurance. We haven't done a darned thing to make sure people find a job with descent wages. We haven't done a darned thing about affordable child care. We are doing nothing about the crisis in affordable housing, including in rural areas. All of this impinges on these families, but instead we have this piece of legislation. 
   I then went on to argue, and I cited a number of provisions which are draconian, this piece of legislation targets low-income people. The people who are going to be most harshly treated by this are poor people, senior citizens, women, and single parents. 
   I then went on, and I gave many instances to say that it does nothing about the unscrupulous creditors--nothing at all. There is no accountability there. There was not a call for responsibility on their part. 
   I will be back next week with two amendments. I will have an hour to argue my case. I hope at least on these two amendments I can receive majority support. I have tried to take some time this morning and I will take more time next week to at least get people in the country, people who watch this debate or people who write about this debate, to understand there are a lot of punitive provisions in this piece of legislation. It hardly can be called ``reform.'' 
   There are many organizations--consumer organizations, senior organizations, children's organizations, labor organizations--that have raised important questions about this. I think rather than a step forward, this is a very harsh step backward. 
   I am pleased to yield for a question or comment from my colleague from Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to debate this subject with my colleague next week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will the Senator from Nevada yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to follow the Senator from Nevada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, Judge Rick Solum from Minnesota told me--and I have to have this confirmed; it is dramatically jarring--there is actually a higher correlation between high school dropout and incarceration than between cigarette smoking and lung cancer. It is quite predictable. 
   The Senator from Nevada was talking about his daughter's experience as a second grade teacher. In many ways we harp on the complexity of it all to the point it becomes the ultimate copout, but a lot of these kids by kindergarten are way behind. There is a learning gap and they fall further behind and then they drop out of school and wind up all too often in prison. 
   It does seem to me this is a full agenda that we barely touched. 
   Sorry to interrupt. I am enjoying listening to the discussion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleagues, there are other colleagues on the floor. I have waited for some time. I think it has been an important discussion, but I am going to try, since there are other Senators on the floor, to abbreviate my remarks. I actually could speak for 3 or 4 or 5 hours right now. I will not. We will see when we are going to finish up today. 
   I would like to build on a little bit of the discussion I just heard, and then I would like to go to the issue at hand, which is the extension of the Northeast Dairy Compact, the way this was done, the impact on my State of Minnesota, and why we have been fighting this out. 
   First of all, I also thank Senator DURBIN for his very strong voice on the floor of the Senate. I say to Senator REID from Nevada, sometimes we come out here and compliment each other to the point it becomes so flowery, people are not sure whether it is sincere or not. I believe it is sincere. Senator REID is a good example of somebody in politics who, if he suffers from anything, it is modesty. He rarely takes credit. He really has done some tremendous work in the mental health field. He has probably done more than anybody in the Senate to get us to focus on the problem of depression. He never takes the credit. He should have included himself in this discussion. 
   I am talking about Senator REID. 
   Mr. President, I am not sure how exactly to view this overall omnibus conference report we now have before us. I am a little worried about sounding so negative that it will seem I only come to the floor to be negative. I do not. I think some of what my colleagues have talked about--given the framework we were working within and given where we started, I think there are some things people can feel good about. 
   I am pleased to give the administration and Democrats some credit for at least being able to get some resources for some areas of priorities, such as more teachers and schools and moving toward smaller class size. It was a fix. I know for the State of Minnesota, and I am sure for many States, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and the cuts in Medicare reimbursement had, no pun intended, catastrophic consequences, especially for our rural hospitals, some of the nursing homes, home-based health care, and teaching hospitals. At least we were able to make a difference for a couple of years, though, again, it is temporary. 
   I feel pretty good about some investment of resources that are going to be helpful to people in Minnesota. If I had to pick out one priority, it would be $14 million for the Fon du Lac School, a pretty important commitment of resources. I count as one of the best days as a Senator the day I visited Fon du Lac School. It is a pretty horrendous facility, and for years I have been trying to get some money to build a new school for kids in the Indian community. 
   It is interesting, just this past week I was there, and at the end of the discussion I said to the students: I have to leave in 30 seconds, and I am sorry we are finishing. Can any of you talk about one thing you care more about than anything else? 
   This one student who is age 15 said: The thing I think the most about is I would like for the children--I viewed him as a child at age 15--I would like the children to live a better life than we have been able to live, and I would like to live a life that will help kids do better. 
   I said to this student: That was the most beautiful, powerful thing I heard said in any school I have visited, and I have been in a school every 2 weeks for the last 9, 9 1/2 years I have been in the Senate. 
   I tend to come down more on the side of the editorial debate of the Washington Post. I do not think this Congress has much to be proud of at all. Part of what has happened is we have been engaged in a lot of mutual self-deception. I came out to the floor quite a while ago on an amendment dealing with veterans' health care. I said it was a deliberate effort to bust the budget caps. 
   The ways in which we have been talking about ``not raiding the Social Security surplus'' has been ridiculous. President Clinton started to do it. Tom DeLay has done it. We have put ourselves in a straitjacket. We know that is not what it is about, but it is great political sloganeering. 
   For Republicans who do not believe, when it comes to the most critical issues of people's lives, there is nothing the Government can or should do, then I think you are consistent and I respect your point of view, for those Republicans who take that position, and this is not a problem. But for Democrats and other Republicans who believe there are certain decisive areas of life in America, such as investment in children and education and opportunities for children, decent health care coverage, environmental protection, making sure we have some support for the most vulnerable citizens in the Congress, whether it be congregate dining or Meals on Wheels or affordable child care or, for God's sake, making sure children are not hungry in America, I do not think we have much to be proud of because we have done precious little. 
   As a matter of fact, I say to my colleagues on our side of 
   the aisle, if you were to take the ``non-Social Security surplus,'' 75 percent of it because of cuts in the budget caps of 2 years ago in a lot of these areas we say we care the most about, in real dollar terms we are still not spending as much as we spent several years ago. 
   I do not think we have all that much to be proud of and we have to do a lot better. I said at the beginning I would talk about some positive things. I do not want to come out here appearing to  be shrill. I do think, unfortunately, this is a pretty rigorous analysis. 
   We did not pass campaign finance reform. That is the core issue. That is the core issue, the core problem. We did not pass patient protection legislation. We have done precious little to deal with the reality of 44 million people without any health insurance coverage and many other people having health insurance coverage but being underinsured. 
   Under title I--I saw this listed as one of our victories--we are funding about one-third of the kids who are eligible to be helped. These are some of our most vulnerable children in America, to the point where in Minnesota, in St. Paul, after you reach the threshold of a school that has 65 percent low-income population, there is no money for any other schools. It is about a $16 billion shortfall, and we have increased spending by $75 million. 
   We have done hardly anything for affordable child care. We did not include prescription drug coverage as a part of Medicare. On a whole host of amendments I have worked on as a Senator, almost all of them were eliminated in conference committee; whether it be at least some support for kids who witness violence in their homes or trying to deal with the problem of exploitation of women in international sex trafficking or juvenile justice mental health services or having an honest policy evaluation of what the welfare ``reform'' is doing around the country or increasing some funding--I mean real funding, a real increase of funding--for Meals on Wheels or congregate dining or social services support. 
   If you look at it from the point of view of how at least I think we can make life better for others--I am not going to speak for others--I think this has been a do-nothing Congress, I really do. 
   I will make one other point before I talk about this dairy compact, and it is this: I am hearing so much discussion about testing. George W. is talking about testing third graders, and if they do not pass those tests, they do not go on to fourth grade. It is high-stakes testing, and by the way, I will have an amendment next year to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act which makes sure we do not start testing at that young of an age. 
   Here is the point. Jonathan Kozol wrote a book ``Savage Inequalities,'' in which he points out--and all of us know this about our States--some school districts have the best technology, a beautiful building, recruit the best teachers, have the best lab facilities, the best textbooks, and other schools have none of that. We do not do anything to change that. 
   I cite a second bit of evidence. We have all these reports and studies, irrefutable evidence that if you do not get it right for children by kindergarten, many of them come to school way behind and they fall further behind and then they drop out. This is critically important, and we invest hardly anything in affordable child care. 
   Third, we do not do anything about the concerns and circumstances of children's lives in New York City or Minneapolis-St. Paul or rural Aitkin County or rural anywhere or inner-suburban anywhere in the country before they go to school and when they go home, whether it be the violence in the homes, or the children who see the violence or the violence in the communities or children who come to school hungry or children who come to school with an abscess because they do not have dental care. It is not very easy for children to do well in school under these conditions. 
   We do not do hardly anything to change any of those conditions for children's lives in America so that we can truly live up to the idea of equal opportunity for every child. 
   But we are going to flunk them. We are going to fail them. We are going to give them standardized tests and fail them. We already know which kids are going to do well and which kids are not. I would argue it is cowardly. I would argue it is a great political slogan, but it is cowardly. There is a difference between testing and standardized--we should have accountability, but there are different ways of testing. 
   If you cannot prove you are giving every child the same opportunity to achieve and do well in the test, what are you doing giving these kids these standardized tests and flunking them and not letting them go on to the next grade? 
   We have done so little when it comes to good health care for every citizen, equal opportunity for every child, jobs at decent wages, and getting money out of politics and bringing people back into politics and speaking to the economic pain that exists among citizens in our country. 
   I start with agriculture. I am from an agricultural State. We have a failed farm policy that is driving family farmers off the land. We have not done a thing about the price crisis. We have had another bailout. We have some money for people so they can live to farm another day, but we have not changed a thing when it comes to farmers being able to get a decent price. We have not changed a thing when it comes to all the concentration of power in agriculture and in the media and in banking and in energy and in health insurance companies. We do not want to take on these big conglomerates. We do not want to talk about antitrust action. 
   So I argue that at the macrolevel this has been a do-nothing Congress. I think people in the country should hold us accountable. I say to the majority party, I think they should especially hold the majority party accountable because I think many of us have wanted to do much more. I think that is what the next election probably will be all about. 
   If people believe education and health care and opportunities for their children and jobs at decent wages are important issues to them--that is their center; that is the center of their lives--and they believe the Republican majority has not been willing to move on this agenda, and they feel as if there is a big disconnect between what is done here and the lives of people who we are suppose to represent, then I say, let the next election be a referendum. But I certainly wish we had done more. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, final point. Some of us have been fighting for several days. We are out of leverage now. It is toward the end. But to be real clear about it, there was a time, when the Northeast Dairy Compact was brought to the floor, it was going to be part of the 1996 ``Freedom to Farm.'' I think it is the ``Freedom to Fail'' bill. It was defeated. 
   But this compact, which was not in the farm bill that passed in either House, was then put into the conference committee. There is a reform issue on which we ought to work. There is one in which I am really interested. I do not think the conference committee, which has become the ``third House'' of the Congress, should be able to put an amendment, a provision, into conference that was not passed in either House; or, for that matter, take out a provision that was passed in both Houses. 
   So this got snuck in. It was part of a deal. It is how we got the ``Freedom to Fail'' bill, which has visited unbelievable economic pain and misery. 
   The argument that was made for the Freedom to Farm bill was it should all be in the market; there ought not be any safety net; so a family farmer should not have any real leverage for bargaining for a decent price. You name it. It was a great bill for grain companies, a great bill for the packers, but not a very good bill for family farmers. On the other hand, when it came to dairy, it was a different set of rules. And we were going to have these dairy compacts with administered prices. 
   Our dairy producers were just asking for a fair shot--dairy producers in States such as Wisconsin and Minnesota. 
   Let me explain. In my State, we have 8,700 dairy farms. We rank fifth in the Nation in milk production. These farms generate about $1.2 billion for our farmers each year. The average size of the Minnesota dairy farm is about 60 cows--60 cows per farm. We are talking about family-size farm operations. We are going to lose many more because this compact, for all sorts of reasons so negative, impacts on our dairy farmers. 
   Mr. President, I am disgraced by the recent action by the majority party to include such harmful dairy provisions to the State of Minnesota as part of the final spending bill this year. The tactics used to include dairy as part of  this bill is yet another illustration of the flagrant abuse of power. I and my fellow colleagues have fought hard and have been successful in defeating previous attempts to extend the Northeast Dairy Compact. We fought openly and fairly on the Senate floor, and now our successful efforts may be unjustly curtailed by clandestine negotiations by those who overtly misuse their power. This type of backroom negotiating style is clearly not the first time that harmful dairy provisions have been attached to the bill. We have been fighting such tactics since the authorization of the compact. In fact, the authorization of the Northeast Dairy Compact was inserted into the 1996 farm bill as part of a backroom deal. In 1996, I offered an amendment which successfully struck the compact out of the Senate bill and the compact was not in the farm bill initially passed by either House of Congress. Instead, it was later inserted during the bill's conference in the passage of the 1996 Freedom to Farm bill. Yet ironically, the 1996 Freedom to Farm bill was passed with the intent to remove government from the marketplace. Although, I adamantly opposed the bill, many viewed the 1996 farm bill as a way to decouple payments to family farmers. The thought at that time was that farmers should produce for the market and that Congress should eliminate a safety net for our farmers. 
   For some reason, we seemed to play by a different set of rules when it comes to dairy. We told our corn and soybean farmers that to succeed in the 21st century they should pay close attention to market signals, but at the same time we considered implementing compacts that drown out those signals for dairy farmers. And yet even among dairy producers, we scrutinized and only allowed one region of the country to provide a safety net for their farmers, while hurting farmers in other parts of the country. 
   Minnesota is not asking for special favors. All Minnesota dairy producers are asking for is a fair shot. I have spoken here before about the importance of family dairy farming to my State's economy. Minnesota's dairy industry is one of the cornerstones of the State's economy. We have 8,700 dairy farms in Minnesota, ranking fifth in the Nation's milk production. The milk production from Minnesota farms generates more than $1.2 billion for our farmers each year. Yet, the average herd size of a Minnesota dairy farm is about 60 cows. Sixty cows per farm. So we are really talking about family operations in my State. Family businesses with a total of $1.2 billion in sales a year, contributing to their small-town economies, trying to live a productive life on the land. 
   Let me read from a few farmers in my State of Minnesota who are hurting: 
   Eunice Biel, a Harmony, MN dairy farmer:  
   We currently milk 100 cows and just built a new milking parlor. We will be milking 120 cows next year. Our 22-year-old son would like to farm with us. But for us to do so he must buy out my husband's mother (his grandmother) because my husband and I who are 47-years-old, still are unable to take over the family farm. Our son must acquire a beginning farmer loan. But should he shoulder that debt if there is no stable milk price? We continuously are told by bankers, veterinarians and ag suppliers that we need to get bigger or we will not survive. At 120 cows, we can manage our herd and farm effectively and efficiently. We should not be forced to expand in order to survive.  
   Lynn Jostock, a Waseca, MN dairy farmer:  
   I have four children. My 11-year-old son Al helps my husband and I by doing chores. But it often is too much to expect of someone so young. For instance, one day our son came home from school. His father asked Al for some help driving the tractor to another farm about 3 miles away. Al was going to come home right afterward. But he wound up helping his father cut hay. Then he helped rake hay. Then he helped bale hay. My son did not return home until 9:30 p.m. He had not yet eaten supper. He had not yet done his schoolwork. We don't have other help. The price we get at the farm gate isn't enough to allow us to hire any farmhands or to help our community by providing more jobs. And it isn't fair to ask your 11-year-old son to work so hard to keep the family going. When will he burn out? How will he ever want to farm?  
   Les Kyllo, a Goodhue dairy farmer:  
   My grandfather milked 15 cows. My dad milked 26. I have milked as many as 100 cows, and I'm going broke. They made a living out here and I didn't. Since my son went away to college, my farmhands are my 73-year-old father and my 77-year-old father-in-law who has an artificial hip. 
   I have a barn that needs repairs and updates that I can't afford. I have two children that don't want to farm. At one point, in a 30-mile radius, there were 15 Kyllos farming. Now there are three. And now I'm selling my cows. My family has farmed since my ancestors emigrated to the United States. 
   When I leave farming, my community will lose the $15,000 I spend locally each year for cattle feed; the $3,000 I spend at the veterinarian; the $3,600 I spend for electricity; or the money I spend for fuel, cattle insemination and other farm needs.  
   The testimony I just read were from MN farmers who felt comfortable to share their names. I have additional testimony, but the farmers who shared their stories, had requested that I not use their name. This is testimony from a farmer in East Ottertail, MN:  
   Despite the ongoing difficulties, it is amazing the steadfast willingness of this family to try and hold things together. The farm is farmed by two families, a father and his son. 
   Since dairy prices fell in the second quarter of 1999, there was not enough income for this family to make the loan payments and to provide for family living and cover farm operating expenses. The Farm Credit Services would not release a loan for farm operating assistance, and so the family had to borrow money from the lender from which they are already leasing their cows. They have not been able to feed the cows properly because of the lack of funds. Because they cannot adequately feed their dairy herd, their milk production has fallen and is considerably lower than the herd's average production. In addition, because there was no money for family living, the parents had to cash out what little retirement savings they had so that the two families had something to live on day to day. 
   The son and wife had to let their trailerhouse go since they could not make the payments and moved into a home owned by a relative for the winter. Most of their machinery is being liquidated. However, there are a few pieces of machinery that go toward paying off their existing debt. The family will be selling off 120 acres of land in their struggle to reduce the debt. Recently, the father has been having serious back troubles and has been unable to help his son with the work. This is tremendous stress both physically and mentally on the son. The son has decided he is going to have to sell part of the herd in order to reduce the herd to a number that is more manageable for one person. In addition, the money acquired from selling off part of the herd will be applied toward their debt. The son hopes that these three items combined: selling machinery, land and part of the herd can pay off enough of their debt that he might be able to do some restructuring on the remainder of the farm and to reduce loan payments to a manageable amount where there is something left to live on after payments are made.  
   These are just a few of the stories. I read these stories, because it is important that when we consider national dairy policy here in the Senate, we need to keep in mind that we are determining the future of an industry and a way of life that are basic not only to the agricultural economy, but to the very soul of America's rural heartland. I am concerned that the dairy provisions attached to this omnibus bill will hurt Minnesota dairy farmers and frankly dairy farmers throughout the country. I have been on the floor before discussing how the dairy compacts and any reversal to the implementation of an equitable milk marketing system will harm Minnesota dairy farmers. However, the dairy language included in this bill goes even further and could potentially threaten all family dairy farmers throughout the nation. 
   What I am talking about and concerned about as are many Americans is the trend towards factory-farm and concentration in dairy. It is unnecessary and unwise. There is no reason we cannot have a family-farm based dairy system. A dairy system which promotes economic vitality in rural communities and one which is more environmentally sustainable than a factory-farm system. Family dairy farms are efficient and innovative. Family dairy farms can provide a plentiful supply of wholesome milk at a fair price. However, there is a provision stuck in this bill which no one has really discussed, and would harm family dairy farmers everywhere. The provision would establish a pilot program allowing for the expansion of forward contracting of milk. 
   Forward contracting reduces competition in the marketplace and results in lower prices to dairy producers. Forward contracting is not specific to the dairy industry. In fact, one can note the effect of forward contracting by the recent events occurring in the hog industry. Recently, the hog industry has witnessed a significant increase in the number of producers who decided to forward contract. Hog producers will contract with packers to guarantee  them a minimum price for their pigs. Contracting is not inherently bad and there are some good contracts. However, what is occurring is that these deals are made often in private and do not reflect the spot market. There is a strong argument that contracting is partly responsible for the depressed hog prices and the rapid increase in the consolidation of the hog industry. What is happening in the hog industry is also happening in dairy. 
   This provision would expand forward contracting of milk by allowing processors to pay producers less than the federal milk price for milk. Under current law, forward contracting is allowed, however, only if the buyer is willing to offer at least as much as the federal minimum price. In other words, this provision will remove an important safety net for our dairy producers. Expanded forward contracting can also reduce the price for producers who do not forward contract by reducing the competition for milk, thereby damaging the entire dairy market structure. This provision could also discriminate against our family farmers because the most likely scenario is that processors would offer forward contracts to the largest producers. Again, we would see the domino effect of losing family farmers. By giving a better deal to larger producers, our family farmers cannot compete and we would see more losses of family farmers. 
   Those who support forward contracting contend that forward contracting is a risk management tool; however, this argument doesn't hold water. In fact, National Farmers' Union and other groups contend that the proposal for forward contracting will actually make it more difficult to manage risk by forcing producers to guess whether the volatile dairy market will go up or down. It is logically deduced that in the absence of an adequate support price, the market will continue to be highly volatile. What can happen is that anytime producers price guess wrong, they lose money under this proposal. The truth is that our family dairy farmers cannot compete in such a volatile market place. We must set policy that keeps family dairy farms in business while ensuring that consumer and taxpayer costs are kept at a reasonable level. What we need to achieve here is a fair, sustainable and stable price system for all dairy farmers. 
   That has clearly not happened, and that's partly why Minnesota continues to lose dairy farmers at an appalling rate. Minnesota is losing dairy farms at the rate of three per day due to base price that are already low and unstable. Let me read to you the past couple of BFP prices for family dairy farmers. The BFP is the basic formula price. It is the monthly base price per hundredweight paid to dairy farmers for their milk. 
   In August the BFP was $15.79 per hundredweight. That was quite high and it is a good price. Farmers could be pleased with that price. In September the BFP rose a little higher to $16.26 per hundredweight. I haven't seen the analysis of why the BFP price rose so high. Back in May of 1999, the BFP was only $11.26. Some would argue that it was due to the drought in the East that prices rose so high for August and September. The milk price was high because cows in the eastern region were strained and produces less milk. Therefore, milk was in demand and thus the price rose. If this is the case, our farmers are getting a decent price for their milk only at the expense of farmers in other parts of the country who are suffering. 
   In October, the BFP took a stumbling tumble from the $16.26-September price to $11.49 per hundredweight. This is a dramatic drop price. The BFP for this month will not be released until December 3rd, but it is predicted to be even lower. Again, as I have stated before with such volatility in the market, it is no question why our farmers are having a difficult time to survive. And if dairy farmers are not struggling enough with the volatility of the market, Congress is now assisting and in some cases is making the price of my dairy farmers worse--and that is what has happened with the Northeast Dairy Compact. The Northeast Dairy Compact gives six states the right to join together to raise prices to help producers in the region. While it may help the Northeast, it is cutting into our markets. It is true that the compact provided a safety net this spring to certain farmers when dairy prices plunged. When the price of raw milk dropped by 37 percent, one Massachusetts farmer got a $2,100 check from the compact. Overall, that farmer said, aid from the compact totaled seven percent of his gross income during the first 12 months of its operation. Conversely, Midwest dairy farmers--who also confronted the sharp price decline--got no such price. 
   The Northeast Dairy Compact fixes fluid milk prices at artificially high prices for the benefit of dairy producers in just that region. This artificial price boost of a compact may benefit the producers covered by the compact, but it hurts all other dairy farmers. It is also no secret that the extension of the Northeast Compact encourages other regions such as the Southeast to form their own compact. This would be detrimental to the Upper Midwest. A recent report by University of Missouri dairy economist Ken Baily found that Minnesota's farm-level milk price would drop at least 21 cents per hundredweight if a Southeast dairy compact were allowed to be implemented alongside expanded Northeast dairy compact. This would translate into a $27.2 million annual reduction of Minnesota farm milk sales. The compacts in Baily's study would cover only 27 percent of U.S. milk production, yet would have a sizable negative impact. If more regions adopted compacts Minnesota prices would drop even further. 
   Many, such as I heard Senator LEAHY inquire, why doesn't the Upper Midwest form their own compact. Minnesota and Wisconsin farmers would not benefit from organizing their own compact. A compact's price boost applies for only fluid milk. The percentage of Upper Midwest milk going into fluid products is so low that any compact would do little for Minnesota's farmers' income. The negative impact of compacts would far outweigh any minimal boost to fluid prices here in Minnesota. Congress should not accept a policy that so clearly provides benefits to the producers of one region at the expense of consumers and producers elsewhere. Instead, there should be an effort to create a more uniform and rational national dairy policy--a policy without the regional fragmentation caused by compacts. 
   To put it simply, compacts erect trade barriers in our country. By fixing milk prices at artificially high levels, Compact proponents understand that their markets become vulnerable to market forces at work elsewhere in the nation. So in order to prevent milk from other regions entering those Compact markets at lower prices, a tariff-like mechanism is established to ensure that all milk entering the Compact area is priced at the level fixed by the price-fixing commission in the region. It is bad enough that the extension of the Northeast Dairy Compact is attached to this bill, but it is unacceptable for Congress to attempt to meddle with USDA's final plan by resurrecting an alternative similar to Option 1-A. 
   As you know, the referendum voted on by producers nationwide overwhelming passed this past summer. Given the prominence of Minnesota's dairy industry, it should be no surprise that I have pushed for reform of the existing milk pricing system. The Secretary's reforms are a step forward in a long overhaul of dairy policy toward a more unified and simplified pricing system that benefits all producers. We need to reduce and eliminate the regional inequities that exist within the federal order system. The current pricing system regulates the price of fluid milk based on the distance from Eau Claire, Wisconsin. This policy causes market distortions that disadvantage producers in the Upper Midwest. These reforms must move forward quickly, and be implemented as soon as possible by the Secretary. 
   These dairy provisions are putting at great risk dairy farmers not just in my State, but across the country. It is imperative that we establish a national and equitable dairy system for all. For this reason, and among numerous other inequities included as part of this mammoth omnibus package, I cannot vote for the bill. 
   Mr. President, milk prices per 100 weight were about $16. Now they are down to $11. They are going down further. We do not have any kind of national dairy policy that makes any sense.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to defer to Senator KOHL, and I will follow him and Senator FEINGOLD. I have literally 30 seconds. 
   I yield to Senator KOHL. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I also would like to thank all of my colleagues. I appreciate their comments. 
   I think the only thing I say that might be a little different is I remain pretty skeptical, to be honest. I am glad to hear what my colleagues have said. I think that is real progress. We are talking about working together. I think we are very committed--I say this to Senator KOHL, to Senator FEINGOLD, and to Senator GRAMS--to making sure that working together leads to a product. We have to change what we have right now because the compact blocking the milk marketing order reform has a disastrous impact on our dairy farms. 
   I come from a State where we lose about three dairy farms a day. I appreciate the comments that have been made. I know the Senators who have made them have made them in good faith. That gives me confidence. On the other hand, given what has happened, permit me to be skeptical until we see the product. The proof is in the pudding. 
   Finally, since my colleague from Texas mentioned the Freedom to Farm bill--what some of us call the ``freedom to fail'' bill --I think dairy is part, just part of it. We have to write a new farm bill. We have a failed farm policy. We have to change this. We are going to press hard to do so. 
   Thank you very much. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to support this conference report and I say, Mr. President, that I am very happy to have been an original cosponsor of the Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999. 
   People all across Minnesota who have contacted my office know the importance of the Work Incentives Improvement Act and how it will further expand the possibilities opened up by the Americans with Disabilities Act which was enacted in 1990. Thanks to the ADA, many people with disabilities in Minnesota and around the country are working, but others still cannot accept jobs because they would lose their health care coverage. This Act will allow them to fulfill their dreams for employment and to be productive citizens. 
   This legislation has enjoyed overwhelming bipartisan support--with 79 Senate cosponsors. It would make it easier for those receiving disability benefits through Social Security programs to go to work without losing their Medicare or Medicaid health benefits. The legislation also encourages the disabled to seek paid employment by gradually reducing their cash benefits as income increases, rather than cutting them off completely. 
   Let's look at the current situation for disabled individuals who seek employment and require health insurance coverage. For some of these people, employer-based coverage is unavailable because they are self-employed or because their disabilities prevent them from working full-time. For others, coverage is unaffordable because of co-pays and co-insurance for repeated, ongoing treatments. For those offered affordable employer insurance, these plans generally cover only primary and acute care, not the specialized medications, equipment, supplies and other long term care needs that individuals with disabilities unfortunately require. 
   Last year, in the Spring of 1998, the Minnesota Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities surveyed 1200 Minnesotans who have disabilities and found the vast majority were ready to go to work if their current health care benefits remained intact. 
   Here are two examples from Minnesota: 
   Let me tell my colleagues about Steve. Steve is a middle-aged adult with advanced Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy. He is married, has two grown children, and owns his own home in rural Minnesota. As the manifestations of his condition progressively worsen, Steve has struggled to remain self-sufficient as long as possible using all of his personal resources. Steve's desire to remain an independent contributing member of society is evident in his efforts to develop the skills that enable him to work from home in a computer-based business. Steve is on SSDI making him eligible for Medical Assistance that pays for his health care needs. He is growing weaker and cannot afford to lose his medical assistance eligibility. Steve has a fledgling publishing business; ghost-writing and copy-writing. He crafts sales ads and creates direct mail advertising packages. Steve uses the Internet to market his services. He uses his website as a forum for other authors to advertise their books. He sells space as one would a classified ad. Steve is becoming involved with e-bay auctioning focusing onbooks--first editions and autographed copies. Steve says the Work Incentives Improvement 
   Act is his only opportunity to become financially independent. ``If a person in my position is at risk for all of the medical expenses that one could incur, that is a big incentive not to try to get ahead. I still have my pride, my ego, the desire to rise above.'' 
   Another Minnesotan whose story I would like to tell is Jean. Jean is in her mid-forties and has had Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease since early childhood. Her muscles have wasted away from her elbows to her finger tips and from her thighs to her toes. She has trunk weakness and uses a power wheelchair for mobility. Jean works in an office as a clerk-typist using a pencil held between her two hands to strike the computer keys and a trackball to navigate her computer. Jean's career is limited by not being able to accept raises, declining wage rewards for the continuing education and skills she has gained, because if she accepted these well deserved raisers, she would exceed Supplemental Security Income's (SSI) earnings threshold of just $500/month and lose her eligibility for medical assistance. ``It just seems unfair that people with disabilities don't have the same opportunities to advance in their careers. Why can't we earn enough money to live in a house? To purchase a van with a lift? To travel?'' 
   These are but two of the thousands of disabled Americans who, with guaranteed continued health care coverage--coverage they already have--would be able to lead more productive lives, productive for themselves, for their families and for their communities. In my state there are not enough workers to meet the needs of Minnesota employers. and I know it is also the case in many communities around the country. According to the Disability Institute, in 7 years Minnesota will need 1 million new workers. The Work Incentives Improvement Act will help match the needs of Minnesota's disabled community with Minnesota employers. That is what I call a real win-win situation. 
   When President Bush signed the Americans with Disability Act in 1990, he noted that when you add together all the state, federal, local and private funds, it costs almost $200 billion annually to support people with disabilities--to keep them dependent. The ADA was the first giant step forward to allow Americans with disabilities to be independent. The Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999 which we have before us today is another giant step along the same path, and today I am happy to say that we will be taking that step. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to actually start out on a positive note by raising one question. 
   This Work Incentives Improvement Act is a very important piece of legislation for all the reasons my colleagues have explained. I will go through that in a moment. 
   I don't understand why there is in this piece of legislation a $1.7 billion subsidy for higher education lenders. I don't understand what that is doing in this piece of legislation. We are talking about whether or not people with disabilities are going to be able to work and maintain their health care coverage. That is what is so important about this legislation. It is incredibly important to the disabilities community in my State and across the country. 
   I thank Senators KENNEDY, JEFFORDS, ROTH, and MOYNIHAN. But I have to raise this question just for the RECORD. 
   What are we doing putting a $1.7 billion subsidy in here for higher education lenders? Students could use this money by way of expanding the Pell grant. Students could use the money by way of low interest loans. Students could use the money to make higher education more affordable. But why is this provision being linked to another piece of legislation? 
   I must say again that when we get back to how we conduct our business, I hope next time we will not put these kinds of provisions together. This is not the way to legislate. 
   I think it is a great piece of legislation. I am going to support it. But I certainly don't think we should have this $1.7 billion subsidy for the lenders as a part of this bill. 
   I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. I wonder if I can ask unanimous consent to follow the Senator from Kentucky? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in a while--though it is not clear when--it is my understanding that Congressman OBEY from Wisconsin--and I see Senator FEINGOLD from Wisconsin on the floor right now--is in the House with any number of different motions to adjourn before this conference report is acted upon. 
   We will eventually get this huge omnibus conference report. Those of us from the midwest dairy States are indignant about what has been done. It goes beyond dairy. Later on, believe me, we are going to have plenty of time to talk about dairy farmers. We are going to talk about what it means to dairy farmers, what it means to our States, and what it means to the country when, in a conference committee, provisions that extend the Northeast Dairy Compact and also block what Secretary Glickman was trying to do with the milk marketing order reform are put into the overall bill. 
   What I want to focus on is the process. To focus on the process, one might say, is a little bit too inside Washington politics, but I do not think so because actually, I say to my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans alike, this is, in a way, what makes people most distrustful of what we do. 
   By the way, I am not going to argue that everything we do should be looked upon with suspicion by citizens. I am not going to engage in an across-the-board indiscriminate bashing of the whole political process. But I will say, if people do not believe in the process, they do not believe in the product. 
   Again, what has happened, in all due respect to the negotiators, is by not getting the work done on these appropriations bills and by putting all of this into an omnibus bill, we have had a few people negotiating. If the majority party in a conference committee wants to roll the minority party, they can do so. That is what they have done in the House by basically putting in this provision that extends the Northeast Dairy Compact and blocks the milk marketing order reform. 
   We had a vote on this in the Senate. We voted against extending the dairy compact. It was a square and fair debate and vote. Then, in a conference committee, completely unrelated to the appropriations bills, completely unrelated to what the scope of the conference committee was supposed to be, these provisions were put back in the bill in the dark of night. House Majority Leader ARMEY announced they had done it, and Senate Majority Leader LOTT announced the provision was in. There was never debate and discussion. They tucked into the conference report this huge monstrosity of a bill that hardly any of us have had a chance to read yet, which will be coming over here sometime. 
   I come to the floor to say to Congressman OBEY in the House: I applaud your efforts. What we have is raw politics--just get this through. That is what they have done with this Northeast Dairy Compact. They could not do it on the floor of the Senate. They stuck it in a conference report. They did it in the dead of night. They did it outside any public scrutiny. And now they present it to us in a conference report as a fait accompli. They set up a continuing resolution that goes into next week. 
   They figure out ways of jamming people, and it is unclear as to what leverage we have left. But, as Congressman OBEY is doing in the House, I am sure those of us who are from Wisconsin and Minnesota in the Senate intend to speak out. We intend to be very clear about what has happened, and we will do all we can as Senators. We will go from there. 
   I say to my colleagues that almost as much as the final product, I came to the floor of the Senate to strongly dissent from the way it was done. 
   I understand the rules. I understand what it is all about when people have figured out a way to roll Senators. I think that is what the majority leader, the Senate majority leader, and House Majority Leader ARMEY have done. I think that is what the Republicans have done in this conference committee. There is no question about it. 
   But I want people in Minnesota to know that we will continue to speak out about this, even as we see less and less opportunities for our leverage. We will fight in whatever way we can. We will certainly not be silent about this. 
   When this bill comes over, I would think, I say to my colleague from Wisconsin, Senator FEINGOLD, we can probably expect a considerable amount of discussion about not only the impact on dairy farmers and what it is going to mean for a lot of people who are going to go under who are already struggling enough, but I think also, I say to Senator FEINGOLD, who has been such a reformer, the way it has been done, the whole process, which I think is profoundly antidemocratic, with a small ``d''--not up-or-down votes, late at night, tucked into a report; by whom, when, how, not at all clear, and then design rules in such a way you can just roll it through--we will certainly be speaking out loudly and clearly about it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my understanding is that Senator KOHL was seeking recognition. I ask unanimous consent that Senator KOHL be allowed to speak for 5 minutes after Senator KERRY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I come to the floor to speak with some mixed feelings because I have heard several of my colleagues, and I specifically want to talk about the remarks of Senator BYRD and Senator ROCKEFELLER for whom I have a tremendous amount of respect. I know when they speak about miners, they speak from their hearts, and they speak from their souls. 
   I haven't looked at the specific wording of the amendment. But I want to raise some questions, if this amendment comes to a vote. I will look at the amendment and then decide. 
   But I think I heard some of my colleagues trivialize this question. Just looking at it from another very important point of view, I can say that I have spent a considerable amount of time in eastern Kentucky. That is where my wife's family is from. I spent some time years ago with an organization called ``Save Our Cumberland Mountains'' in east Tennessee. 
   When my colleagues come to the floor and talk about this as saving some exotic species, they are not talking about what I have seen with strip mining. What I have seen with strip mining in east Tennessee and east Kentucky is a situation where, first of all, the coal mining companies came to the region and took an awful lot of the wealth, and then they left an awful lot of the 
   people poor. 
   But one of the things people had was their streams, rivers, and their creeks. They had the outdoors, and the land that they loved. 
   I want to say to my colleagues that when you take the tops off these mountains with the strip mining as opposed to deep mining, and you let the left-over rock and earth get dumped into the adjacent valleys and bury or pollute streams, it raises a big question. 
   Again, I say, in deference to my colleagues, that I know what they are saying. We will have a chance to analyze this and then decide how to vote. 
   But I do not believe this is a trivial question at all. I have seen communities ravaged by this strip mining. I have seen courageous people who have lived in the mountains their whole lives speak up. So I want to speak up by raising this question on the floor of the Senate. 
   I also want to say to my colleague, Senator BYRD--and others--who, as I said, from his heart cares about the miners, that when I hear some of my colleagues talk about the miners, I hope there will be equal concern for the miners in east Kentucky when they don't have the unions. Right now, they can't see 6 inches in front of them because of the coal dust level. I hope we will have the concern for the health and safety of the miners. When I hear speakers on the floor, I hope we will have the concern on raising wages; I hope we will have concern for civilized working conditions; and I hope we will have a concern for the right of miners and other people to be able to organize and bargain collectively. 
   When I hear about the President's trip to Hazard, KY, where is the concern for poverty? I hope we will also see the same kind of commitment to health care, to education, to affordable child care, to economic development, and all of the rest. 
   It is a little bit too much to hear some colleagues frame this debate in these terms given this broader context. 
   It is a difficult question. I said to Senator BYRD earlier I have not looked at the specific amendment yet. I will do that. But I don't want any Senator to come to the floor and act as if there isn't some question--again, the Senator can clear this up for me--as to whether or not, given section 404 of the Clean Water Act, we are or are not creating a loophole. That is a terribly important question for me to resolve before a final vote on the issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I object until I can read this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, could I ask the majority leader, following the motion to proceed by the majority leader, it says ``to be followed by a vote on a motion to proceed.'' Is this going to be read? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is our understanding. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, can we have order in the Chamber, please? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I hope other Senators will want to speak in opposition. I think there should be opposition to this amendment. I have tremendous respect for my colleagues who have offered this amendment. I will say a couple things especially in response to the Senator from Kentucky. 
   I am a Senator who cares a great deal about workers and about mine workers. I am a Senator who appreciates the sentiment behind this amendment. But the question is, What happens when the strip mining takes place, and what are the consequences for the people who live in these communities? 
   I can speak certainly from what I have seen in eastern Kentucky, and it is pretty awful when that leftover rock and earth gets dumped into the streams. Many of the people have the wealth taken away from them, but they still have the land, they still have the streams, they still have the water, and now we see that kind of devastation. 
   My concern is this amendment will create a loophole to the Clean Water Act. I know my colleague from West Virginia believes otherwise, but it is a very real concern. I point out to colleagues that it is my understanding the Federal district judge put a stay on his own decision while it was being appealed to the court of appeals. So it is not operative right now. 
   I do not know why we are taking this action tonight. It is a big mistake from an environmental point of view, and I do not accept, I say to my colleague from Kentucky, the tradeoff that he presents as to workers versus some protection for the environment and some concern about the strip mining. 
   I did not want to be the person to speak in opposition, but I do believe there is another perspective. I will vote no. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I have 1 minute to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I appreciate the words of my colleague. It is an honest difference of interpretation of the amendment. 
   The only thing I want to respond to, I do not want to be personal, but I would like to say to my colleague, I do not pretend to know West Virginia like you know West Virginia and Senator ROCKEFELLER does; that is not the position I am taking, but as to the bopping in and bopping out, I will say that I want my colleague to know I have spent quite a bit of time in eastern Kentucky. That is where my wife's family is from. Her grandparents were all coal miners. I have spent time in east Tennessee as well. I spent a lot of time with people. I have seen what the strip mining has done to those communities. I am just expressing my honest viewpoint. That is all I am trying to do, I say to the Senator. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to Senator DORGAN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Chair be kind enough to notify me when I have used up 10 minutes of my time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, before we get right into the debate, I wish to also mention another debate in agriculture and say to my colleagues from some of our Midwest dairy States that I share their indignation at the way in which the extension of the Northeast Dairy Compact and the blocking of the milk marketing order reform by the Secretary of Agriculture--kind of two hits on us--has been put into a conference report. We voted on this on the floor of the Senate. This was not passed by either House. Yet it was tucked into a conference report. 
   I think it is an outrageous process. I think people are sick and tired of these backroom deals. I intend to be a part of every single effort that is made by Senators KOHL, FEINGOLD, GRAMS, myself, others, to raise holy heck about this. 
   After having said that, let me respond to some of the comments on the floor. First of all, I thank my colleague, Senator DORGAN, for offering this amendment with me. As long as my colleague from Oregon represents that tradition of populism, this is Senator DORGAN. It is who he is. Frankly, I think it is all about democracy and all about the market. 
   Also, I ask unanimous consent that Senators JOHNSON and FEINGOLD be added as cosponsors to this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Oregon and others, that as much respect as I have for the Minnesota Star Tribune, I am not all that troubled that sometimes we disagree and that there is an editorial that is in opposition to this amendment because, frankly, this amendment comes from the countryside. This comes from the heartland. This comes from the heart of our farm and rural communities. That is where this amendment comes from. I say that to all Senators, Democrats and Republicans alike. 
   I also say to my colleague from Oregon, actually this is all about the market. This has nothing to do with Russia or whatever country he mentioned. Quite to the contrary, this is all about putting some free enterprise back into our economy. This is about putting free enterprise back into the free enterprise system. This is about the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act and Senator Estes Kefauver and a great tradition of antitrust action. That is what this is about. 
   This is about making sure we have competition. This is making sure that our producers--the one, if you will, free enterprise sector in this food industry--have a chance to survive. That is what this is about. This is as old fashioned and pro-American and a part of the history of our country as you can get, from Thomas Jefferson to Andrew Jackson, right up to now. 
   Let me be clear about that. This is a very modest amendment. What it says is that until we develop some kind of comprehensive solution to the problem of extreme concentration in our agricultural markets, and anticompetitive practices of the few large conglomerates that have muscled their way to the dinner table, and are driving our producers out, we ought to take a ``timeout'' on these mergers and acquisitions--not of small businesses but of large agribusinesses. 
   This timeout could last as long as 18 months but no longer. It could also be terminated well short of 18 months by passage of some legislation, which is what I hope we will be serious about, to deal with this problem of concentration. 
   This is a historic debate and a historic vote because, you know what, we are going to have to deal with the whole question of monopoly power and whether or not we need to have more competition and free enterprise in our free enterprise system in a lot of sectors of this economy. That is what Viacom buying up CBS is all about. That is what the proposed merger of Exxon and Mobil is all about. That is what the rapid consolidations and mergers in all these sectors of the economy, where you have a few firms that dominate, I think to the detriment of our consumers and our small businesses, is all about. 
   If we pass this timeout, we are still going to need to revisit this problem of concentration within the next 18 months. We have to do so and pass legislation. What we cannot do is pass this legislation today. So what we want to do is put a hold on these colossal agribusiness mergers that are occurring on an almost daily basis. What we are saying is, let's pass legislation that puts some competition back into the food industry, that gives our family farmers, our producers a chance. But until we do that, let's take a timeout so we can put a stop to some of these colossal agribusiness mergers that are taking place at a breathtaking pace every single day. 
   This amendment also is intended to create an incentive for the Congress to develop a more comprehensive solution on an expedited basis. 
   Last week, if my colleagues need any evidence, the Wall Street Journal reported that Novartis and Monsanto, two of the largest agribusiness giants, may be merging. The Journal accurately states:  
   ..... the industry landscape seems to be changing every day.  
   In fact, the ground is constantly shifting beneath our feet, and soon it is going to be too late to do anything about it. That is exactly why we need a timeout. These mergers build momentum for more mergers, and these large companies are all saying that we have no other choice, given what is going on right now, but to merge and get bigger and bigger and bigger. Just imagine what the effect of a merger between Monsanto and Novartis would mean. It would obviously put more pressure on more firms to join in on one of these emerging handful of food chain clusters that are poised to control our agricultural markets. 
   This timeout we are proposing today is intended to lessen those pressures and to arrest this trend before it is too late. That is what this is all about. This amendment is all about whether or not our producers are going to have a chance. This is an amendment that is all about whether or not rural communities are going to be able to make it. This amendment is all about whether or not farmers are going to be able to get a decent price. When you are at an auction and you are trying to sell something and you only have three buyers, you are not going to get much of a price. That is exactly what is happening in agriculture today. 
   This is all about competition. This is all about America. This is all about Jeffersonian tradition and whether or not Senators are on the side of family farmers or whether they are on the side of these large conglomerates. We have horizontal concentration taking place. Whether we are looking at the beef packers or at pork or grain or whether we are looking at every single sector, we have four companies that control 50, 60, 70 percent of the market. That is not competition. Economics 101: It is oligopoly, at best, when you have four firms that control over 50 percent of the market. 
   The scarier thing is the vertical integration. When one firm expands its control over various stages of food production, from the development of the animal or plant gene to production of fertilizer and chemical inputs, to actual production, to processing, to marketing and distribution to the supermarket shelf, is that the brave new world of agriculture we want to see? That is exactly the trend we are experiencing today. 
   I quote an April 1999 report by the Minnesota Land Stewardship Project. I think it is right on the mark:  
   Packers' practice of acquiring captive supplies through contracts and direct ownership is reducing the number of opportunities for small- and medium-sized farmers to sell their hogs;  
   As a matter of fact, our hog producers are facing extinction, and these packers are in hog heaven. We want to know, who is making the money? How can it be that these corporate agribusinesses are making record profits while our producers are going under? 
   The Land Stewardship Project goes on to say:  
   With fewer buyers and more captive supply, there is less competition for independent  farmers' hogs and insufficient market information regarding price; and lower prices result.  
   Leland Swensen, president of the National Farmers Union, recently testified:  
   The increasing level of market concentration, with the resulting lack of competition in the marketplace, is one of the top concerns of farmers and ranchers. At most farm and ranch meetings, market concentration ranks as either the first or second priority of issues of concern. Farmers and ranchers believe that lack of competition is a key factor in the low commodity prices they are receiving. So our corporate agribusinesses grow fat, and our farmers are facing lean times.  
   I wasn't born yesterday. I understand what has been going on since we introduced this amendment. I know the folks who have been making the calls. We are up against some of the largest agribusinesses, some of the largest multinational corporations, some of the largest conglomerates you could ever be up against. 
   Let us talk about this very practical and modest proposal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   First, the standard we use is the standard that now exists under the Clayton Act, which is whether or not a merger may be substantially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly. Second, we are talking about the largest mergers in which both parties have annual net revenues over $100 million. This is not small business--both parties with annual revenues over $100 million. 
   Third, some of my colleagues were concerned about the possibility of facing financial insolvency. We address the problem. In this amendment is language which makes it clear that the Attorney General would have the authority to waive this moratorium in extraordinary circumstances, such as financial insolvency or similar financial distress. We have another waiver authority which goes to the Secretary of Agriculture. 
   Some colleagues said, what about mergers and acquisitions that actually are procompetitive? What we are going to do is to say, under modification, that USDA could waive the moratorium for deals that don't increase concentration to levels that are determined to be detrimental to family farmers. This moratorium or timeout won't even take effect for 18 months because presumably we are going to act earlier. 
   We have to do something about this merger mania. We have to do something about getting some competition back into the food industry. We have to do something that is on the side of family farmers. This timeout, with all of the provisions we have which make it so reasonable--and we are still in negotiation with our colleague from Iowa, who I know cares fiercely about this--ought to lead to an amendment that should generate widespread support. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield 2 minutes to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that I have 5 minutes at the very end to summarize this because we may make some changes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. May I have 5 minutes at the end? Otherwise, my time will burn off. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would like that. I don't want to have all my time burned up. I would like to have 5 minutes at the end. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the unanimous consent I am asking for is whether or not, if the other side is not going to use the time, I could reserve for the end when we run out of time the final 4 minutes 59 seconds to summarize this because I am waiting for Senator GRASSLEY. We have been involved in negotiations. I would like to summarize where we are. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First of all, let me be clear again. I want to tell the Senator that there are two very important, if you will, safety valves. One has to do with the very point he just made. If, in fact, a business says, look, we will be insolvent if we don't do this acquisition or merger, then they will get a waiver to do that. I want to make that clear, as to what this is and is not. That might get you support. I think there are provisions in here that are important. 
   Second, this is just a timeout; that is all this is. This comes from some pretty solid empirical evidence about the wave of mergers. And, again, three or four firms dominate well over 50 percent of the market and its effect on producers. 
   Finally, I do believe that, again, if USDA uses this criterion, it can also be a second safety valve that says, look, in this particular case, this acquisition or merger would be procompetitive given the situation. That would be another way. 
   So we are trying to deal with the most extreme of circumstances. This is  eminently reasonable. It is a cooling off; it is a message from the Senate that we care about what is going on out there. We want to have more free enterprise built into the system. This is pro-free enterprise, pro-competition. We don't have the competition now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes, I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If the Senator will yield again, let me be clear about this on two issues. First of all, if it weren't for the wave of mergers and this breathtaking consolidation of power--and then we look at the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act and wonder what is going on here--we would not even be talking about a timeout. That is the only reason we are doing this. I don't think anybody can deny the reality of what happened. 
   Second, the USDA would only be involved if a company said: Listen, we would like to get a waiver from this timeout period. It is only if a company makes the request or a company says: 
   Look, we would like to get a waiver from this timeout period. We are big, but we need to be involved in this acquisition or merger and it will actually be procompetitive. We are just trying to give a company a place to go. 
   So, with all due respect, it is not the kind of Government involvement my colleague fears. There does come a point in time in the rich history of our country where public power is there. Where is Teddy Roosevelt when we need him today? That is all this is, a cooling-off period to give us incentive, I say to my colleague from Oregon, to write some laws and do something that will put the competition back in place, so our producers have a chance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send a modification to my amendment to the desk and ask unanimous consent that the amendment be modified. I will explain the two provisions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would appreciate it before we have this vote. My colleagues were with Senator LOTT when I was very involved in the unanimous consent agreement as to which amendments were going to come up and how we were going to deal with nonrelevant amendments. 
   Senator DASCHLE asked Senator LOTT. I was right out here on the floor. In fact, I had made the request that if, in fact, we weren't changing the meaning or the scope of our amendment, but we were going to make a correction, we would be able to do that. Senator LOTT said if this didn't change the meaning of the amendment, or the scope of it, then, of course, that would be all right. 
   This is not a different amendment. This is in violation, or I would never have agreed to this unanimous consent agreement. All we are doing is listening to colleagues who have said there should be $10 million to $100 million on both parties. We think that would make a big difference from the point of view of small businesses, and at least give businesses another place where they can go if they believe their merger or acquisition is not procompetitive. 
   Those are the two changes. I cannot believe that now I am being told I can't do this. This was a part of the unanimous consent agreement. I was on the floor. I will get the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD out of the exchange. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me try this again. My colleague can object to the amendment. But that is a different issue. That is a different issue. I now come to the floor with a modification. When we came up with this original unanimous consent agreement, the majority leader made it crystal clear in an exchange with the minority leader--I was out here on the floor--if we wanted to have a technical correction in our bill 
   and it was not changing the scope or meaning, that it would, of course, be all right. Now you are denying me my right to make that modification. Why are you afraid of a modification? I am just a little bit outraged by this. I was here. I was on the floor. I know what was discussed. I know what the majority leader said. 
   I also believe if my colleagues want to have an up-or-down vote, fine. But you ought to give me the right to make a modification to my amendment that I think would make this a stronger and a better amendment. 
   I want to send the amendment to the desk again. Did I send it? Do you already have it? 
   I appeal to the Senator to please not object to my unanimous consent request to modify my amendment with what I have sent to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to modify my amendment, which is exactly what we agreed to in terms of how we deal with these amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleagues are afraid to have a vote and an honest debate on what we are talking about, and this is a violation of the agreement that we made when we talked about how to proceed. 
   Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-26-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, parliamentary inquiry: I want to find out from the Chair whether or not I can amend, provide direction to my amendment without requiring unanimous consent; whether I have a right to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-27-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have how much time left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-28-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have said it all, along with Senator DORGAN, about the why of this amendment and how important it is for our producers, how important it is to take a timeout so we can have some competition, how important it is to farmers and rural communities. Given the ruling of the Chair, I want to be crystal clear as to what has now happened. 
   I wanted to come to the floor of the Senate--it was my understanding I would be able to do so, but I have been told I would not be able to do so--and improve upon this amendment in the spirit of compromise. 
   Some colleagues are concerned about this timeout and they said: Why don't we have companies with $100 million. And the other threshold for an acquisition merger would be $100 million as well. They would be more comfortable with that. I wanted to provide this direction to my amendment to improve upon it. I wanted to compromise. 
   I was also told by some colleagues they are a little worried that during this cooling off period, maybe some of the acquisitions and mergers would be procompetitive. I worked very hard to have some very specific language which would enable such a company to go to USDA and say: Listen, this would be procompetitive. And USDA, based upon clear criteria, would say: You are right. 
   I come to the floor of the Senate today as a Senator from the State of Minnesota to try to modify my amendment. It is very clear what the modification would be. Based upon discussions with other Senators, in the spirit of compromise, so we can at least move  this forward and provide a message to our producers that we care, so that some Senators who may now have to vote against this because of their concerns would be able to support it so we can actually adopt something that will make a difference, I am told I do not have the right to modify my amendment. 
   Also--this is my final point because I cannot help but be a little bit angry about this--the majority leader came to me last week when Senators wanted to leave. We were scheduled to have a debate, and we were scheduled to have a vote. The idea was, to enable people to leave, we would hold this over, and I said yes. It is not as if I have waited to the last minute. We could have had negotiations then. We have just come back to this. 
   I must say to my colleague from Oregon and others, I am skeptical about this. It is pretty rare that a Senator cannot come to the floor and modify his amendment. Whatever the procedural ruling is, it seems to me it is crystal clear what is going on. I wanted to modify it. I wanted to compromise. I wanted to make an amendment that would generate more support, maybe even adopt it, and I have been denied the opportunity to do so. That is very unfortunate. 
   It is about time my colleagues gave some serious thought to being on the side of some of the interests in our country that do not have all the money and are not so well connected and such big investors and do not have such power. When my colleagues start with that, think about the producers and the people who live in our rural communities because right now we are seeing merger mania. We are seeing a lack of competition. We need to go back, I guess, to Teddy Roosevelt politics. It is a shame I have been denied the right to provide direction to my amendment or a modification to my amendment which would have been a good compromise. 
   How much time do I have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-29-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, other than I do not have strong feelings about any of it, I will not take the last 25 seconds. I feel too strongly to say anything more in the last 25 seconds. It is rare that a Senator cannot modify his amendment. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I thank my colleague from Iowa. I ask unanimous consent that following the votes, we move to the Kohl amendment, but if there is not agreement to do so, we then move to my amendment No. 2752 which deals with a merger moratorium. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Iowa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If my colleague will yield for 1 second, I ask unanimous consent that following the Senator from Utah and the Senator from Vermont, I may then speak on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I understand my colleague from Michigan has wanted to propound a unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have listened to my colleagues discuss this amendment. I want to zero in on what is the poison pill provision of this amendment--no pun intended. 
   The cocaine provision in the Republican drug amendment to the bankruptcy bill would raise powder cocaine penalties to unacceptably high levels, forcing jail overcrowding without offering any concrete solutions to drug addiction. That is the fundamental problem. In short, as much affection as I have for my colleague from Michigan and others, I think this provision is a disaster. 
   The authors say they want to fix racial disparities in crack sentencing by establishing tougher sentences for low-end powder cocaine offenders. In practice, this is going to make the disparities worse. That is the problem. This provision capitalizes upon the common misperception that powder cocaine is principally a ``white drug.'' It seeks to neutralize complaints of racism in the heavy sentences meted out almost exclusively to African American defendants for crack cocaine offenses. In reality, this provision will only worsen the problem of gross overrepresentation of minorities in prison for drug offenses. To the existing flood of young minority males serving draconian sentences for nonviolent low-level crack offenses, it will simply do the same for minor powder cocaine offenses. 
   Only low-end cocaine defendants will have their sentences changed under the Republican proposal. The sentence for a participant in a 50-gram powder transaction will more than double from 27 months to 5 years. Further, the Sentencing Commission's mandate will require it to make comparable increases for lesser quantities. Yet the Commission has documented that as with crack, such low-level street dealers--and these are the ones who are going to be affected by this--of powder cocaine are ``primarily poor, minority youth, generally under the age of 18.'' And overall, minorities constitute over three-quarters of all current powder defendants. They also found that over half of the Federal powder defendants are couriers or mules or lookouts--categories with the lowest income and lowest culpability and the highest representation of minorities. This amendment doesn't go after the kingpins. This amendment, again, is going to have a disproportionate impact on minorities, on kids, on the young and on the poor. 
   I use this as an example. I am not trying to pick on the students. College  students at Yale or Harvard who suffer from substance abuse or sell cocaine out of their dorm rooms will not go to jail under this provision. I have no doubt about that. Instead, the vast majority will once again be low-income African American and Hispanic males. 
   I want to read from a statement before the Judiciary Committee--this is not my argument--from 27 former U.S. attorneys who now sit as judges on the Federal court:  
   Having regularly reviewed presentence reports in cases involving powder and crack cocaine, we can attest to the fact that there is generally no consistent, meaningful difference in the type of individuals involved. At the lower levels, the steerers, lookouts, and street-sellers are generally impoverished individuals with limited education whose involvement with crack rather than powder cocaine is more a result of demand than a conscious choice to sell one type of drug rather than another. Indeed, in some cases, a person who is selling crack one day is selling powder cocaine the next.  
   By raising powder cocaine penalties, the amendment reduces the gulf in sentencing between the two drugs, but it doesn't solve the underlying problem. The real problem is that crack penalties are way out of proportion to those of other drugs. You are basically trying to argue that two wrongs make a right, and they don't. Reducing the trigger quantity for a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence for powder cocaine makes the penalties for both forms of cocaine disproportionately severe compared to other drugs. The same U.S. attorneys say they ``disagree with those who suggest that the disparity in treatment of powder and crack cocaine should be remedied by altering penalties relating to powder cocaine.'' 
   I emphasize this in the former U.S. attorneys' quote:  
   The penalties for powder cocaine ..... are severe and should not be increased.  
   Mr. President, we need to stop and ask ourselves, what are we doing here? If the trigger amount for powder is lowered, almost 10,000 addicts and small-time drug users will be added to the prison population over the next 10 years. That is what we are doing with this amendment. The Bureau of Prisons will have to build six new prisons just to house these people. This will be at a cost to taxpayers of approximately $2 billion. In the next 20 years, the cost will escalate to over $5 billion, and in 30 years it will be $10.6 billion. 
   Haven't we learned yet that jails and prisons are not the sole answer? There are more than 1.5 million people incarcerated in State and Federal prisons and local jails around the country. Another 100,000 young people are confined in juvenile institutions. These numbers have tripled in the past two decades. On any given day, one out of every three African American men in their twenties is either in prison, in jail, on probation, or on parole. I remember reading in the paper that there are more African American men in their twenties--far more--in the State of California in prison than are in college. 
   We have one of the largest prison populations in the world. If more prisons were the sole solution to the problems of drugs and crime, then we should be among the least addicted, safest countries on Earth. 
   Being ``tough on drugs'' makes for a great stump speech, but we also ought to be smart, and we need to be smart. A landmark study of cocaine markets by the conservative Rand Corporation found that, dollar for dollar, providing treatment for cocaine users is 10 times more effective than drug interdiction schemes. A recent study by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, SAMHSA, has indicated that 48 percent of the need for drug treatment, not including alcohol abuse, is unmet 
   in the United States--48 percent of the need is unmet. Surely, if we can find an endless supply of funding for housing offenders and building new prisons, then we must be able to rectify this shortsighted lack of treatment. 
   Let me simply talk a moment about this disease of alcohol and drug addiction which costs our Nation $246 billion annually--almost $1,000 for every man, woman, and child. There is so much new evidence, so many studies, so much good science work, and we are so far behind the curve. Why aren't we looking at the evidence, the data, the research, and the work that is being done? This disease is treatable. Yet our Nation has an alcohol and drug treatment gap that is 50 percent nationally, 60 percent for women, and 80 percent for youth. 
   Are you ready for this? Since we are now going to throw yet even more of these kids--primarily Hispanic and African American--in jail and prison, access to youth drug treatment is particularly low, with only one in five adolescents able to access drug or alcohol treatment services. We don't provide the funding for the services or for the treatment, and now we have an amendment that basically will assure that even more of these kids will be locked up--without even dealing with the root of the problem. 
   I have a piece of legislation--and Congressman RAMSTAD from Minnesota has the same legislation on the House side--which says that, at the very minimum, we ought to stop this discrimination and say to the insurance companies that we ought to be treating this disease the same way we treat other physical illnesses because right now, in all too many of these policies, if you are struggling with addiction, you don't get any treatment. We are just saying we are not even mandating it. We are just saying, for gosh sakes, please stop the discrimination, deal with this brain disease, provide some coverage for treatment. 
   There are all these men and women in the recovery community who can testify about how, when they had access to treatment, they were able to rebuild their lives. They are now members of the recovery community; they work; they are successful; they contribute to their families, and they contribute to their communities. 
   What do we have here? We have an amendment that does nothing more than imprison more of these kids and doesn't do a darn thing about getting at the root of the problem. It does nothing about the lack of treatment for these kids. This is a huge mistake. 
   There is one other provision that is now part of this amendment, which is quite unbelievable, at least in my view. As a part of this amendment, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have included a provision that says if a child attends a title I school and becomes a victim of violence on school grounds, the district may use the Federal education funds, including IDEA, title I, and other money, to provide the child with a voucher to attend a private school or to provide transfer costs for the child to attend another public school. 
   Well, now, look, I don't know exactly when this provision was even put in this amendment. It wasn't part of the original amendment I had a chance to see earlier. But I am a little bit skeptical. I think what my colleagues have done is taken a reality--and, God knows, I wish this reality didn't exist in our country, which is too much violence in children's lives, including too much violence in their schools--and then used that as a reason to once again get authorization and funding for vouchers. 
   If for some of these children you were able to transfer money to private schools, what about the 90 percent of children in America who attend public schools, not to mention the fact that the amount of money these kids get to transfer to a private school wouldn't cover anywhere the cost of the private school? And the vast majority of these children are low income. What about the rest of our kids in our schools? 
   I say this by way of conclusion. I will be especially brief because I don't believe my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to hear this, and I don't even think they want to debate it. 
   Have you expanded funding for Safe and Drug-Free Schools? No. 
   Are you willing to support essential and sensible gun control, and drug treatment and drug prevention programs? No. 
   Were you willing--I have this amendment--to dramatically expand the number of counselors in our schools to provide help and support to kids? No. 
   Were you willing to support legislation that would deal with the reality of children who have witnessed violence in their homes? They have seen their mother beaten up over and over again, have trouble in school, sometimes themselves overly aggressive, sometimes themselves getting in trouble. That amendment passed the Senate. It was taken out in conference committee by the Republicans. Do you support that? No.  
   Are you willing to dramatically increase funding for afterschool programs? Law enforcement communities tell us it is so important in getting to a lot of kids who are at risk and who might commit some of this violence or might themselves be victims of this violence. Have you been willing? No. 
   Have you been willing to invest in rebuilding rotting schools? A lot of kids who live in tough neighborhoods who go to tough schools, when they walk into the schools and they see how decrepit they are, say to themselves, you know what, this country doesn't give a damn about us. They devalue themselves and they get into trouble. Have we made any investment here? No. 
   Have you been willing to increase the amount of funding we put into title I? In my State of Minnesota, in the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis, after you get to schools that are 60 percent low-income schools, then you go to schools that get 50 or 55 percent, and they don't get any of those funds because they have run out of money and because the title I money reaches, at best, about 30 percent of the kids in the country who need additional help. No. 
   I have to say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that I would love to debate somebody on this. It strikes me that this is disingenuous at best. 
   You talk about the violence kids experience in our schools. And then you say, therefore, we will now use this as an excuse to try to push through a voucher plan. Yet on 10 different things that you could support that would reduce the violence in children's lives in our public schools, you are not willing to invest one more cent. It is a weak argument you make. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my understanding is--let me see if I get this right--that we are in the process of trying to work out some kind of arrangement which may work better for colleagues in terms of their schedules, in which case soon we would start on this debate. We might very well finish up when we come back with a final vote. 
   If that is the case, I would agree to Senator ASHCROFT speaking now for 7 minutes while we are working out this agreement; with the understanding that after Senator ASHCROFT speaks for 7 minutes, then the pending business would be this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to have to object. I am willing to let some people speak, but I have been waiting for 3 days to get this amendment up and to get this debated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would object. The only thing I agreed to is Senator ASCHROFT being allowed to speak for 7 minutes; then I retain the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to colleagues that I will start out--though my guess is that very soon we will probably have an agreement that will enable us to go to an amendment that will be 10 minutes altogether and then a vote for those who need to leave town. I will start out. I want to say to colleagues, this isn't going to be a long debate, and we'll go back to it on Wednesday. Several colleagues have questions and I will start out that way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a unanimous consent request. I ask unanimous consent that I regain the floor following the agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to point out that if there is an objection, people can't leave. I am trying to accommodate people's schedules. I think it would be unfortunate if because of an objection Senators who want to leave to get back for Veterans Day are not able to leave tonight. I was trying to accommodate. 
   I hope the Senator from California will reconsider. Basically, the implication is that many people have many other amendments. This happens to be one of the three amendments that was part of the original agreement about how we would proceed. That is the only difference. Many of us have other amendments. 
   If the Senator wants to object, go ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First, I say to the Senator from Iowa, I hope we can work it out so Senators can leave. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Can we get the agreement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I still have the floor. I know we want to move forward. I am trying to move forward. I would like to yield 3 minutes to the Senator from Oregon. He has been waiting. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could I have order in the Chamber? 
   Mr. President, we are now dealing with amendment 2752. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, we will start this debate tonight, and we will conclude the debate on Wednesday. There will be an hour of debate on Wednesday as well. I want to give this a little bit of context. Mr. President, could I have order in the Chamber? Would Senators please take their conversation outside the Chamber? 
   I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I will start out with some narrative that was written by Jodi Niehoff, who works with me, and who is the daughter of dairy farmers, Jane and Loren Niehoff, in Minnesota from Melrose, MN, and close thereby. 
   Grove Township is 6 miles by 6 miles. It is a typical Midwest township. Fields of wheat, corn, some oats, and alfalfa span across the township line. In Grove Township, as in surrounding townships, the biggest topic of conversation is the economic farm crisis. 
   There are fewer and fewer folks attending to local board meetings. It is not because fewer folks care. It is because there are fewer farmers around. 
   In Grove Township, regardless of which gravel road one chooses to travel along, one will inevitably drive by an abandoned farm. Let me begin by illustrating how the farm crisis affects rural communities. I'll use Grove Township as an example. 
   Sometimes we have these debates, and we never talk about it in terms of people. 
   Reuban Schwieters--Reuban just recently quit farming. Reuban and his wife Paula and their young boys sold half of the farm. Reuban is now pouring cement at a local construction company. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will just keep speaking, and if you can't get order, I will get order. 
   Mr. President, I would say to colleagues that we could have had a 4-hour debate tonight. Colleagues wanted to go home. So I was accommodating because I think all of us want to get back for Veterans Day. We start this debate tonight about agriculture. It is taken me probably about 8 weeks to get this amendment on the floor. 
   I would appreciate it if colleagues would take their conversations in the back of the room outside. If we would have order in the Chamber, I am not going to speak until we do. 
   Mr. President, I thank the Chair. 
   I don't like reading about people's lives, many of whom have lost their farms, and have Senators out here on the floor and others speaking as if it makes no difference. 
   Reuban Schwieters--as I said, Reuban just recently quit farming. 
   He and his wife Paula and three young boys sold half their farm. Reuben is now pouring cement at a local construction company. Bear again in mind, these loss of farms is just in Grove Township in my State of Minnesota. 
   Steve and Lori Sand lived about 3 miles from Reuben and Paula. Steve and Reuben went to school together. Steve began farming next to his father's farm since at that time his father Wally was not ready to retire. Steve and Lori, their three daughters, and son could not hang on to the farm. The prices were too low to maintain a household of six and still run the family farm. They moved to Cottage Grove, MN, where Steve does construction and his wife Lori is now a computer technician. Incidentally, Steve's father Wally has retired, but none of his children or grandchildren has taken over the family farm. 
   These are Minnesotans willing to let their names be used so I can tell their story, which is the story of what is happening in agriculture. 
   Allen Nathe closed down his farm and is now doing small engine repairs. Gloria Schneider sold the farm to her son Glen. Glen and his wife farmed only a few years before they sold their family farm and he and his wife and small daughter moved to Minneapolis. 
   Dave Feldewerd sold his farm and is also driving a truck. Mike Ellering recently sold his farm and is working construction. Danny Frieler and his family quit farming. They still live on the farm, but the barns stand hollow. Marcy Wochnik recently retired and sold her farm to her son, and her son tried for a few years before he threw in the towel. Marcy moved into a house only a mile from a farm. No one has yet purchased the farm.  
   I am going through the story of farmers and farm families who have quit farming in Grove Township, one township in the State of Minnesota, a small story that tells a large story of what is happening to agriculture and the ``why'' of the amendment I introduced tonight with Senators DORGAN, DASCHLE, JOHNSON, LEAHY, and other Senators. 
   Alvin and Mary Hoppe also recently sold their farm and moved off the farm. Mary commutes to St. Cloud, and her husband has been doing mechanical jobs. Their son Jason is 12 years old, but he has always been by his father's side eager to learn farming. Despite Jason's enthusiasm and interest to farm, given the current conditions in agriculture, it is difficult for his parents to recommend this occupation. 
   This is only a corner of Grove Township in my State. If one crosses the water, one will be in Oak Township, where I could go through another list of farmers who have also had to quit farming. About a quarter of a mile from the Grove and Oak Township line lies the small town of New Munich. Since 1996, New Munich has also declined in residents. The effects of the farm crisis are apparent just walking along Main Street. Ostendorf Grocery closed. Marvin, who is known as Bud, and his wife Rosie have moved on. Rosie commutes to St. Cloud and sells retail clothes, and Bud works at a factory. Ostendorf Grocery was a practical general store. After Sunday mass, folks from the congregation would make quick stops for any last-minute items or simply visit with Rosie and Bud. During the week, farmers often would run into town to pick up a needed ingredient or item at the store. As in most towns, Ostendorf Grocery also served as the news and information center. Rosie always knew of the current events in the area, and folks enjoyed spending a few minutes to talk to her and Bud. Gone. 
   Since 1996, the elementary school closed. The school closing affected the local businesses. The school also has been used for community events. Schoolchildren, particularly farm kids, now face much longer bus rides to school. 
   Thielen Meats will close by the end of this year. Thielen Meats was a little mom-and-pop meat shop located across from the J.C. Park. Many farmers would bring a hog or a cow to be butchered 
   by their family. The larger shipments of livestock delivered to Thielen Meats were sold directly to residents in the town or in the surrounding area. 
   Kenny and Rita Revermann may also be closing the True Value Hardware store. After the school closing, the grocery store closing, and the recent news of the meat shop closing, the trips made by farmers to New Munich will grow fewer and fewer. 
   I have letters from farmers from Minnesota, Kentucky, Iowa, Kansas, Montana, and Missouri. Over and over again, if I had to summarize, these farmers say: We have record low prices, we have record low income, we are not going to be able to make it, it doesn't matter whether we work 19 hours a day, it doesn't matter how good a manager we are, there are economic forces that are destroying our lives. 
   So far, Senators have not helped. So far, we have acted as if this crisis didn't exist. This amendment tonight, which calls for a moratorium on all of these mergers and acquisitions of the huge conglomerates makes it hard for our family farmers and producers to have any leverage when they are only dealing with three buyers. If you are at an auction and you have three buyers for a product, what kind of price do you get? 
   This is just the first amendment. The first vote next week will be the beginning of a major floor fight over and over again until we change farm policy in the country. It is not just a question of people losing their farms, it is a question of our rural communities. When people lose their farms, it is more than just a family. We are seeing a rising incidence of divorce. We are seeing all kinds of tensions within families. We have too many suicide lines that are being used now. We have too much depression. We have too many farmers without any life insurance, too many farmers without any health insurance, too many farmers without any health and dental care, too many farmers with too little self-esteem. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am happy to yield to the majority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, tonight I speak, Wednesday I speak, and Wednesday we debate a crisis that is  ravaging rural America. I started out speaking about this crisis in personal terms, in human terms. On present course, the conservative estimate is we will lose 7,000 farmers this next year, but it could be more in Minnesota. On present course, over the next couple of years we are going to lose a whole generation of producers, if we do not change our course of policy. 
   I do not believe family farmers in my State of Minnesota, or family farmers in America, will be able to continue to farm or will their children be able to farm, unless we change the structure of agriculture. Bob Bergland, who was Secretary of Agriculture in the late 1970s, commissioned a report called ``The Structure of Agriculture.'' He now lives in northwest Minnesota. It was prophetic. 
   In the past decade and a half, we have seen an explosion of mergers and acquisitions and anticompetitive practices that have raised concentration in agriculture to record levels. Everywhere family farmers look, whether it is who they buy from or who they sell to, it is but a few firms that dominate the market. 
   The top four pork producers have increased their market share from 36 percent to 57 percent. The top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 percent to 80 percent. The top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 percent to 62 percent. The market share of the top four soybean crushers has jumped from 54 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four turkey processors now control 42 percent of production. Mr. President, 49 percent of all chicken broilers are now slaughtered by the four largest firms. The top four firms now control 67 percent of ethanol production. The top four sheep, poultry, wet corn, and dry corn processors now control 73 percent, 55 percent, 74 percent and 57 percent of the market, respectively. The four largest grain buyers control nearly 40 percent of elevator operators. 
   The effect of this concentration has basically been to squeeze our producers out. Our family farmers no longer have the leverage or the power in the marketplace to get a decent price. This amendment is a cry from the countryside. Everywhere I go in Minnesota and other States, farmers say: We cannot get a decent price because of this concentration of power, because of this monopoly power. We are not able to survive. When we look at the packers and we look at the grain companies and we look at the exporters and we look at the processors, they are making good profits, sometimes record profits, but we cannot get a decent price. 
   Farmers say to me: Where is the competition in the food industry? This amendment is an effort to put some competition back into the food industry. We are talking about an 18-month moratorium. 
   We are saying what we need to do is take some time out. Something is not working. We passed the Sherman Act. We passed the Clayton Act. Estes Kefauver was a great Senator who talked about antitrust action. But we have had this wave of mergers and acquisitions that have led to precious little competition. Again, these conglomerates have exercised their power over our producers and our producers cannot get a decent price. 
   This amendment is not the be-all or the end-all, but I say to my colleagues, if you believe in competition and if you believe family farmers ought to have a chance in the marketplace, then the very least we can do is pass an amendment that says when it comes to these large agribusinesses, these large conglomerates with $100 million and over revenue buying up a company with at least $10 million, we ought to say we are going to have a moratorium on this. 
   For 18 months, we set up a review commission and then we come up with recommendations and we pass some legislation that gives our producers a fair chance in the marketplace. If we pass that 
   legislation in 2 months or 3 months, then this moratorium is no longer operative. 
   Built into this amendment I introduced with Senator DORGAN and other colleagues is the opportunity, if you will, the waiver that any business can file with the Justice Department, where a business can say: We have to merge or we have to buy because we are facing financial insolvency. We allow for that. But we have to pass this kind of amendment now because over and over again, every single day, we are seeing these acquisitions and mergers; more and more concentrated power, more and more concentrated power which is harmful to our producers and harmful to our consumers and harmful to America. 
   On present course, we are going to see a few large conglomerates that are going to control every phase of the food industry from the seed to the supermarket or grocery shelf. We are going to have a few landowners. Somebody is going to own the land and somebody is going to own the animals, but it is going to be just a few conglomerates. 
   That is dangerous for our country. Thomas Jefferson told us it was dangerous; Andrew Jackson told us it was dangerous; Abraham Lincoln told us it was dangerous; Teddy Roosevelt, later on, told us it was dangerous. Why are we not, in the Senate and House of Representatives, willing to pass some legislation which will promote competition, which will protect consumers, and which will give our farmers and our producers who are going under some leverage in the marketplace? This legislation is also important to the environment, to our rural communities, and to democracy. 
   Just yesterday the Wall Street Journal reported that Novartis and Monsanto, two of the biggest agribusiness giants, may be merging. The Wall Street Journal accurately states:  
   The industry landscape seems to be changing every day.  
   In fact, the ground is constantly shifting beneath our feet and it soon may be too late to do anything about it. That is why we need a time out. That is exactly what this amendment calls for. 
   Too many corporate agribusinesses are growing fat and too many farmers are facing extinction and very lean times. Clearly, we cannot count on the current antitrust statutes and antitrust authorities to address this rapid consolidation. We are going to have to do better. We are going to have to change our laws to enable someone like Joel Klein, who is so skillful and so gifted, to be representing family farmers. Whether or not our antitrust agencies have the authority, we need to move forward. We have to develop a new farm policy and we know it is going to take some time. But we do not have much time left. 
   The question for Senators is, Whose side are we on? Whose side are we on? Are we on the side of the packers and the grain companies, or are we on the side of family farmers? I mean this. I mean this very sincerely. I know, because I have heard from other Senators, that you have a lot of these big companies and they are sending in faxes and letters and they are lobbying hard. 
   But aren't we going to be for the producers? Aren't we going to be for the family farmers in our States? For Senators who are not from the farm States, who do you want to control agriculture? Isn't food a precious item? Should we not give these producers a fair shot? Wouldn't it be better for the environment to have family farmers? Wouldn't it be better for our rural communities? Wouldn't it enable us to continue to count on being able to purchase food at a reasonable price? Why in the world would we want to move to a corporatized, industrialized agriculture, where a few conglomerates control the whole food industry? 
   That is not competition. That is not Adam Smith's invisible hand. That is not the United States of America. I offer this amendment tonight with my colleagues. We will have the debate again next week, and then we will have the vote because we need to take some action. 
   We have to act now, otherwise there are going to be more mergers and it is going to be too late, and we are going to lose, as I said earlier, a whole generation of family farms. 
   I have seen some of these faxes and letters that have come in. I do not even have this in writing before me, but I can almost remember it. Some of them say: Oh, my gosh, this is a threat to co-ops. 
   Co-ops are not covered. 
   Some of these letters say: But if you want to sell your farm, then you can't sell your farm. 
   This does not apply to farms, it applies to these agribusinesses.  
   Then some say: This is going to stop all mergers and acquisitions. 
   That is not true either. We set up a test. There is a Hart-Scott-Rodino test right now where, if you have a big company, the Justice Department has to take a look at you to see whether or not you are in violation of antitrust laws. We are applying this to the large conglomerates and large agribusinesses. 
   Then there is the argument, if a company is going under this, this would prohibit them from selling or buying. That is not true either. There is a waiver with the Justice Department for companies faced with financial insolvency. 
   The question is whether or not the Senate is willing to take some action right now that will make a difference. I cannot think, I say to every single colleague, of any vote that we will cast when it comes to family farms and agriculture that is more telling in terms of what the Senate is about. 
   We have a few conglomerates. My case is compelling. They control well over 50 percent of the market. When farmers look to from whom they buy and to whom they sell, it is monopoly or oligopoly at best. They cannot get a decent price. 
   This amendment to the bankruptcy bill--by the way, on present course, more and more farmers will be faced with bankruptcy--let us have at least a moratorium on these mergers of these large conglomerates. Let's at least step back for 18 months, set up a commission, study this, and come up with legislation that will provide some protection for family farmers so they can get a decent price in the marketplace. If we pass that legislation in January or February, then this moratorium is no longer operative. 
   I come from a remarkable State. I want to quote a remarkable Minnesotan, Ignatius Donnelly. I want to quote from a speech he gave at the People's Party Convention in 1892. It reads as if it could have been written yesterday. He was an implacable foe of monopoly power. Donnelly in his speech affirmed that the interests of rural and urban labor are the same. He called for a return to America's egalitarian principles. He said:  
   We seek to restore the Government of the Republic to the hands of the plain people with whom it originated.  
   We should do no less. If we want to sustain a vibrant rural economy and a thriving democracy, we need urgently to reform our farm and antitrust laws, and we have to act now. 
   Time is not neutral. Time rushes on, and if we are not willing to take this action next week, time will leave many farmers behind. Now is the time to act. 
   Next week, I will read from letters of support from any number of different farm organizations, and I will start out with the Farmers Union, which has been so helpful in this whole effort. I especially thank Tom Buis for all of his policy work. 
   This may be the final vote of this session this year. This vote will be very telling for Senators who value a family farm structure of agriculture, for Senators who have seen the anguish of farmers in our rural communities, and for Senators who have seen in personal terms what record low farm prices and record low farm income means. It is important to come to the floor and fight for people. 
   Tonight is the first speech. Wednesday we come back with 1 hour more of debate. Between now and Wednesday, I am going to do everything I can as a Senator to make sure a lot of grassroots people in our farm States and in other States contact Senators because this is a tough fight. A lot of these large companies and a lot of their associations that represent these large companies--and I will read the names of the different organizations that are opposed to this legislation--pour in the faxes and pour in the letters. By the way, I say to my colleagues, a good part of what they are saying is not accurate. 
   I understand there are certain interests who give a lot of money and are heavy hitters, who are well connected and who are the players and investors, maybe too much so in both parties. I understand that a call for antitrust action or at least to call for a moratorium on these mergers and acquisitions of these large companies goes directly at that power. But the truth is--and I conclude on this note--this is but a glimpse of what is to come. 
   In some ways, our country today reminds me a little bit of the gilded age of the 1890s, moving into the next century. We moved into the 20th century. As we went through the 1890s, we had a tremendous consolidation of power which gave rise to the populist movement, gave rise to progressives, gave rise to Teddy Roosevelt, the Sherman Act in 1890, the Clayton Act in the teens, and then the Stockyard Act of 1921 or 1922. This feels the same way. 
   We have CBS being bought by Viacom. We have banks merging, a few banks, a few large insurance companies, a few airlines--concentration of power in telecommunications, concentration of power in agriculture--the list goes on and on. 
   I am a Senator from a farm State. I am a Senator from an agricultural State. I am a Senator from the Midwest. I am a Senator from the State of Minnesota, and when I look at the need to do something about this monopoly power and I look at the need to do something that will give our producers, our family farmers a fair shake, I cannot think of any more important action we can take than to at least have this temporary moratorium on these mergers. 
   Mr. President, I ask how much time I have left this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield the rest of the time I have this evening to Senator HARKIN. I was going to suggest the absence of a quorum, but if my colleague from Oregon is going to speak, I will not do so. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a quick question? I have to leave to try to get back to Minnesota to mark Veterans Day, but I want to ask my colleague, is he talking about a cooperative with which he was involved? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I see. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today I am submitting a concurrent resolution expressing condemnation of the use of children as soldiers and the belief that the United States should support and, where possible, lead efforts to establish and enforce international standards designed to end this abuse of human rights. 
   In 1999, an estimated 300,000 individuals under the age of 18, some as young as age 5, were serving as soldiers in dozens of armed conflicts around the world, some with armed insurgencies, and some in regular armies. 
   Over the past five years, children were combatants in at least 33 countries around the world: in Africa, in the Americas, in Europe, the Middle East and Persian Gulf, and in Asia. 
   Throughout the world, children are exploited by adults for cruel purposes. These children have no voice. Some children are kidnaped and forced to become combatants. In the conflict in Sierra Leone, rebel armies willfully conscripted children into their ranks after forcing them to kill their family members and neighbors. 
   Once conscripted, many children are subject to brutal induction ceremonies. The impact of the regular use of physical and emotional abuse involving degradation and humiliation of younger recruits to ``indoctrinate'' discipline, and to induce fear of superiors usually results in low self-esteem, guilt feelings and violent solutions to problems. 
   In addition, children are treated like their adult counterparts. This can have severe physical effects. Poor and inadequate food and medical care have more serious implications for children, whose bodies are still growing and may be weakened by the exertions of military life. Children who cannot ``keep up'' are routinely killed by their leaders so that they cannot reveal any secrets. 
   Child soldiers are sometimes drugged so that they will fight even more fiercely. They may be used as human shields, to protect the more valuable, trained adult soldiers. 
   Some children may appear to become combatants of their own accord. These are children--children without the capacity to judge what is in their own best interest. Children who are subject to subtle manipulations by family and community members may succumb to pressures that lead them to participate in hostilities. 
   Some children become so enraged by the violence against their families and communities they become combatants to seek revenge. These ``volunteers'' are children who have witnessed extremes of physical violence, including death squad killings, disappearances, torture, destruction of home or property and massacres. Young children seldom appreciate 
   the dangers which they face. Alone, orphaned, frightened, bored, and frustrated, they will often finally choose to fight. 
   When a conflict has ended, child soldiers often do not receive any special treatment for their reintegration into civil society. Child soldiers have different needs than adult soldiers and require special services, such as education, training, and social and psychological rehabilitation. 
   Although child soldiers are subjected to unspeakable horrors, the international community has been slow in outlawing the use of children under 18 in armed conflicts. Today, international law regarding child soldiers is governed primarily by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention states that children under 15 cannot be recruited, conscripted, or made to participate in armed conflict. Every country in the United Nations, except the United States and Somalia has ratified the Convention. 
   Currently, a number of governments are working in Geneva to establish an Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child that would raise the minimum age for recruitment and participation in conflict in 18. The  working group has met over the past five years, but so far has been unable to reach consensus as to the wording and terms of the protocol. This delay is in part due to the United States, which does not want to give up its practice of recruiting youths under 18 for military service. 
   Although in the United States conscription is limited to those 18 and over, the United States military has a long standing practice of recruiting youths under the age of 18 and allowing them to be designated to fill combat positions. According to the U.S. Defense Department, children under the age of 18 make up less than one-half of one percent of active U.S. troops, about 7,000 individuals. I urge the Defense Department to examine its policy of recruiting children under the age of 18. Further, I urge the Defense Department to reassign those recruits under 18 to non-combat positions and adopt a clear policy barring those under 18 from participating in armed conflict. These steps would bring the United States closer to the emerging international consensus regarding the minimum age for military service. 
   Further, to move forward, the United States government must drop its objection to an international agreement establishing 18 as the minimum age for recruitment or participation in armed conflict. Since the United States is not even a party to the parent treaty, our opposition is inappropriate. The United States should not object to other countries moving forward in protecting their children even if we choose not to follow suit. 
   Mr. President, I speak today for these children who have grown up surrounded by violence and can only see this as a permanent way of life; for the children who are the victims of unfathomable terror and violence; and, for the children who are forced to perpetrate equal atrocities upon others. 
   I speak for the children who have no other voice to speak for them, and no voice to speak 
   for themselves. I submit this resolution so that the United States Congress can speak for these children. 
   I ask the United States Senate, as we look to the new millennium, to begin the process whereby we eliminate the use of children as soldiers. I ask the Senate to give voice to these children and to future generations of children through passage of this concurrent resolution. 
   The resolution simply provides that (1) the Congress joins the international community in condemning the use of children as soldiers; and (2) it is the sense of the Congress that (A) the United States should not oppose current efforts to negotiate an optional international agreement to raise the international minimum age for military service to the age of 18; (B) The Secretary of State should address positively and expediently this issue in the next session of the United Nations working group relating to child soldiers before this process is abandoned by the international community; and (C) the President and the Congress should work together to enact a law that establishes a fund for the rehabilitation and reintegration into society of child soldiers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I know we are going to start on the minimum wage amendment. May I have 1 minute to call up two amendments and then lay them aside? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I call up amendments Nos. 2537 and 2538. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I think I will speak for 10 minutes. But I think it will be less because I want the Senator to have a chance to respond to the Republican arguments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, first of all, let me say in a very personal way that when I was teaching and hoping to become a Senator, this is what I imagined it would be. I could come to the floor of the Senate and support an amendment introduced by Senator KENNEDY, that I would be lucky enough to have Dale Bumpers' desk and be able to sit next to Senator KENNEDY and come out here and fight for what I think is just elementary economic justice. I am very proud to rise to speak in behalf of this amendment. 
   On behalf of 176,000 Minnesotans who would be helped by this, much less the workers and their children--there would be many more citizens--I thank him. On behalf of another 11 million-plus workers in the country who would benefit from this $1 raise over 2 years, I thank him. 
   I say to all of my colleagues--Democrats but especially Republicans on the other side of the aisle--wherever I have traveled in our country--I start with my State of Minnesota--no matter where it is in Minnesota, in the city, or in rural areas, or in the suburbs, or whether it is the Deep South, whether it is L.A., East L.A. or Watts, or whether it is, inner-city Baltimore, or whether it is rural Minnesota--the one thing that people come up and say over and over again more than anything else is: We want to be able to have a job at a decent wage so we can support our families, so our children can have the care we know they need and deserve. 
   When I went to visit the part of the country where my wife Sheila and her family come from, Appalachia, Harlan County, it was the same thing. That is what people want to be able to have --a living-wage job, to be able to earn enough of an income so they can support their children, so they can do right by their children. That is what this amendment is all about. To talk about raising the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $6.15 an hour over 2 years so we don't lose what we gained in 1997 is a matter of elementary justice. 
   I heard Senator KENNEDY say this. I guess I need to emphasize this one or two times myself. I don't know how Senators or Representatives can vote for a $4,600 increase for ourselves when we are already making $130,000-plus a year and say we need this because we have children who are in college and because we need to make sure we have enough money to cover expenses and then turn around and vote against a $1 increase over 2 years from $5.15 an hour to $6.15 an hour. 
   Our economy is booming. In many ways we are doing well. But the fact is that I still think, using Michael Harrington's term--the Senator from Massachusetts will remember that book--we still have ``two America's.'' We have one America with greater access for all the things that make life richer in possibilities and we have another America that still struggles to make ends meet. Rising tides lift all boats. But in some ways, we haven't been growing together. We have been growing apart. 
   A minimum-wage worker now makes $5.15 an hour. The average CEO in our country makes $5,100 an hour.  
   Let me say to every Senator that this is matter of elementary justice. This is, as Senator KENNEDY said, a family value issue. It makes a huge difference, if you are able to make an additional $3,000-plus a year because of this increase in the minimum wage. That means you will be able to pay your utility bills, and you do not have to worry about being shut 
   off. It means your children will be warm as opposed to cold in a cold winter in Minnesota or in Maine, Madam President. It means you will be able to buy clothing for your children. It means you can afford your rent. 
   I hope and I pray it will mean we will not have so many women and so many children in our homeless shelters with 40 percent of these families having the head of the household working full time--people who work 52 weeks a year, 40 hours a week, and they are still poor in America because they don't make enough of a wage to support themselves and their families. 
   This is a family value issue. I don't know of any issue before the Senate and I don't know of any debate that we have had in the Senate that speaks more loudly and clearly to family values. 
   Colleagues, Republicans included, vote for this Kennedy amendment if you want to support your children. Vote for this Kennedy amendment if you want to support families. Vote for this Kennedy amendment if you want to support hard-working people who shouldn't be poor in America. Vote for this amendment if you want to support women. Too many women are the ones who are working full time and still don't make a living wage. This is a matter of justice. There is a matter of family values. This is a matter of doing the right thing. I hope we will have a majority vote for this amendment. 
   Finally, I will admit it. I will make a blatant political point. 
   I don't know how in the world anybody in this Chamber can vote a $4,600 salary increase for himself or herself saying we have to have this to make ends meet--and that is from the $130,000 salary at the beginning--and say no, no; we can't vote for people to have the chance to make enough of a wage so they can do a little better for themselves and, more importantly, a little better for their children. 
   Mr. President, $5.15 an hour to $6.15 an hour, a $1 increase, 50 cents a year over 2 years ought to pass with 100 votes. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I thank the Senator for his question. I wish I had emphasized that more, I say to the Senator. I can think of so many poignant conversations with people in which they were saying: Given the wages we make, every last hour we can work, we work. We have no other choice because that is the only way we can put food on the table. However, it means we have very little time to spend with our children. It is not what we want. It is not the way we want it to be. 
   I think this is so important for families. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am listening to this for the first time. This has not been a part of this debate. There are 73 million Americans right now who are entitled to overtime pay. Is the Senator saying part of the Republican amendment effectively repeals the overtime pay provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, which act has been in effect for 60 years? This is a cornerstone of fairness for working families in this country. Is that what the Senator is saying? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991108</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, one final question for the Senator. If companies are going to now be able to make the payment in bonuses and do an end run, basically, around the Fair Labor Standards Act, which is so important to 73 million Americans who right now are entitled to that overtime pay, then am I not correct that what the Republicans are proposing is not a step forward, it is a great leap backward; that this overturns 60 years of sweat and tears of workers' commitment to getting a fair pay for fair work, including overtime work? 
   They give a minimum wage increase with one hand and then they basically repeal part of the Fair Labor Standards Act with the other hand. People need to understand this, I say to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I join the Senator from Idaho in welcoming Senator CHAFEE to the Senate. His father was a very special Senator, and I don't think any of us will ever forget him. I hope that we will always honor his memory. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, before I start, since my remarks will be critical and hard hitting, and, I believe, will marshal considerable evidence for my point of view about this financial modernization act--and I rise to speak in strong opposition to S. 900--I congratulate Senator GRAMM for his political skill. I do not mean this in a cynical way. Cynicism is not my style; it is not the way I approach public service. He has been very skillful in his work, and as a Senator, I pay my respects to his considerable ability. 
   I rise in strong opposition to S. 900, the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999. S. 900 would aggravate a trend towards economic concentration that endangers not only our economy, but also our democracy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If my colleague will yield for a question, I don't intend to take the floor. 
   After the Conrad amendment is disposed of, is it the intention of the chairman to have votes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I need to go to a markup. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, am I correct, then, the understanding is before a final vote on this amendment, Senator GRASSLEY will be speaking and right now I will go forward with my amendment? Is that correct? 
   Mr. President, before I send this amendment to the desk, I want to emphasize one issue that this amendment does not speak to directly but which is very much on my mind. There is an (A) and a (B) part to this issue. 
   The (A) part is the economic convulsion in agriculture that has taken place all across our land, and certainly in our State of Minnesota. I also hasten to add there is no question in my mind that if we do not change the course of policy, we are going to lose a whole generation of producers. 
   The (B) part of what I want to say before going forward with this amendment is that I have, for at least the last 6 weeks, if not longer, been involved in what I would almost have to describe as a ferocious fight to have  the opportunity to bring an amendment to the floor that speaks to at least part of what is going on with this crisis in agriculture. No one amendment is the be-all or end-all. But one amendment would deal with all the mergers that are taking place and the ways in which these conglomerates are driving out family farmers across the land, the whole problem of concentration of power in the food industry, in agriculture. 
   Other colleagues from agricultural States such as Minnesota have other ideas, but the point is that we want an opportunity to bring an amendment to the floor that speaks to what is going on in agriculture. I thought we would have the opportunity to do that on this trade bill. We have been clotured out. Last week, we were successful in blocking cloture. Now we have been clotured out, with the understanding this will happen on the bankruptcy bill. 
   I want to express my skepticism on the floor of the Senate today as to whether or not that bankruptcy bill will be brought to the floor and whether or not we will have that opportunity. I want to express some indignation in advance if, in fact, we end up closing out this part of our session and going home without having had any debate, further debate about agriculture, and any effort whatsoever to alleviate the pain and misery in the countryside. I think it should be a top priority for us. 
   Over the next several days, whatever period we are dealing with, I am going to continue to fight to get this amendment out there. My understanding is we have an agreement that there will be an amendment on agriculture that will be part of the debate we will have when the bankruptcy bill comes to the floor, along with minimum wage, along with East Timor. That is the commitment that has been made. I certainly hope we will see that commitment carried out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am sorry, the amendment has been filed. I do not need to send it to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Since I did not know it had been filed, I will speak on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 2487 is the number. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I apologize. I did not know the amendment had been filed. 
   When I talk about labor rights, my colleague from New York is very familiar with the ILO. This is his fine work. What we are talking about is the right of association, the right to organize and bargain collectively, the prohibition on the use of any form of coerced or compulsory labor, some kind of international minimum wage for the employment of children age 15, and acceptable working conditions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment would provide for mutually beneficial trade between the United States and Caribbean countries by actually rewarding countries that comply with internationally recognized core labor rights with increased access to U.S. markets for certain textile goods. 
   That is what this should be about. We ought to reward countries that are willing to comply with internationally recognized core labor rights with increased access to the U.S. market. 
   This amendment provides for enforceable standards--let me emphasize this. I say to my colleagues, and I know they believe me, I am an internationalist. I very much want to see expanded trade. I very much want to see expanded relations with other countries. The question is the terms of trade, and I am especially focused on the need to have enforceable labor standards. 
   Under this amendment, before any of the benefits of the CBI trade bill can go into effect, the Secretary of Labor will have to determine a CBI country is providing for enforcement of the core ILO labor rights. That is what this amendment does. 
   The Secretary will make this determination after consulting with labor people from the region and after consideration of public comments. But the Secretary of Labor will make the determination to make sure the country  with which we have trade relations is providing for the enforcement of the ILO core labor rights. I want to make sure these standards are enforceable. U.S. citizens will also have a private right of action in district courts to enforce these provisions. 
   The alternatives in the CBI Parity bill are unenforceable. That is my dissent from this legislation. The CBI Parity bill merely includes labor rights as an eligibility criterion which can only be enforced by the administration. But the administration already enforces the GSP program and has never, not one time, suspended a CBI country, despite their terrible labor rights records. 
   Later on, I will provide, from my point of view, too much by way of documentation. That is to say, the number of petitions that have been filed with the USTR under the GSP program. Every single time the petition has been withdrawn. There has been no real response. 
   If the administration will not use its GSP leverage to improve labor rights in these countries, why would we expect them to use an eligibility criterion? The ILO is not an option because it does not have the enforcement power. I want to make sure there are some enforceable labor standards that will apply to this CBI trade agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before yielding to the Senator from Montana--I will be pleased to accommodate him--my understanding is that before we come to a final vote, there will be an opportunity for further discussion of this amendment. There are some additional comments I want to make, especially in response to the very helpful comments of the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
   Mr. BAUCUS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I had a chance to speak earlier about the amendment I had introduced, and then we cut off the discussion to enable Senator BAUCUS to have a chance to speak on the floor. I look forward to comments by my colleague from Delaware, but I think what I will first try to do is summarize this amendment and then hear what my colleague, Senator ROTH, has to say. 
   This amendment would provide for mutually beneficial trade relations--that is what we talked about earlier--between the U.S. and Caribbean countries by rewarding those countries that comply with internationally recognized core labor rights with increased access to the U.S. market for certain textile goods. 
   Secondly, it would provide for enforceable labor standards. Before any of the CBI trade bill's benefits could go into effect, the Secretary of Labor would have to determine that a CBI country is providing for enforcement of ILO core labor rights. The Secretary would make this determination after consulting with labor officials in these other countries and after public comments. But the Secretary of Labor makes the final decision. U.S. citizens would have a private right of action in district court to enforce these provisions. 
   This amendment would basically apply the labor standards of Senator FEINGOLD's HOPE for Africa bill to CBI countries. Supporters of CBI parity claim that NAFTA-like benefits will help the Caribbean workers. I want to point out again--because I am an internationalist and I am interested in mutually beneficial trade--that an October 1999 report on Mexican maquiladoras by the Comite Fronterizo de Obreros shows that wages and conditions have actually deteriorated since NAFTA. If NAFTA hasn't helped Mexican workers, why would NAFTA parity help CBI workers? I already presented data this morning, and I won't do it again. 
   In October of 1999, the CFO Border Committee of Women Workers issued a report detailing what happened to workers in the Mexican maquiladoras since the passage of NAFTA. They found that the maquiladoras paid the lowest wages in Mexican industry; that real wages in Mexican manufacturing have declined by more than 20 percent since 1994; that wage levels have come under attack whenever they are over the threshold considered competitive by the maquiladoras; that border workers have endured a sharp decline in their standard of living since NAFTA; that the practice of using child labor in the maquilas is widespread; and that in the name of NAFTA, Mexican companies, aided by their government, are ``waging a tireless and surreptitious campaign of dirty tricks to stamp out unions in the maquiladoras.'' That is the report. 
   The same is true of the CBI countries. Those countries, which have the fastest growth in exports to the United States, have experienced the steepest decline in wages in the region. Honduran apparel exports to the United States increased 2,523 percent over the last 10 years but wages declined by 59 percent. In El Salvador, it was 2,512 percent and wages declined 27 percent. Jamaica had the least export growth, one reason being the rate of unionization in Jamaica. 
   You have average wages of 78 cents in Colombia, 69 cents in the Dominican Republic, 30 cents in Guatemala, and 23 cents in Nicaragua. 
   Basically, what we are saying again to workers in our own country is, if you organize and try to bargain collectively to make a better wage, these apparel companies will just go to these Caribbean countries. We will just basically undercut your right to organize. 
   I am in favor of the right of people to organize in our country. What we say to the workers in these countries is that if you want to make more than 35 cents an hour, or 43 cents an hour, and you join a union, or try to bargain collectively, we will deny you your right to do so. We don't have any enforceable labor standard to make sure these abuses don't continue to take place. 
   Sometimes I think the wage earners in our country are portrayed in some of this debate as if they are greedy or are portrayed as if they look backward and they don't understand this new international economy. I think in many ways this debate is about that. 
   What would you think if you were working for $8.50 an hour and you saw adopted on the floor of the Senate a trade agreement without any enforceable labor standard, which meant you were going to be competing against people who make 30 cents an hour or against people making 30 cents an hour in Guatemala? They are never going to get to $8.50. But don't we want to take these ILO standards and basic human rights standards and make sure they are enforceable? That way you can have the uplifting of the living standards of people in these countries. 
   Without this amendment, this CBI parity bill is going to merely encourage U.S. corporations to set up sweatshops in the Caribbean. This is an antisweatshop amendment. This amendment does not require that CBI countries match U.S. wages in work and working conditions, although 67 percent of the American people think the minimum wage of our trading partners should be raised to U.S. levels. That is not going to happen. But that is not what the amendment does. It only requires these countries to respect the core ILO labor standards before we give them additional benefits. 
   It is a human rights amendment. This amendment basically says we should not be encouraging these CBI countries to compete against our workers by setting up sweatshops, and it says that we have to make sure there is some means of enforcing such antisweatshop standards. 
   I want to support trade agreements. People in our country want to support trade agreements. But do you want to know something. The reason the trade policy is losing its legitimacy with the American people--I think probably poll after poll shows that the American people are suspicious of these trade agreements--is because they know they put our workers in a terrible position because they know there aren't enforceable labor standards, because they know there aren't enforceable human rights standards, and they tout these trade agreements as being great for the apparel industry, great for these corporations, and terrible for wage earners. 
   That is what this vote on this amendment is all about. Are you on the side of working people in our country so that they know they can organize in textile plants and the apparel industry, and they won't basically be shut out and the companies won't be able to say, goodbye; we are going to these other 
   countries because we don't have to abide by any labor standards? Are you on the side of these workers or are you on the side of these corporations? American workers compete with Caribbean apparel workers earning from 23 cents an hour in Nicaragua to 80 cents an hour in Colombia. Our workers make about $8.42, on average. 
   Who is going to benefit from extending NAFTA benefits to the CBI countries without enforceable labor standards? 
   All I am asking with this amendment, I say to my colleague from Delaware, is enforceable labor standards. It is not going to be the textile workers. It is not going to be the workers in the CBI countries. It is going to be the American textile companies that want to shift production to sweatshops offshore so they can save labor costs. 
   Can I repeat that one more time? 
   Who is going to benefit from this trade legislation without this amendment? Who is going to benefit from extending NAFTA benefits to the CBI countries without enforceable labor standards? Not American textile workers; not working people in our country;  not the workers in the CBI countries. It is the American textile companies that are going to benefit that want to shift production to sweatshops offshore so they can save labor costs. 
   I say to Republicans and Democrats alike: Whose side are you on? If you are on the side of working people, if you are on the side of the right of people to be able to organize, if you are on the side of working people in these CBI countries and poor people in these CBI countries, and you are on the side of human rights of people in these countries, at the very minimum, we ought to vote for this amendment which will put some teeth into some enforceable labor standards. The alternatives to this amendment are unenforceable. 
   Let me be clear about that. I don't want a Senator to come to the floor and say we have already dealt with labor standards. The CBI parity merely includes labor rights as an eligibility criteria which can only be enforced by the administration. The administration already enforces the GSP program and has never suspended one CBI country despite their terrible labor rights record. 
   If the administration won't use its GSP leverage to significantly improve labor rights, why would it use eligibility criteria? Nobody can seriously argue that this administration would deny eligibility to a CBI country based on labor rights violations. They have never done it. 
   The GAO issued a report last year that listed the various GSP worker rights in CBI countries accepted for review. In each case--I gave examples earlier, so I will not do it again--the petitions were withdrawn usually after some nominal changes in the CBI country labor law. But in one CBI country after another, labor laws are flouted, often openly. 
   There have been 95 worker rights petitions against CBI countries under GSP. None, not one, has led to investigation and suspension. The ILO is not an acceptable substitute because it has no enforcement power. 
   This amendment speaks to the compelling need to have enforceable labor standards. The ILO has no enforcement power. The managers' amendment directs the President to ``seek the establishment in the ILO of a mechanism to ensure the effective implementation of each of the core labor conventions that ILO members have ratified.'' I commend Senators GRAHAM and MOYNIHAN 
   for their effort in this direction. But, again, I have to say this on the floor of the Senate. The ILO has no enforcement power, so I am not sure how the ILO can ensure effective implementation. I think enforceable standards for core ILO labor rights need to be built into the trade agreement itself. 
   Let me repeat that. 
   You have to take these basic ILO labor rights, and you have to make sure that enforceable standards are there built into the trade agreement. Otherwise, what you have is a CBI parity bill which is going to actually provide an incentive for CBI countries to move in the opposite direction. 
   I welcome the provision in the managers' amendment on increased transparency. Let me repeat that. I think it is a good idea. It will be useful. But I don't believe it is an enforceable standard that will encourage CBI countries to improve conditions for working people. That is what this is all about. I don't want anybody to misunderstand this amendment. This amendment is based upon a belief in the importance of international trade relations. It is based upon the importance of making sure we address the standard of living in CBI countries and the standard of living of working people in our country. But you can't do that unless you have enforceable labor standards. That is what this amendment calls for. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. I will wait to hear what my colleagues have to say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment provides for enforceable labor standards. This is about the terms of trade and wanting to make sure with the CBI countries that when it comes to the right to organize and bargain collectively, people are not imprisoned for asserting this right, and that basic human rights and basic labor rights are met. In that way, we will have a trade agreement with enforceable labor standards that says to wage earners in our country: You are not going to lose your job in the apparel industry to other countries because they are paying 35 cents an hour and violate basic labor rights. It also says to workers in CBI countries: It is a benefit to you; you do not have to depend on investment by only making 35 or 40 cents an hour and not able to have basic human rights and labor rights. 
   This amendment calls for enforceable labor rights. It is the right thing to do. It is all about the right terms of trade, and I hope my colleagues will vote for this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I speak today to say a few words about a remarkable farm leader and humanitarian, Anne Kanten. 
   Anne has served for 18 years on the board of directors of the Farmers Legal Action Group (F.L.A.G.), a non-profit law firm based in St. Paul, Minnesota, and dedicated to helping family farmers obtain economic and social justice. I salute Anne Kanten for her enlightened guidance to F.L.A.G. during her years as a director and her years on the board. But far more than that, I want to take this moment to acknowledge Anne Kanten's lifetime of service to others. 
   Anne served as Minnesota's Deputy Commissioner of Agriculture and as Chief Administrator of the Minnesota Farm Advocate Program during the years of farm crisis in the 1980's. She was a founding member of the American Agriculture Movement who, with her husband Chuck and son Kent, helped plan and carry out the Washington, DC Tractorcade of 1979. In addition, Anne has been a long time spokesperson for stewardship of the land and its people through her various leadership roles in her church. 
   Her efforts to achieve justice for farm families continue to this day. 
   Anne Kanten grew up on an Iowa farm, the daughter of immigrants who came to our country in pursuit of a better life. By her own admission, she longed to escape the 1930's Depression of her rural childhood. After attending college and becoming a teacher, Anne became re-connected to the land when she married Chuck Kanten, a young farmer from Milan, Minnesota. Anne and Chuck Kanten represent the best of American Life. They raised a wonderful family on their farm home. They believe strongly in giving of themselves. 
   I consider myself honored and fortunate to count Anne Kanten as my friend. I ask the Senate today to join me in recognizing Anne Kanten for her years of service to the Farmers Legal Action Group and to farm families everywhere.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I speak today to recognize a very special Minnesotan. Ted Winter will be celebrating his 50th birthday the day after Thanksgiving. Friends and family will be gathering at the American Legion in Fulda, Minnesota, to honor this very good and decent man. 
   It is very appropriate that this year his birthday falls so close to Thanksgiving because as a Minnesotan I am very thankful that Ted so ably represents the people of Southwestern Minnesota in the State Legislature; I am thankful that Ted continues to be a strong voice for those struggling to maintain their family farms; I am thankful that Ted struggles daily to ensure the vitality of our rural communities and that he is committed to a vision of Minnesota that is rich and diverse. 
   In the last few years, Ted has been the driving force behind uniting Midwest State Legislators in calling for a change in federal farm policy. He has been central in calling attention to the devastating effect the concentration of power in agriculture is having on family farmers. Day in and day out, Ted spends time away from his own farm to work with farm organizations and other farmers to come up with ways that family farmers can survive to farm another day. He drives throughout the state to make sure that any meeting discussing the future of Minnesota includes a discussion about the future of family farms and rural communities. 
   I am pleased to be able to speak today to honor my friend, Ted Winter.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991102</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the time allotted to Senator LAUTENBERG of 5 minutes be equally divided between Senator MURRAY and myself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991102</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I echo the words of my colleagues, Senator HARKIN from Iowa, and Senator DURBIN from Illinois. 
   I came here with Senator GRAHAM of Florida when we had this bill on the floor. We talked about the 50-percent cut in title XX block grant social services. That does not sound like much, but let me translate that into human terms. 
   We talked about the need to have an adequate amount of funding for community mental health services, and the number of people who do not get any care whatsoever. How are we going to deal with people during an extreme mental illness and help children when we don't provide the funding? It is unconscionable. 
   We talked about the cuts in congregate dining for elderly people, and we talked about cuts for Meals on Wheels for elderly people who can't get dining. We haven't even fully funded that program. Now we are talking about cuts in that program. 
   What are we about, if we are going to make cuts in these kinds of programs that we haven't adequately funded in the first place? 
   I talked about the particular problem for Minnesota. When we have these kinds of cuts in these block grant and social service programs, they are passed on to the community level. The States are not involved. It is going to take us a year and a half to two years to provide any of this funding at the State level, if we are ever going to be able to do so. 
   I say to my colleagues, what about compassion? What about programs that are so important to the neediest people, to the most vulnerable citizens, to children, to the elderly? What are we doing cutting these programs? 
   I wish Senator GRAHAM was here as well because we restored that 30 percent funding on the floor of the Senate, including community mental health services. All of it has been taken out in conference committee, at least what we were able to add as an increase. 
   I think that is cruel, shortsighted, unfair, and I don't think it is the Senate at its best. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am introducing today legislation of great importance to two tribes in Minnesota, the Bois Forte Bank of Chippewa and the Grand Portage Band of Chippewa. This bill would exempt income derived from an agreement between the two bands and the State of Minnesota from being considered as income for purposes of Federal assistance eligibility when the funds from the agreement are distributed to tribal members. 
   Under current law, most payments to Indians derived from trust resources are exempt from consideration as income or resources for the purposes of determining federal benefits under various Federal or federally assisted programs. Regulations promulgated by various Federal agencies reflect the statutory exemptions for income derived from interests of individual Indians in trust or restricted lands and from payments distributed to tribal members as the result of Indian claims awards. This legislation is to accord similar treatment to payments made to the approximately 2,700 members of the Bois Forte Band and the 790 members of the Grand Portage Band. 
   In 1988 the two bands entered into an agreement with the state of Minnesota whereby the State agreed to make an annual payment to the bands in exchange for the bands' restriction of their members' hunting and fishing rights. These rights are guaranteed by the treaty of September 30, 1854. From that payment, the Tribal Councils of the Bands make small annual payments to their members. The Bois Forte Band pays each of its members $500 per year, for example. The shares of minors are paid into a trust fund that cannot and disbursed until the minor reaches the age of 18. The shares of adults are paid directly to them. 
   These payments are intended to compensate the band members for a Federal treaty right that they have elected to forgo in return for these funds. As a result, this constitutes income which is derived from a trust resource. The intent of the Federal law is that such funds--up to a certain level, are not treated as income for purposes of Federal benefit eligibility. This is in recognition of the special status of Indian tribes within the United States, and the trust relationship that the Federal Government maintains to this day. However, while these payments clearly fall within the intent Federal law to protect trust resources, the current statute does not encompass these payments. 
   The result is that for a small number of band members, approximately 10 percent of the Bois Forte band and currently no members of the Grand Portage Band, this income is of no real benefit because it reduces or eliminates their public assistance payment. These members are all extremely poor, elderly, or disabled. Mr. President, these are people who can least afford to bear the brunt of this loophole in Federal law. 
   Additionally, Mr. President, these band members see a spike in their income--an extremely small spike mind you--in 1 month out of the year. Does it serve any public purpose to kick them off of Federal assistance in that 1 month, only to require them to reapply in the following month? Their circumstances are not changed by this payment. These funds will not lift anyone out of poverty, they do not replace an income lost to disability or age. 
   This bill will ensure that members of the Bois Forte and Grand Portage Bands receive fair--though small--compensation for their foregone treaty rights. It is a question of simple equity and I urge my colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today which will allow the Lower Sioux Indian Community of Minnesota to sell non-trust land which falls outside their reservation borders. Enactment of this bill would give the Lower Sioux the same rights as any other landowner: to conduct real estate transactions without an act of Congress. 
   The Lower Sioux Community has acquired several parcels of land outside its reservation borders. None of these lands are held in trust by the United States. The Community pays state and local property taxes on the land and is not exempted from local zoning ordinances. The Community is treated like any other non-Indian land owner with regard to these parcels under the law--except that federal law requires that Congress approve the sale of land owned in fee simple by Indian tribes. In other words, should the Community wish to engage in almost any kind of land transaction involving these parcels, Congress must pass legislation to allow it to happen. 
   The Community seeks to have this burden lifted from them. It argues that the Community's development projects are unfairly restricted by this requirement. Indeed, my colleagues know how long it can take for Congress to act on even the most parochial and non-controversial of legislation. Last year, we were successful in passing legislation authorizing the sale of a single parcel of land owned by the Lower Sioux. It passed as part of a technical amendments bill, but the entire process took over six months. All of this for a plot of land no bigger than thirteen acres. 
   Obviously, such hurdles can make dealing with the Lower Sioux Community complicated and time consuming. Congress could even choose not to act upon a request. This puts the band at a competitive disadvantage relative to other land owners. The Lower Sioux is not a wealthy community. It can ill afford the hassles of pursuing closure in Washington to deals in Minnesota. 
   This legislation is introduced at the request of the Lower Sioux Community. The legislation does not cover any other tribe besides the Lower Sioux Community, and again, it applies only to land not held in trust by the United States or that is not within the borders of the Community's reservation. This is a narrowly focused bill designed to meet the unique needs and circumstances of the Lower Sioux Community. 
   Mr. President, this legislation will lower barriers to the Lower Sioux's pursuit of economic opportunities to improve the lives of its members. With that in mind, I believe it is both appropriate and necessary and I urge its adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I might ask my colleague to yield 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair and I thank my colleague from South Carolina. I thank him for all his fine work in this Chamber. 
   Mr. President, I want to divide my remarks in 5 minutes and deliver them in two parts. In the first part, I will talk about the African-Caribbean trade bill. I want to repeat two points I made  during the course of this debate. There are some very good Senators who in very good conscience can have different viewpoints on this legislation. 
   For my own part, the first point I will make is that I actually do not believe this is about whether or not we as a nation are in an international economy; we are. And I don't think it is about whether or not we are actively involved in trade; we are. It is more about the terms of the trade. I do believe it is a flaw, a fundamental flaw, of this legislation that, again, we have trade legislation that does not have any enforceable labor protections or enforceable environmental protections. At the very minimum, it would seem to me we have to get serious about having clear language in these agreements which gives people the right in countries with which we are trading to be able to organize and bargain collectively for themselves and their families. The same thing can be said for the environment, the same thing can be said for child labor, and the same thing can be said for human rights as a part of these labor agreements. 
   I think basically what this African and Caribbean trade agreement says is two things. It says to workers, to wage earners in our country: If you should decide you want to organize to be able to bargain collectively and get a better wage and better working conditions for yourself so you can do better for your family, then just understand that these companies, these businesses, will just go to other parts of the world where they don't have to deal with you at all. They don't have to deal with the right of the workers to be able to organize. What it says to poor people and what it says to working people in African countries and Caribbean countries is, the way you get the investment is to be willing to work for jobs that pay less than 30 cents an hour, or whatever the case might be, because that is the only way it is going to happen because there are in these agreements no protections, no enforceable labor code--child labor, right to organize, right to bargain collectively--no enforceable environmental code. That is the first point. 
   The second point I will make about this legislation is that I think it is a terrible message to send as we move to the WTO gathering in Seattle. I am in profound disagreement with the administration on this. They think we should pass this and that would be important. To me, I hear the administration, Democrats--I am a Democrat--saying to labor, and saying to environmentalists, and saying to nongovernmental organizations, and saying to a whole lot of other people: Listen, we have a real chance at this WTO gathering of moving toward enforceable 
   labor codes, enforceable environmental protection. Well, if you can't do it in a bilateral agreement, how in the world are you going to do it in a multilateral agreement, multinational agreement? It is not going to happen. So I oppose this legislation on substantive grounds. 
   I hope my colleagues, especially Democrats, will vote against cloture because we have again been shut out of the opportunity to introduce amendments that really go to the heart of whether we can represent people in our States. 
   I have talked about the right to fight for family farmers for 8 weeks. The majority leader said the other day he filled up the tree one time. I said I thought the record would show more than that. I think in the last year it has been 9 or 10 times we have been shut out of the opportunity to even have an up-or-down vote. What is relevant to me is the pain and agony of the family farmers and all the producers who are being driven off the land, and to not have the opportunity to consider amendments, to have a debate and up-or-down votes, and to fight for people back in my state to try to make a difference for family farmers. And other Senators feel the same way. 
   I also said I do not think the debate about campaign finance reform is over. To me, the energy is at the State level. To me, the energy is toward clean money and clean elections, and I want an opportunity to offer an amendment that would give States the authority to have a clean-money, clean-election initiative that would apply not only to State races but to House and Senate races as well. 
   This debate is not over. Just because there are Senators here who block reform, we will not go away. I want to offer an amendment which gives States the ability to pass sweeping campaign finance reform and that would apply to our elections as well. 
   I think that is where the energy is going to be. 
   If we are not going to do it here, if the powerful financial interests are going to block reform, let the States do it. I have an amendment on that. I want to be able to bring up the amendment for debate. That is what the Senate is all about. We are not the House of Representatives. Therefore, I hope Senators will vote against cloture around this fundamental principle that the Senate should be the Senate and we debate and fight for the people in our States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I heard the majority leader mention he did not want to see amendments that he did not think were directly related, such as agriculture. As the majority leader knows, for the last 5 weeks I have asked him when I would have the opportunity. The majority leader said he thinks this is the first time he has filled up the tree, or second time. I think there may be other times, but I would have to check. I do not remember an opportunity in the last 4 or 5 weeks, or longer than that, to have an amendment out here that I think will speak to the pain of farmers. 
   When might I have an opportunity to introduce this amendment that I think would make a difference for family farmers in Minnesota who are being driven off the land? If the majority leader is filling up the tree and therefore I cannot do this, can he tell me when I might have an opportunity? Will he make a commitment there will be a piece of legislation out here that I can amend? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the majority leader be willing to entertain a freestanding bill I might introduce and have debate on? We have to do something, I say to the majority leader, about what is going on in farm country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the majority leader yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I appreciate the leader's graciousness. I will not take up any more time with questions to him. 
   Having just heard the majority leader's report about disaster relief, he may want to reconsider his view about whether or not he would vote for or against an amendment or piece of legislation I would introduce because I say to the majority leader in the form of a question: I am quite sure that, as the majority leader travels around the country in rural America, he understands that the financial assistance package did not deal with the price crisis. People are going to be driven off the land and we have to change the policy. 
   I appreciate what he said. I guess it is less a form of a question, but perhaps I will get his support because I am sure the majority leader wants to see the Senate take some action that will make a positive difference for family farmers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I see the Senator from Ohio is here. I ask unanimous consent that I follow the Senator from Ohio. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me repeat, in about 2 minutes, what I suggested today about the legislation before us, the several trade bills. 
   I think while those who argue, with the WTO meeting that is coming up in Seattle, that we might be able to have some enforceable labor provisions and environmental provisions, and, for that matter, think about a fair shake for farmers in this trade regime, now bring to the floor of the Senate some trade agreements where there is no enforceable labor standards whatsoever, no enforceable environmental standards--zero--the message of this legislation to working people in this country is: If you should want to organize and bargain collectively to make a decent wage, those companies are gone. And the message to people in other countries, the Caribbean and African countries, is: The only way you get investors to your country is if you are willing to work for less than 30 cents an hour, or whatever. 
   This is hardly legislation that leads to the uplifting of living standards of working families in our country, much less poor and working people in other countries. 
   I am opposed to these trade bills and have had a chance yesterday to lay out my case. And Senator HOLLINGS has spoken today. Others may have spoken, as well. 
   But what I want to do right now is speak to another issue which I think is almost more important than the legislation before us. 
   We now have legislation out here, and the ``tree'' has been filled with amendments, so there is no opportunity whatsoever for those of us who have been saying for a while that we wanted to have an opportunity to offer some amendments, some legislation that we think will make a difference for the people we represent, there is no opportunity for us to be able to do so. That is what is at issue. 
   If the majority leader, to whom I spoke about this earlier, was serious about trying to get this legislation passed, getting the necessary votes for cloture, then certainly we wouldn't have a piece of legislation on the floor with the tree filled with no opportunity for Senators to offer amendments. The majority leader wants to argue they have to be relevant amendments. Who gets to define relevant? One wonders whether or not, if we had amendments to have enforceable labor standards, that would be viewed as relevant. 
   For me, it has been, now, about 6 weeks. This is why I deferred to the Senator from Ohio. First of all, he was on the floor first and I didn't want to precede his speaking. Secondly, I want to take a little bit of time. I think probably I will wait for a more timely time to take more time because one way or the other I am going to force a vote on some agricultural initiatives. The Chair and others can vote for or against it, but I have, for the last 6, 7 weeks, asked the majority leader, when will I have an opportunity to offer legislation I think will fix not all that is wrong but at least could make a positive difference? Other Senators can disagree. But we take responsibility for what we do, and we vote one way or the other. We debate one way or the other, and then we are held accountable. 
   The exchange I had with the majority leader today about this has been going on for quite some time. The majority leader said he was pretty sure if I introduced an amendment, he probably would be opposed to it. That is fine. It think the more important point, which is what I tried to explain--I don't choose to debate the majority leader; he is not here--is 
   that nobody in the Senate, Democrat or Republican, should be under the illusion, because we passed a financial assistance package, emergency package, that we have, in fact, dealt with the price crisis. I don't know of any producers who feel good about this bailout legislation every year. People are sick of it. They want us to get to the root of the problem. 
   They don't think the farm policy is working. I don't think it is working. I don't even choose to point the finger. I thought Freedom to Farm was ``freedom to fail.'' I never liked it. I thought it was a big mistake. I thought it was great for the packers and the grain companies. I didn't think it was good for family farmers. Others take a different position. 
   It seems to me the point is, looking forward not backward, whether or not we are willing to talk about some modification, some adjustment, some changes. If Senators don't think taking the cap off the loan rate makes sense, then what else? If Senators don't think a moratorium on these mergers and acquisitions, which is what I will talk about today--that is the amendment I wanted to introduce to this legislation, which the majority leader shut me out from doing right now--makes sense, then perhaps Senators will have other proposals. 
   In farm country in Minnesota--maybe it isn't that way in Montana--almost everybody I know thinks there is a correlation between monopoly power, the power of a few companies that muscled their way to the dinner table and have control, and their low prices. The farm retail spread grows wider and wider, a lot of our producers face extinction, and the packers are in hog heaven. IBP makes record profits, and pork producers are going under. 
   I thought I could introduce this amendment today, which I will explain. 
   Mr. President, I came to the floor probably for the sixth or seventh time today to ask the majority leader when I would have an opportunity to submit an amendment to introduce legislation that I believe will speak at least in part to the economic convulsion that is taking place in agriculture. We have too many family farms that are going under the auctioneer's hammer. There are too many of our producers who are being driven off the land. 
   If I had to pick one ``issue'' that means the most to me right now just in terms of the emotion of it, it would be what is happening to our producers. What is happening to our producers is they are being driven off the land. This is not only where they work. It is where they live. I think it is all quite unnecessary. I think if we were willing to change some of the policies, this wouldn't be happening. 
   I am determined one way or another to force the Senate to vote up or down on several initiatives that I believe would make a difference. If there are other Senators who have a better idea than having a moratorium on these mergers and acquisitions that are leading to more monopoly power by these conglomerates and driving farmers off the land, or have a better idea of taking the cap off the loan rate, or creating a farmer loan reserve, or extending the payment period on the loan rate so that farmers have some leverage vis-a-vis these huge conglomerates, then come out on the floor of the Senate with your ideas. If there are Senators who believe we should leave 
   in the next week or two without taking any action whatsoever to deal with the price crisis, to deal with what is really going on in agriculture, then come on out and make the argument. 
   I appreciate the exchange with the majority leader. But, to tell you the truth, I think what is going on in the countryside doesn't have much to do with whether or not the majority leader says something that is fairly clever, or I say something that is fairly clever, or we have a kind of back and forth discussion. That is fine. Each of us is saying what we believe. Each of us is representing what we think is right. 
   The only thing I know is that October 25, 1999, at the Bird Island Elevator in Renville County, wheat was $2.89 a bushel; corn was $1.43 a bushel; soybeans were $4.04 a bushel; and this is way below the cost of production. These farmers can work 19 hours a day, be the best managers in the world, and they are still going to go under. 
   If U.S. Senators want to come out on the floor and amend the ``freedom to fail'' bill, feel free to do so. But let's have the debate. More importantly, let's all come out here with some legislation, some change in policy, that will make a difference so we don't lose a whole generation of family farmers. 
   In Minnesota, farm income has decreased 43 percent since 1966, and more than 25 percent of the remaining farmers may not be able to cover expenses, or won't be able to cover expenses in 1999.  
   That is why I take it so personally when I am essentially told again: We are going to shut you out. We are going to bring this legislation to the floor. We are going to fill up the tree, and we are going to make sure, Senator WELLSTONE, that you can't come out here with an amendment, or with legislation that you think would help farmers in your State. 
   I hope my colleagues will vote against cloture, whether or not they are for this trade legislation, just because of the way business is being conducted in the Senate. The way business should be conducted in the Senate is that when we have a piece of legislation, Senators must be able to come out with amendments they believe are an important part of their work to represent people in their State. If other Senators don't agree, they can come out and disagree. If other Senators want to come out and say you have no business bringing legislation to the floor of the Senate that deals with agriculture because we are on a trade bill, then I would ask you: When have I had the opportunity over the last several months or for the last year? The majority leader alluded to some of my colleagues who think that because we passed the financial assistance package we have dealt with the problem. Spend one second in Minnesota, come on out to northwest Minnesota, or west central Minnesota, or southwest Minnesota, or southeast Minnesota, and meet with some of our producers. Look in their faces and see grown men and women break down and cry. Why don't you come out to do that? Since, again, we are not going to take any action--this legislation is now filled up with amendments--people in greater Minnesota don't know and have any idea what ``fill up a tree'' means. It means, once again, we can't come out here and fight for the people in our State.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have a question. If the Senator from Florida is going to speak now, I am not actually trying to get the floor ahead of him. I wanted to ask the Senator from Florida, is it his intention to speak on this legislation now? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Absolutely. Of course. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, for those who might be watching our deliberations, I had a chance to speak yesterday about Senator Chafee. I will get back to the debate on this legislation. 
   As I listened to my colleagues, I was reminded of a press conference that we had several months ago on some work I have been doing with Senator DOMENICI. The legislation is called the Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act, which we very much want to pass this year. Certainly, we won't get it done in the next 2 weeks, but I hope we will when we come back. I remembered that one of the original cosponsors was Senator Chafee. I agree with what everybody has said about him. It will be a tremendous loss for the Senate and our country. Again, today, I extend my love to Senator Chafee's family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, both colleagues have been gracious to those of us who are in opposition to this legislation. We will be taking some time to lay out our case against the legislation. Senator HOLLINGS, of course, is one of the leading opponents. Because of the necessity to go back to his family experience of the real agony of having a home burned down, he needs to be away for this afternoon. A number of us will be here because a number of Senators want to speak. I will divide up my time and take about a half hour now, and I will be back this afternoon as other Senators speak. 
   I have a letter that went out to Senators, signed by many African American religious leaders who oppose the African Growth and Opportunity Act and support the HOPE for Africa Act. That is the title. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to say to my colleague from Florida, given the remarks I am about to make, that I know when it comes to the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement Act, although we have a number of trade bills that are lumped together right now--he is interested in one of the questions that I am going to be raising today and one of the reasons I oppose this. I certainly hope we can have some enforceable labor standards. I will talk about that in a moment. 
   I want to say one of two things. Either the debate on S. 1387 and S. 1389 is not the debate that we should be having now, or if we do move on to this legislation--I ask for the yeas and nays on the motion to proceed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If we go forward, I want to make the case that either we should not be considering this legislation, or if we go forward, a number of Senators are very anxious to have the opportunity to bring amendments to the floor that are all about our work and representation of the people in our States. In particular, I want to make the case that I have an amendment that I have said to the majority leader for the last 4 weeks--I have had to even put holds on other bills of some Senators, making the point that I am not opposed to your legislation. I don't want it going through by unanimous consent, and I only want an opportunity to have an up-or-down vote on this amendment that deals with the mergers and acquisitions that are taking place in agriculture. 
   My view is we ought to have a moratorium on these mergers and acquisitions at least for the next 18 months. We ought to do that because, right now, this frightening concentration of power on the part of these packers and grain companies and on the part of these middle men, on the part of these exporters is driving our family farmers and producers off the land--that along with record low prices. The two are interrelated. I certainly, as I speak today--and probably this afternoon--will talk about that amendment and talk about why I believe so strongly that I should have the opportunity to--and I intend to--bring that amendment out on this legislation if we go forward. 
   I also want to say I don't think the debate on campaign finance reform should be over. It is too central an issue to politics and public life in America. I think it is the core problem. I think it is one of the major reasons why people are so disillusioned. I had an amendment that I brought to the floor, which basically went down when those who were opposed to campaign finance reform were able to block the legislation. 
   The amendment I am focused on says, look, if we are not prepared to enact bold reform, then at least let's not get in the way of citizens around the country who, at the grassroots level, are making a difference. And if the people in Maine, Vermont, Missouri, Massachusetts, and other States are going to go forward with the clean money/clean election initiative, which is a way of getting the big, private interest money out and basically making sure the public financing means these elections belong to the people, they ought to be able to apply that to Federal races as well, the Senate races and House races. For any Senator or Representative, it would be voluntary on our part as to whether we want to be part of that system. But States ought to be able to pass legislation to present that option. I will have that amendment, and I will be ready to introduce that amendment to this legislation. I don't think the debate on campaign finance reform should be over. I hope other Senators will come out here with other amendments to deal with campaign finance reform. 
   If we think this is such a central issue, if we think this is an issue perhaps of the same importance as the civil rights question and legislation that we passed in 1964 and 1965, we ought not to be abandoning this fight. And there are a number of us with amendments. 
   For me, again, my answer on that is, first and foremost, the producers and the family farmers of my State are being driven off the land. I think the farm policy is a miserable failure. I think we have to make some changes. I am hoping people on both sides of the aisle will agree. I am not interested in pointing fingers and saying you cast the wrong vote X number of years ago; you are wrong, and you are wrong. I am interested in making some modifications and changes to get farm prices up and farm income up to give our producers a fair shake. That is what I am interested in. I certainly am interested in this whole question of campaign finance reform. 
   I also want to say to colleagues that I certainly hope we consider an amendment on raising the minimum wage. We have been trying to get this amendment up for some time now. 
   Senators should have an up-or-down vote. If Senators are opposed to raising the minimum wage $1 over 2 years, then Senators can come out here and say they are opposed and make their case. I think that is the way it should be. I am sure I will hear some good arguments on the other side of the aisle, or maybe even among some Democrats. I don't know why they oppose raising the minimum wage. I think some of them will be forceful arguments. But the point is, we ought to be accountable. The point is, we ought to be willing to have an up-or-down vote. I am assuming there will be Senators who will want to have an amendment on raising the minimum wage, Senator KENNEDY being the leader of this effort with any number of us joining in. 
   Finally, before I get to the substance of this bill, I want to bring up another topic which I am sure some of my colleagues are tired of. This will be the fourth round where I have been making the appeal that we ought to have the courage to do the policy evaluation to know what is happening with the welfare bill. Every time I do this, I am either defeated by a close vote or it is  passed and then dropped in conference. I think that has happened again. To me, it is outrageous. I will have an opportunity to talk about this when I introduce this amendment. 
   But to make a very long story short, to cut the welfare rolls in half does not necessarily mean we have success. We have success when we have cut poverty in half; we have success when welfare recipients, who by definition are basically single-parent families--women and children primarily--are better off economically. So we ought to know, as women and children are essentially no longer receiving welfare assistance, do women have jobs now? What kind of wages do they pay? We need to understand. The Families U.S.A. study says 670,000 of America's children have no medical assistance because of this bill. Do they still have health care coverage or not? In addition, we ought to know with the 30- to 35-percent drop in food stamp participation--the Food Stamp Program being the major safety net program for children's nutrition--does this mean more children are now going hungry today in our country? 
   Finally, we need to know whether or not there is affordable child care. We ought to at least do the honest policy 
   evaluation. Given, again, the conference committee dropped this, I will be back with this amendment. 
   After having said that, in particular, again, let me emphasis my primary focus--there are a number of amendments--which is, more than anything else, I want to make the fight on agriculture. I want to have the opportunity to bring to the floor of the Senate an amendment and legislation that I think will help alleviate some of the suffering among family farmers. I want to do that. I think we should have, before we leave, the opportunity to have a debate about ways in which we can change agricultural policy for the better. If other Senators have other ideas, I think that is great as well. I do not want to see us leave without trying to take some positive action. 
   After having said that, I think this debate about the CBI and the African trade bill could be useful and enlightening. I said this on Friday as well. The question really is, when we talk about trade policy, we want to know whether we can make the global economy work for working families. That is the test: Can we make this new global economy work for working families in our country. I am an internationalist. I argue for the people of the other countries as well. 
   Senator FEINGOLD introduced an impressive and innovative bill based on legislation that was introduced in the House by JESSE JACKSON, Jr., that blazes a trail for U.S. trade policy. It is truly ground breaking. 
   Finally, people who want our trade policy to work for working families will have an alternative that I think they can wholeheartedly support. I don't think the issue is whether or not we expand trade. I don't think the issue is whether or not the United States of America is part of an international economy. I certainly don't think the issue is that we should put walls up on our borders. I think the issue is, on whose terms are we going to expand trade? What are the rules and who benefits from those rules? I am interested in the rules of trade. I am not interested in trade without rules. Let me say that again. I am interested in the rules of trade, which means I am interested in trade. I am not interested in trade without rules. 
   In this case, the choice could hardly be clearer. The Feingold-Jackson legislation, called the HOPE for Africa Act, says the expansion of trade should benefit working families and poor families in America and in Africa. Trade agreements should be about making the global economy work for ordinary citizens. The HOPE for Africa bill says if you are really serious about raising labor and environmental standards across the globe, then we have to have enforceable--let me mention that two or three times--enforceable protections built into our trade agreements. The HOPE for Africa bill says that we can't be serious about wanting to help African countries develop economically if we don't do anything about their crushing debt burden. The HOPE for Africa bill says that the lives of Americans or the lives of Africans suffering from AIDS are more important than the monopoly profits of the pharmaceutical companies. The HOPE for Africa bill has its priorities set straight. It expands trade the right way by putting people first. We have heard that before. Why don't we make it a reality? 
   Our other option, I fear, is more of the same, more NAFTAs--NAFTA for the Caribbean, NAFTA for all of South America, NAFTA for Africa. I certainly don't want to see IMF-style economic policies that I think have been impoverishing 
   one country after another all over the world with the austerity measures--raise interest rates, try to export your way out of a crisis, and more investment protections for multinationals to export jobs overseas so they can avoid complying with American-style labor and environmental standards. That is what we are talking about--more investment protection for multinationals to export jobs overseas so they can avoid complying with American-style labor and environmental standards--more trade incentives so multinationals can shift those goods right back into the United States, competing against American workers trying to organize a union. 
   The message is: Try to organize a union and we go to another country. More enforceable protections for the interests of multinationals and foreign investors and more unenforceable lip service for the interests of working families. This is a policy that says to working Americans: Don't even try to organize a union. 
   This is the main basis of my opposition. Do that and we will move jobs overseas with special trade and investment incentives. It says to workers overseas, don't try to organize a union; the only way to compete for foreign investment is by accepting rock bottom wages. 
   That is the flaw in this trade legislation. It is a pretty good deal for an investor who wants to save labor costs, but it is a pretty rotten deal for an American worker or worker overseas. That is what is at issue. We are basically saying to working Americans: Don't even try to organize a union; do that and we will move your jobs overseas. That is what we are saying. 
   It says to the workers overseas: Don't try to organize a union; the only way to get the foreign investment is by accepting rock bottom wages. 
   It is great for the investors who want to save labor costs, but it is a rotten deal for an American worker and it is a rotten deal for a low-wage worker in another country. 
   I want to see a global trade policy that works for workers. I want to see a trade policy that lifts the living standards of workers. This is a developmental model that has failed time after time. This is the way of the past. It is time to say good riddance once and for all. 
   It is not as if we don't have any choice. The Feingold 
   bill gives a clear alternative. It is called the HOPE for Africa Act. We need something similar for the Caribbean. I know my colleague from Florida is now working on trying to have some enforceable labor standards. That would make a huge difference. 
   We have a World Trade Organization meeting coming up in Seattle. I hear the discussion from the administration and others who want this trade legislation to pass. They think it is possible we could push for meaningful and enforceable labor and environmental standards. 
   What kind of message are we now conveying, with about a month to go before this critical WTO meeting, when we are talking about a bilateral trade agreement which does not have any enforceable labor and environmental standards? I ask the administration: Where are you going with this? What is your message to labor? What is your message to the environmental groups? What is your message to the human rights groups? What is your message to all the nongovernment organizations that are going to be out in Seattle? 
   As a Senator, I will be proud to join them. On the one hand, we have the rhetoric that says we think it is possible through WTO to have enforceable labor and environmental standards. That is implied in the rhetoric. At the same time, we have some trade bills that the administration is saying we have to pass; this is a No. 1 priority; we have to pass them before the WTO, which communicates the exact opposite message. They basically say we are not interested in enforceable labor standards; we are not interested in enforceable environmental standards.  
   And, by the way, the message for farmers and producers in my State: If we don't have an opportunity to offer amendments, we are also not interested in trade policy that gives them any kind of fair shake. Both Senator DORGAN and Senator CONRAD will be out here, as well. 
   I will say that 1,000 times over the next X number of hours: If we don't have the commitment to enforceable labor and environmental standards in our bilateral trade agreements, how can we credibly expect to include them in multilateral agreements? 
   I think this legislation in its present form sets a terrible precedent. I think it goes in exactly the opposite direction from the words I hear the administration speak. I think it goes in the exact opposite direction from the rhetoric of at least some of my colleagues. 
   I am interested in negotiations. Senator GRAHAM has talked about the United States-Caribbean trade agreement and is trying to work on enforceable labor standards. However, I don't now see it in any of these trade bills. From my point of view, I think we have to have some enforceable labor standards that give working people in these other countries the right to organize and bargain collectively. 
   If someone in the Senate says that my insistence as a Senator from Minnesota on some enforceable global labor standard is protectionist and that is the case, then we might as well say the Fair Labor Standards Act is also protectionist. That is the piece of legislation that relates to commerce in States in our country. We are saying we are going to apply this to all the States. Companies are not going to be able to have these atrocious child labor conditions. We will have protection dealing with child labor. Senator HARKIN will probably be here 
   with an amendment dealing with that. We will make sure people have a right to organize and bargain collectively. 
   If we live in a global instead of a national economy--haven't I heard all Members say that--then we need the same kind of rules on the global level that we have on the national level for exactly the same kinds of reasons. 
   I will come back later this afternoon to critique the legislation. I am preparing amendments to introduce. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I had a chance to speak this morning and I don't really want to repeat what I said, except to mention one point which is both an argument I want to make to my colleagues here and an argument I want to also make to the administration. 
   We have a WTO meeting coming up next month in Seattle. There will be many rank-and-file labor people and labor leaders attending, farm organizations, nongovernment organizations, environmentalists. We have been told by the administration that maybe within WTO we can have some enforceable labor standards, some enforceable environmental standards, so we are raising everything up rather than racing to the bottom. 
   This is important because with NAFTA, in spite of what was said, the truth is, the environmental standards and labor standards were an afterthought and not enforceable. What kind of message are we sending to people when, on the one hand, we have the administration and others saying with WTO we will try to have enforceable standards, and then we have a bilateral agreement, several trade agreements, without enforceable labor standards, without enforceable environmental standards? 
   As a Senator my bottom line is that I am in favor of the right of people to  organize and bargain collectively in our country and in other countries. I am in favor of the rights of ordinary citizens to be able to bargain collectively and have the right to organize so they can make a decent wage and support their families. That is what is sorely lacking in this legislation. 
   I will mention one amendment. I mentioned several this morning. If we go forward with this legislation tomorrow, I certainly want to have the right to introduce amendments. I talked about a number of amendments. One dealt with campaign finance reform and for the right to apply for clean money, clean elections for Federal offices. I don't think we should abandon this debate or issue. 
   The amendment I want to introduce tomorrow, if that is the direction in which we are heading, deals with this economic convulsion that is taking place in agriculture. On October 25, Bird Island Elevator, Renville, MN, crop prices: Wheat, $2.89 a bushel; corn, $1.43 a bushel; soybeans, $4.04 a bushel. This has nothing to do with what our livestock producers are getting. 
   Let me say to those who don't know agriculture, this is way below what it costs farmers to produce a bushel of wheat or corn. 
   Let me say to my colleagues, in my State of Minnesota, farm income has decreased 43 percent since 1996, and more than 25 percent--a quarter of our farmers--may not be able to cover expenses for 1999. 
   At the same time, you have these conglomerates that have muscled their way to the dinner table, exercising their power over family farmers. They will do it over consumers, and they are driving our family farmers out. 
   According to a recent study at the University of Missouri, five firms now control over 80 percent of beef packing; six firms, 75 percent of the pork packing, and the list, frankly, goes on and on. 
   I want to give a few more figures, then mention the amendment and finish up. The top four pork packers have increased their market share from 36 percent to 57 percent. That is what has been occurring. Smithfield is buying up Murphy, and now they are about to buy part of Tyson Foods that deals with pork production. Our pork producers are facing extinction and these packers are in hog heaven. 
   The top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 percent to 80 percent just in recent years. The top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 percent to 62 percent. The top four turkey processors now control 42 percent. The list goes on and on. 
   What we have is a food industry where we are looking for the competition. So here is the amendment I will introduce with Senator DORGAN. I think we may get a majority of votes. I hope so. This will be an amendment to address the market concentration in agriculture. What we would call for is a moratorium that would apply to these mergers and acquisitions over the next 18 months, during which time there are a couple of things that will happen. This would deal with companies that had assets of over $100 million and the second party had more than $10 million. This is the threshold test right now under which these firms would have to apply to the Justice Department and FTC. 
   The moratorium would last for 18 months or until Congress passes comprehensive antitrust legislation to deal with this problem of the concentration in agriculture, whichever comes first. Moreover, our amendment will establish an antitrust review division to look at this concentration in agriculture and to make recommendations as to what kind of regulations are necessary and what kind of action we should take. 
   I finish this way. We will be talking about this legislation today. I spoke about it earlier. If we move forward tomorrow, as a Senator from Minnesota I want to have the opportunity to introduce this amendment with Senator DORGAN that calls for a moratorium on these acquisitions and mergers. I want to do it because these big conglomerates are pushing our family farmers off the land. I want to do it because there is a direct correlation between their concentrated market power and the record low prices that our producers are receiving. I want to do it because if we do not have a moratorium over the way in which these huge conglomerates are taking over agriculture, then our rural communities will be devastated and more and more family farmers will be driven off the land. Someone will own the land, someone will own the livestock, but it will be the few. 
   I think that kind of concentration of power is frightening. It is frightening for our family farmers. It is driving them off the land. It is frightening for our rural communities that depend upon the number of family farmers who live in the communities and buy there. Do you know what else? It is frightening for America. Food is a very precious commodity. We ought not have just a few conglomerates that control all phases of this food industry from seed all the way to grocery shelf. This is wrong. It is not acceptable. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, I hope my colleagues will excuse me for saying that for 4 weeks I have asked the majority leader for an opportunity to introduce the amendment. Tomorrow morning, if we go forward with this legislation, I will be here first thing and this is the first amendment I am going to introduce to this legislation. Then we can have an up-or-down vote, and I am hoping we will get a majority vote. 
   I see my colleague from North Carolina. I gather he wants to spend some time. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I speak on behalf of myself and Senator KERRY from Massachusetts, today for myself and Senator KERRY of Massachusetts today to introduce legislation that will go a long way to help parents become more involved in their children's education. We all know that families are crucial to the improvement of our nation's schools. To ensure that schools and students meet challenging educational goals, families must be involved. Parents must insist that their children get the best education. They must understand, shape and support the reforms in their schools; and, they must work with schools to help all children meet their goals. 
   We know that when families are fully engaged in the educational process, students have: higher grades and test scores; better attendance and more homework done; fewer placements in special education; more positive attitudes and behavior; higher graduation rates; and, greater enrollment in postsecondary education. 
   For school reforms to help all children, we must move to ensure that all parents are involved in their children's education. For many parents, this is not an easy task. Parents, particularly those who have limited English proficiency, or those who have a troubled history with the school system, often need outside help to get the information, support, and training they need to help their children navigate the school system. 
   Current provisions in Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act provide for excellent and important ways for parents to get involved in their children's education. However, in some cases, parent involvement of the type envisioned by Title I remains a distant goal. Many Title I schools (though not all) have failed to fully bring parents into the development of parent involvement policies, school-parent compacts, and into planning and improvement for the school as provided for in Title I. It is thus essential for families to have an independent source of information and support that they understand and trust so that they can participate in an informed and effective manner and help move the schools toward the goal of full parental participation. 
   To achieve this critical end, this legislation would provide competitive grants to community based organizations to establish Local Family Information Centers. These centers, made up of community members as well as professionals from the Title I schools in the area, should have a track record of effective outreach and work with low income communities. They, in consultation with the school district, would develop a plan to provide parents with the full support that they need to be partners in their children's education. For example, they would help parents understand standards, assessments, and accountability systems; support activities that are likely to improve student achievement in Title I schools; understand and analyze data that schools, districts, and states must provide under reporting requirements of ESEA and other laws; understand and participate in the implementation of parent involvement requirements of ESEA, including; and, communicate effectively with school personnel. 
   This legislation is essential because it would reach and assist parents most isolated from participation by poverty, race, limited English proficiency and other factors. It is essential because of what we know about how children learn--that children that are the farthest behind make the greatest gains when their parents are part of their school life. 
   Many schools do a very good job of involving parents in education reform. This bill does nothing but ensure that parents have the option of an independent voice in districts where schools do not do such a good job. If we are to educate our children, we must also educate their parents. This legislation provides one necessary means to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I found out this morning, as many other Senators, that Senator CHAFEE passed away. I see the beautiful flowers on his desk. I have been in the Senate now for 9 years, and while I did not know Senator CHAFEE as well as some Senators here, I admired him. I think he was tough in debate. He had positions that he took on issues, but he was substantive. In a way, I think he was a model of what we are about because he was interested in the debate on the issues. He was always a civil, warm, good person. 
   Sheila and I were talking to support staff today and they were saying what a nice man Senator CHAFEE was. That is what they said, that he was such a nice man. I think Senator JOHN CHAFEE was a kind, decent, caring human being. He was a great Senator with a highly developed sense of public service for Rhode Island and for the country. I know we are going to miss him and the country is going to miss him. I want to extend my love, as a Senator from Minnesota, to Senator CHAFEE's family and to the people of Rhode Island. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I start out by saying this debate over S. 1387 and S. 1389 is probably a debate we should not be having now. I think the Senate has far more important issues to deal with--having to do with the minimum wage and the standards for working people, having to do with giving consumers more protection through HMO or managed care reform, having to do with campaign finance reform and the ways in which money has subverted our representative democracy. And, believe me, if, in fact, cloture is invoked and we go forward with this bill, I will argue the farm crisis. I will have an amendment to this bill that will call for a moratorium on these acquisitions and mergers taking place that are driving our producers off the land. 
   These are the issues people care about in our country. My question is, When are we really going to be debating these issues on the floor? I think that is what we should be doing. 
   Having said that, however, I think the debate over CBI and African trade bills could be useful and enlightening because I think we have a choice between two very different models. 
   Senator FEINGOLD has introduced a very impressive and innovative bill. It is based on legislation introduced in the House by JESSE JACKSON, Jr., which really blazes a trail for U.S. trade policy. It is truly groundbreaking. And for  those people who want our trade policy to work for working families, this is the direction in which we should go. 
   I do not think we are going to have a debate between people who are saying we ought to build a wall on our borders and we should not be involved in trade. For me, that is not the issue. The issue is not whether we expand trade; the issue is on whose terms we expand trade. What are the rules and who benefits from the rules? 
   The choice could not be clearer. The Feingold-Jackson legislation, called the HOPE for Africa Act, says that an expansion of trade should benefit working families and poor families in America and in Africa. 
   Trade agreements should be about making the global economy work for working people in all countries. The HOPE for Africa bill says if we are really serious about raising labor and environmental standards across the globe, then we have to have enforceable protections built into our trade agreements. The HOPE for Africa bill says that we can't be serious about wanting to help African countries develop economically if we don't do anything about the crushing debt burden. The HOPE for Africa bill says the lives of Africans suffering from AIDs are far more important than the monopoly profits of foreign pharmaceutical companies. The HOPE for Africa bill has its priorities straight. It expands trade the right way by putting people first. 
   Our other option is the same old more of the same, more NAFTAs, NAFTA for the Caribbean, NAFTA for all of South America, NAFTA for Africa, more IMF-style economic policies that have impoverished one country after another all over the world, more investment protections for multinationals to export jobs overseas so they can avoid complying with American-style labor and environmental standards. 
   I think we should have learned our lesson from NAFTA. We have gained jobs; we have lost jobs, but that is almost beside the point. The kind of labor, environmental side agreements we put into effect were an afterthought. They were not part of the trade agreement. They weren't enforceable. Basically, if we are going to do these trade agreements, we ought to be talking about uplifting the living standards of working people, of low-income people, in our country and other countries. 
   What we have right now, without clearly enforceable standards dealing with the basic right to organize and bargain collectively, to earn a decent living in other countries, much less in our own country, is a trade agreement that says to working people: Look, these multinationals can go to other countries. They don't have to comply with fair labor standards, including the right of people to be able to organize and bargain collectively. They can pay low wages, miserably low wages, with exploitive working conditions, and then export those products back to our country, undercutting working people who are trying to produce and basically eliminating our jobs. It is lose-lose. That is why the Feingold-Jackson bill is such a clear alternative. 
   If we pass these bills without any kind of meaningful and enforceable protection for the interests of working families, we will have made a big mistake. That is part of what is going to be happening in Seattle. You will see at this WTO meeting all sorts of NGOs, nongovernment organizations, all sorts of environmental organizations. Being a Senator from Minnesota, a lot of farm organizations and farmers are going to be there. A lot of labor people are going to be there; a lot of working people are going to be there. They are going to basically say that is exactly what is at issue here--when we look at S. 1387 and 1389, the African Growth and Opportunity Act and the U.S. Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement Act. We are for trade; we are for being in an international economy, but we are not for the kind of trade agreements that drive our wages down and basically eliminate our jobs and don't provide protection for people in other countries. 
   If we are going to have trade agreements, we are for them, but not unless you have clearly enforceable standards dealing with environmental protection and dealing with the right of 
   people to organize and bargain collectively. If you don't do that, then we know all too well what these kinds of agreements mean for working families in Minnesota and our country, much less for the people of the Caribbean and African countries. 
   When people come out to this WTO meeting, they are going to say what WTO should be all about is the rules of trade, not trade without rules. We want to talk about the rules of trade. We don't want to support an agreement which is trade without rules. We want enforceable protection when it comes to the basic right of people to organize in these other countries and we want some enforceable environmental standards as well. 
   As we move forward in this debate, we do have a piece of legislation that does look to other nations, that is all about trade, that is all about our role in the international economy. The difference is that the Feingold-Jackson legislation is a trade bill that will lead to uplifting the standards of working families. 
   I want to signify to my friend and colleague from Delaware, whose work I respect, that we will have debate about whether or not this bill should be on the floor. If it is on the floor, one piece of good news for me, though I am in disagreement with the legislation, is it will give me the opportunity to bring an amendment to the floor that deals with the farm crisis, that says we should have a moratorium on these acquisitions and mergers by these big packers and big grain companies that are basically driving producers out. I hope there will be another amendment to take the cap off the loan rate to deal with the price crisis. 
   I am determined that if we go forward with this legislation, I will be out of the box with those amendments as soon as possible next week. I have been waiting for 4 weeks now to come to the Senate floor with legislation that will alleviate the pain --or some of it--of family farmers in our States. I thank both of my colleagues for their patience. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today in to recognize 10th anniversary of the disappearance of one of Minnesota's finest young men, Jacob Wetterling. 
   Jacob's abduction at gun point 10 years ago today from St. Joseph, Minnesota, has profoundly affected the lives of his family, but also the lives of the people of Minnesota and the entire United States. Jacob's family has endured a significant loss and has found  the strength to help other families survive tragedy. 
   Patty and Jerry Wetterling have spent the last decade raising awareness and influencing public policy through the formation of the Jacob Wetterling Foundation. The foundation works on a national level to eradicate the abduction and exploitation of children by educating, raising awareness, and responding to the needs of victim's families. 
   The Jacob Wetterling Foundation has worked with over 1,500 families in the search for their missing children, they have presented workshops and seminars to thousands of people, and have shared their message of personal safety and abduction prevention to countless parents and children. Thanks to the Wetterling Foundation sex offenders are required to register in all 50 States and law enforcement agencies can notify neighborhoods when a likely-to-re-offend sex offender moves there. 
   The Jacob Wetterling Foundation and the family of Jacob are perhaps most widely known for their message of hope, Jacob's Hope. Today we take a moment to think about Jacob Wetterling and the thousands of missing and exploited children and we pray for their safe return. Minnesota has an unsung hero in Patty Wetterling and the Jacob Wetterling Foundation, today we recognize, in great appreciation, the work they have done to save the lives of our children. 
   The Wetterling's have helped others in need while never giving up on Jacob's Hope. Today we salute this courageous family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from California. I shall be brief. First, I ask unanimous consent that I be included as an original cosponsor of the Durbin amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will describe the amendment one more time for those who are following this debate. I think it is important what the amendment says. It would ban all postviability abortions, except in cases where both the attending physician and an independent nontreating physician both certify in writing, in their medical judgment, the continuation of the pregnancy would threaten the mother's life or risk grievous injury to her physical health, with then a very strict and very clear definition of ``grievous injury.'' That is what the amendment says. 
   It would actually reduce the number of late-term abortions. This legislation fits in with the constitutional parameters set forth by the Supreme Court for government restriction of abortion. This legislation retains the abortion option for mothers facing extraordinary medical conditions such as breast cancer or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. At the same time, this amendment clearly limits the medical circumstances where postviability abortions are permitted. By doing that, this legislation protects fetal life in cases where the mother's health is not at high risk. 
   I came to the floor to speak about this amendment because I believe the Durbin amendment is, if you will, where I am kind of within me. This is what I believe. I think it makes sense to move in this direction. I think it makes sense to set up a strict standard. I think it is terribly important, when we look at postviability abortions, to have this test, to have this standard that has to be met. I am certainly not going to vote for an amendment or a piece of legislation which is so open-ended that where there clearly are the medical circumstances, the life of a mother is threatened, she can't go 
   forward with this procedure. 
   Here is why I come to the floor. I don't understand why those who want to see some change would not support this compromise. If you are interested, I say to my colleagues, in trying to make a difference, if you are concerned about some of these late-term abortions, if you think there ought to be a more stringent standard, then that is what this Durbin amendment says. If you are interested in passing legislation, if you are interested in making a change, if you are interested in passing a bill that isn't going to be vetoed by the President, if you are interested in passing legislation, as opposed to one more time going through this political war and making this a big political issue, then you ought to support this amendment. 
   There are some people from the other side who think this amendment is a mistake. They don't want to see this amendment pass. I think this amendment is reasonable. I think it is a compromise that makes sense. I think it deserves our support. 
   I actually will make this not at all personal in terms of what other Senators have said. It is simply not true that there aren't many people in the Senate who are not concerned, that don't share some of the concerns that have been reflected by speeches given on the floor. Sheila and I have three children, and we also were confronted with two miscarriages--6 weeks and over 4 months. Anybody who goes through that knows what this debate is all about. I also know it is about a woman, a mother, a family having their right to choose. I am very nervous about a State coming in and telling a family they are going to make this decision. But I also understand the concerns, especially the concerns--again, I go to the language about postviability abortions. But here we have an amendment that says it will ban this except in the cases where the attending physician and an independent, nontreating physician certify that, in their medical judgment, if you don't do this, then you are going to see a threat to the mother's life or she is going to risk grievous injury to her physical health. 
   Isn't that reasonable? I am so tired of the sharp drawing of the line and the polarization and the accusations and the emotion and the bitterness. Why don't we pass this amendment? It is a reasonable compromise. 
   For those who want to overturn Roe v. Wade, that is never going to happen. That is the law of the land. But if we want to make a difference and we have this concern, I think we should support this Durbin amendment. I come to the floor of the Senate to thank him for his effort. I am comfortable with this amendment. I think it would make a difference. I think it would meet some of the agonizing concerns that I and other Senators have. I am not about to support legislation that is so open ended that it makes no allowance at all for the health of a mother. That is my position. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Senator WELLSTONE before everyone. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Michigan for his comments. As I was listening to him talking about the history of the civil rights movement, it occurred to me that the civil rights movement was all about giving people of color, all Americans, the right to participate fully in the political life of our Nation. In many ways, I consider this issue to be every bit as important as that issue. 
   The civil rights movement was a movement that changed our country for the better, not just for people of color but for all of us. I think today many Americans believe they have been locked out and they can't fully participate in the political life of our Nation. I think the ethical issue of our time is the way in which big money has essentially hijacked politics, has corrupted politics in a systemic sense. Therefore, I think Senator LEVIN is absolutely right. 
   I will not speak very long. I have had a chance to speak many times during this debate. I believe, as a Senator, I should come here today and say this vote tomorrow morning is all about whether or not Senators who say they want this reform will maintain the commitment to it. It is quite one thing for those who are opposed to reform to filibuster this bill, but it is quite another thing for the rest of us to say: Well, you filibustered the bill; now we move on to other legislation. 
   If Senators want to continue to block this, then they will have to continue to block it. If, in fact, those of us who believe the most important single thing we can do right now is to at least get some of this big money out of politics in the case of soft money, the least accountable part of the giving and the taking, then I think we have to be willing to fight for it. 
   I hope the majority who voted for this legislation, who voted for what I think would be a historically significant reform, a step forward for our country in getting some of the big money out and bringing citizens back in, will be the same majority voting tomorrow. I think the vote tomorrow is really the critical vote. Either we essentially say to those who have filibustered and those who have blocked our  efforts, we will go away; it is over, or we will say, no, you don't move on to other legislation; we are going to continue to speak out and continue to debate and continue to work hard until we pass reform. 
   It is late in the day. The vote is tomorrow morning. But I am hoping that, through the media, citizens will understand what this vote is about tomorrow. I really believe people in the country want to see us make this change. 
   I have an amendment. I have a self-interest reason. I have an amendment I have introduced. I am not going to get a vote on this amendment if everybody goes away. Given how difficult it is to pass reform, given all the ways in which those vested interests who give the money, those who are the well connected, those who are the heavy hitters, those who are the well heeled seem to have too much influence here, and given the fact that those who have the power don't want the change, I think that is, in part, what we are up against. 
   The vast majority of the people in the country want the change. If we don't get this vote tomorrow and it is all over, I am absolutely convinced the energy is going to have to come from the grassroots level. 
   I have an amendment--and I will come back with it over 
   and over again--that basically says, if we are not willing to pass the reform legislation here, then let the people in our States decide. We are a grassroots political culture. Sometimes it is the local level, sometimes it is the State level, which is willing to light a candle and show the way. 
   If Massachusetts and Vermont and Maine and Arizona have passed clean money/clean election legislation, which basically gets all of the interested private money out and says to candidates, if you run for office, and it is voluntary, but if you will agree to spending limits, you can draw from the funding in this clean money/clean election fund so it will be a clean election; it will be clean money: it won't be interested money; it will be disinterested money, the elections will belong to the people in the States and the Government will belong to the people in the States and this is what we really ought to do. 
   If they want to do that, then my amendment says they ought to be able to apply it to Federal office as well. They ought to be able to say that is the way we want to elect Senators or Representatives from Minnesota or Kansas or Michigan or whatever State we are talking about. 
   If tomorrow we don't get the vote, which essentially says we refuse to back down, we don't have 60 votes yet, you people will have to continue to filibuster this and we are going to keep having amendments, we are going to keep having votes, and we are going to keep having debate. 
   The majority leader said we had 5 days of debate. We haven't had 5 days of debate. I am still puzzled why we didn't come into session until 1 today. I am not saying that in the spirit of whining. I am saying that in the spirit of some indignation and anger. We should have been in here this morning. We should have been debating the vote we were taking this afternoon on the McCain-Feingold bill. Senators should have had the opportunity to come and talk about why they were for it or why they were against it. It is not as if this is a small issue. 
   It is not as if this is a small issue. When we talk about how we finance our elections, when we talk about who gets to run for office, who wins office, what kind of issues we look at, and whether or not people believe in the political process, we are talking about whether or not we have a representative democracy. That is what we are talking about. 
   I argue that not only have we moved far away from the principle that each person should count as one and no more than one, but we are also getting to the point where we have Government of, by, and for a few people; Government of, by, and for those who can make the big contributions; Government of, by, and for just a tiny slice of the population. That is hardly a healthy, functioning, representative democracy. That is really what this debate is all about. 
   The problem is, we haven't had much of a debate. It is 6:20, and I am out here, and this is the end of the day, I gather. Tomorrow morning, we will have the vote. This debate has just begun. It should not be over. 
   Really, what I hope is that tomorrow we will vote against moving on to other legislation and there will be a lot of Senators out here. I will have this amendment that says let the people at the grassroots level determine this, and if people in our States want to get the big money out, and they want to have clean elections, and they want to have clean money, and they want to do it this way, then let them apply it to Senate and House races because, I am telling you, I think that is actually the way it is going to go. We won't get a chance to have an up-or-down vote on that amendment or many others that Senators have. We won't have people out here spelling out why they are for McCain-Feingold, or for other changes, what ways they want to improve it, what do they think we should do. We haven't had that full debate. 
   This issue deserves that debate. This is supposed to be the world's greatest deliberative body. But we haven't done the deliberation. What we have had is an effort to block this, and I think those who block this legislation are just hoping it will go away. The way it goes away is if those of us who have been for the reform just literally fold our tents and go away. Some of us around here are making the appeal that that should not happen. 
   I want to make one final point. And I am speaking as one Senator from Minnesota. I think for me, ever since I came here in 1990, this has been the issue. There are many issues I care about, but this is such a core issue. I find it hard to believe that all of us will not focus on economic justice, on making sure we have equal opportunity for every child, and on making sure we have environmental protection on this land, making sure we do something about the conditions in the inner city, making sure people in rural America have a chance, making sure family farmers get a decent price, making sure there is a good education for every child, making sure we speak to the bread-and-butter economic issues that affect the vast majority of families, making sure we have the courage to take on the big insurance companies, big oil companies, pharmaceutical companies, and telecommunication companies. 
   I think the way in which we finance campaigns and the influence of big money diverts our efforts, frustrates our efforts, and determines that we won't be able to make this 
   change. This is the core issue. This is all about--as Bill Moyers, a wonderful journalist, has said--the ``soul of democracy.'' That is what this debate is about. 
   If this debate is all about the soul of democracy, if whether or not we are going to pass some reform is all about the soul of democracy, if this is all about whether or not we are going to continue to have a real functioning representative democracy, that we are still going to have self-government, then I think we don't do this in 4 days; we don't go away. 
   Tomorrow morning, there is a critical vote. I am really hoping the majority who voted for the McCain-Feingold bill--a very modest effort, a stripped-down piece of legislation, with bare minimum reform, that is at least a step in the positive direction--those Senators who voted for that I hope will be the same Senators who will say: No, we are not going to let you take this off the agenda, this issue stays on the agenda of the Senate, and we want full-scale debate and an opportunity to introduce amendments, and we want everybody out here spelling out for the people in our States why we are for reform or why we think this current system is unacceptable. 
   The other point I will make is that, for those of you who are working around the country with public campaigns, for all of the locally elected leaders who have said, we are committed in our States to passing clean money/clean election legislation, I say go to it. What happened out here on the floor of the Senate serves notice that the way this change is going to take place is from the grassroots level. 
   What I want to do as a Senator is to support those efforts everywhere in the country. I want to meet with people doing the organizing. I want to continue to bring the amendment to the floor of the Senate which says, if  States want to go in that direction and apply the clean money/clean election initiatives to Federal races, they should be able to do so because I am convinced that you won't be stopped. It could be that the monied interests are going to be able to stop the forum here, but I don't think they are going to be able to stop it in Minnesota or in States all around our country. 
   We are going to have to do it at the grassroots level. We are going to have to bring more pressure from the grassroots level and have more of this legislation passed by the States. It will bubble up, and eventually--I certainly hope before I finish up my career in public service--we will finally pass sweeping legislation which not only will get a lot of the big money out of politics and a lot of people back into politics but will do something that is even more important, and that will be to renew democracy. 
   I look for the day when people in our country are engaged in public affairs, when we have a really good citizen politics. I look for the day when young people can't wait to run for public office and serve in public office. I just hope for the day, and dream for the day, when people have a really good feeling about public life, a really good feeling about politics, a really good feeling about political parties, a really good feeling about the debate on the issues. I long for that day. I hope for that day. I dream for that day. 
   One way or the another, I am hoping and dreaming that during my career in the Senate we will be able to pass this legislation. I hoped it would be now. Whether or not it will be now depends upon whether or not we will have a majority of Senators who will say tomorrow: We are not moving off this legislation, we are not going to let those who oppose reform take this question off the table; this will be the business of the Senate tomorrow, the next day, and the next day, and maybe the next day after that, until we pass reform. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. GRAHAM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a moment? Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Without losing his right to the floor. 
   In terms of order, I gather we are still rotating. I ask unanimous consent that on our side I be able to follow Senator KENNEDY. Senator LEVIN may come, in which case I can talk with him about how to proceed. I ask unanimous consent that on our side I be allowed to follow Senator KENNEDY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, as I said earlier, when Senator LEVIN came to the floor I would be pleased to yield the floor to him. Senator MCCAIN is here. I ask unanimous consent that Senator LEVIN be allowed to speak, that we then go in order--I understand Senator MCCAIN wants to speak, and I also know that the Chair, Senator VOINOVICH, seeks recognition--and I be allowed to speak after Senator VOINOVICH. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Then Senator VOINOVICH, and I would follow Senator VOINOVICH. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I don't yield the floor, but I will yield for an inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, first of all, let me say to my colleagues that I wanted to bring this amendment to the floor because I thought we should get on with business and have up-or-down votes on amendments that deal with this, I think, critically important question. 
   Let me start out with some context. This is an editorial from the New York Times, which actually was written Tuesday, October 20, 1998. The title is ``A Grass-Roots Message On Reform.'' 
   This deals with some of the victories that have taken place around the country; namely, two initiatives; one was in Massachusetts and one in Arizona. Of course, the Presiding Officer knows this all started with Maine, and then there was Vermont. I am talking about the clean money/clean election option. This is an editorial that talks about the momentum at the State level. 
   What has happened is, a good many States in our country have partial public financing. In Maine, Vermont, Massachusetts, and also Arizona, citizens of those States have decided that if people running for office will agree, it is on a voluntary basis, they are going for a clean money/clean election option. If a State desires a States rights option, they should be able to apply it to House and Senate races. I point this out to the Chair because I think it is all positive about her. 
   I notice in this paragraph, it says that it is no surprise that two of the seven Senate Republicans who challenged their leadership on this issue came from Maine, where similar public financing legislation was passed in 1996. It has been important to see what is happening at the State level. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. There was a piece also that David Broder wrote, on July 18, 1999, in the Washington Post, ``Federal Lag, State Reform.'' David Broder, a highly respected journalist, talks about the energy at the State level. He talks about the work of public campaigns and victories in Maine and Vermont and Massachusetts and Arizona. He also talks about some of the activity around the country, the energy of grassroots people, people in our States, at the State level, who say, don't tell us we don't care about good government; don't tell us we don't care about clean elections. They are passing these initiatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Finally, Madam President, I wish to read from a letter that asks Senators to support this amendment which would allow States to enact voluntary public financing legislation, commonly referred to as clean money/clean election initiatives regarding the election of Federal candidates in the States.  
   Historically, the states have been ``laboratories of reform.'' (a term coined by Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis) where innovative public policies have been created and tested. We believe, therefore, that the U.S. Senate, which has been a champion of states' innovative efforts in a number of policy efforts in recent years, should also support the right of individual states to determine the campaign finance system for their candidates for federal elections.  
   This letter goes on to talk about the great victories in Arizona, Maine, Massachusetts, and Vermont, and also goes on to cite a recent poll undertaken by the Mellman Group in Iowa--you know everybody is focused on Iowa with the Presidential races--pointing out that voters, 72 percent of Democrats and 63 percent of Republicans, support a system of voluntary full public financing and spending limits for campaigns. Not only did the support cut across party lines, but also there was support among ideologies within the political party. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, before I get started in arguing my brief to this amendment, I appreciated the comments of my colleague from Ohio. I appreciate the sincerity in which he made his case, but there are a couple of points on which I am in disagreement. I don't know if this amendment will come up. I certainly hope it doesn't. We have been focusing on soft money. I join Senator LEVIN in thanking Senators MCCAIN and FEINGOLD for continuing to be a strong voice for reform. I understand the pragmatism of their initiative. I think if we could ban soft money it would be a significant step for our country--a good step forward, not a great leap sideways. I thank them. 
   But I also want to point out for Senators, Democrats and Republican, that there is also the hard money issue. People who are listening--soft money/hard money--I think are wondering what all of this is about. 
   When I hear other Senators say we ought to raise the limit from $1,000 to $3,000, actuality it would be $2,000 to $6,000 counting primary and general elections. I want to point out a couple of figures. 
   This year, a spectacularly small portion--in the Presidential race--of U.S. citizens have contributed more than $200. So far this year, only 4 out of 10,000 Americans have made a contribution higher than $200 to the Presidential race. That is .037 percent. As of June 30, 1999, only .022 percent of all Americans have given $1,000 or more to a Presidential candidate. In the 1998 election, .06 percent of all Americans gave $1,000. That was roughly 1 in 5,000 citizens. 
   If you say money is speech, then I guess we know who the people are who are going to do all of the talking. I cannot believe that Senators--Republicans, Democrats--whoever they are, believe this will give ordinary people more confidence and more faith in the political process. 
   Again, what we have right now, when you are talking about contributions of over $1,000 this year, is .022 percent. Even over $200, it is only .037 percent. People do not have this kind of money. People can't afford to make these kinds of contributions. 
   Now what we are going to do is raise this from $1,000 to $3,000--actually $2,000 to $6,000, counting primary and general elections--and we are going to call this a reform. 
   I want to say to everybody that in my not so humble opinion, about 90 percent of the people in the country will not view this as reform. They will view this as a huge step backward, and they will view this as an effort to enable the wealthiest and high-income citizens to have even more influence and more say over the political process than they have right now. 
   This amendment is a States rights amendment to this underlying bill. I hope it will have broad bipartisan support. This amendment allows States to set up voluntary systems of full or partial public financing for Federal congressional candidates that involve voluntary spending limits on both personal and outside contributions as long as those systems otherwise are not in conflict with the Federal Election Campaign Act. Again, it is entirely up to the candidates. It is only if they agree to it. Clearly, we set a floor, which is the Federal Election Campaign Act.  
   Again, the letter I read to you was on the mark. States have been the laboratories for reform. This States rights 
   amendment would allow these laboratories to do this work but in a safe way because we make it clear that the Federal law remains the floor. No State can violate existing Federal law. No State can be in violation of existing Federal law. But if a State wants to do better--if Kentucky or Minnesota or Nebraska or Arizona--Arizona has already done better, and Minnesota tried --they want to apply some system of partial or full public financing to Federal offices, and they say: we are sick and tired of waiting for you all to pass this kind of legislation; we have the sneaking suspicion that those interest groups that have the power have too much say in the Senate and you are not going to pass it; let us have a go at it, then we ought to let States do so. 
   The Federal law is the floor. But it is a very low floor. We had this debate the other day. I don't want to go over again in great detail the definition of corruption. Let me simply say one more time that I, for one, I say to my colleague whom I have a lot of affection for, the Senator from Utah, that I am not going to make any arguments about a one-to-one correlation between fundraising and ``corruption.'' I am not going to make any of those arguments, but I will say that to me corruption is more serious than wrongdoing of individual officeholders. It is systemic. That is what we have. It is simply a case of those people who make these big contributions, the big soft money contributions and the big hard money contributions--they are the investors. They are the heavy hitters. They are the players. They are the ones who are well connected. They are the ones who have too much influence. And most citizens believe there is a connection between big special interest money and outcomes in American politics. 
   I am very sad to say that most citizens who believe that are right. People know that who has the money determines who wins and who has the money determines all too often what even gets put on the table in the first place. That is why people are turning away from the political process. That is why people are disillusioned. That is why people are disengaged. That is why people feel, I will say it again, if you pay, you play; if you do not pay, you don't play. That is what is going on. 
   Recent polls: 92 percent of all Americans believe special interest contributions buy votes of Members of the Congress--92 percent. Again, I say to colleagues, I am not agreeing with that kind of thing, but it is one of the reasons we should want to change this system. It really doesn't matter in the last analysis. If you get more money from oil companies, or labor unions, or environmentalists, or citizen groups, or financial institutions, the fact is people can always have that concern. Why don't we try to break that? 
   Eighty-eight percent of people believe those who make large contributions get special favors from politicians. Sixty-seven percent believe their own representatives in Congress would listen to views of outsiders who made major political contributions before they would listen to their own constituents' views. And then, finally, nearly half of all registered voters believe lobbyists and special interests control the Government. 
   I know the sponsors of the new McCain-Feingold bill have stripped the bill down in the hope that we are going to have the votes to achieve cloture and that we can move this long-stalled debate forward. I am in agreement. However, given the inability of Congress to agree on a lot of the incremental changes, which is important, let alone comprehensive reform--this is a stripped down bill. The authors will admit that. But they are saying, let's try to move something forward. Let's take a step forward that will lead to improvement. I agree. But what I am saying about this amendment is that it is also an ideal time to let States take the lead. We should not allow States to undermine Federal election law. They won't do that. But the law should also not be an artificial ceiling that prevents States from setting up systems of public financing such as Maine has done, such as Vermont has done, such as Arizona has done, and such as Massachusetts has done that would allow them to address this obscene money chase, 
   that allows them to address voter apathy; that allows them to address the kind of corruption that I have talked about--both actual or corruption that is perceived. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I actually have not finished laying out the amendment. 
   To my colleague from Utah, I was saying the huge percentage of people who believe this to be the case troubles me. I certainly do not believe that in a majority of cases of Senators whom I know, to the extent I know them--and I think I do--that that is the case, the ``money'' vote way. I don't think that is the link. 
   That is my sense, not in an individual way. 
   I have also argued, and the Senator has heard me say this many different times, I do think we have a more serious kind of corruption, and it is the imbalance of power. It is systemic. 
   Therefore, from my point of view, my colleague from Utah could be referring to one of two things: Either the statement I gave on the floor the other day in which I said we have to change this system in order to give citizens faith in this political process--and they have every reason to believe that; unfortunately, it is dominated by the few--or the Senator could be referring to this amendment. I hope not because all this amendment says is, whether one agrees or not with the perception, if people in Utah or people in Minnesota decide they want to put into effect comprehensive reform and cover our Federal elections, House and Senate races, as they are doing in the State elections, they should have the right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am yielding for a question. 
   Go ahead. I want to be clear I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased, for my colleague from Utah, to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, the first part of the question I appreciate. 
   The second part of the question I might have a slightly different interpretation. To the first part of the question I want the Senator from Utah to know--for that matter, the Senator from Kentucky--that I believe in public service, and I am honored to be here. 
   I reject the across-the-board denigration of public service and people in public service when and if anyone does  that. I haven't seen that done on the floor of the Senate. However, I hear people talking that way and I go out of my way to say to people that there are many Senators whom I have met, including those who have a very different viewpoint, who I think have a highly developed sense of public service, who believe in what they are saying, and believe in what they are doing. 
   If the Senator were to ask me whether or not I tried as a Senator or teacher to speak to this notion that there is all this corruption and wheeling and dealing and everything is cynical and everything is corrupted, absolutely I do because I don't think that is true. 
   On the second point, I think my time is well spent supporting the McCain-Feingold effort, and for that matter, supporting even more comprehensive reform. I do believe the money chase and the mix of money and politics--especially big money politics--has undercut what I hold most dear, which is this very noble and grand, wonderful, over-200-year experiment in self-rule that we have had in this country. 
   I think this is a debate about representative democracy. I believe we have to change the way we finance campaigns if we are to have a healthy, functioning, representative democracy. 
   I thank my colleague for his question. 
   Madam President, if the American people, according to survey after survey, are going to say this system of financing is out of control and they want an overhaul, then we owe it to them to get out of the way and let the States go ahead and move forward and do what we as a Congress have been unable to do. Just because the Senate can't move on comprehensive reform doesn't mean we should tie the hands of States. My colleagues can agree or disagree with what States will do, but give them the option. 
   Let me give the legal context. My own State of Minnesota attempted to set up a system of public financing, a system for Federal candidates, 9 years ago in 1990 when the State legislature passed the law offering partial public financing to candidates, the congress of Minnesota. Unfortunately, the Federal Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit struck down Minnesota's law in 1993 in Weber v. Heaney. The court ruled because the Federal Election Campaign Act did not specifically allow States to create this kind of voluntary public financing program, then FECA prohibited it. 
   The amendment I am introducing corrects that by adding one simple sentence to FECA which specifically allows States to set 
   up voluntary public financing programs for the election of their own members to the House or the Senate as long as no program violates any provision of the current Federal Election Campaign Act. 
   The court said, given what we are dealing with, given existing law, we cannot go forward. If we change the law, it could very well be a different court decision. In other words, if a State wants to create a public financing fund and give its congressional candidates the option; it is a voluntary option of financing their campaigns wholly or partially with public money rather than the private contributions, then that State would be able to do so, again, provided there are no violations in the FECA provisions. 
   I want to emphasize this amendment makes these programs strictly voluntary, as the system of public financing for the Presidential campaign is voluntary. Some States are already moving in this direction with regard to State and local elections. There is a lot of energy for this. Twelve States already offer partial public financing to candidates for State offices. In fact, one of the most advanced is in the State of Kentucky. In addition, four States have gone even further and recently passed full or nearly full public financing systems for their State elections--Maine, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Senator MCCAIN's State, the State of Arizona. 
   Local and State elected officials, along with citizen activists in nearly 40 States around the country, have launched the Elected Leadership Project 2000. And this is an all-out effort for comprehensive reform. 
   I say to colleagues, if the people in our States want to strengthen American democracy, if they have the gumption and they have the citizen politics to go forward with real reform that would get so much of the big money out of politics--that would really create a level playing field, that would reinforce people's faith in the elections, that would mean people could say these elections belong to us, this political process belongs to us--and that is why there has been so much support for the clean money/clean elections initiative--then my amendment says to Senators: Let them do it. You might not agree. But if your State wants to do what Maine has done and Maine says we want to apply this to Congress as well, then Maine should be able to do it; Minnesota should be able to do it; Kentucky should be able to do it, Utah should be able to do it. 
   This legislation goes to the root cause of a system which is founded on private special interest money, and it cures the disease. 
   I hear colleagues talking about the need to tighten up campaign finance laws. The problem is not what is illegal; the problem is what is legal. The real problem is that most of what is wrong with this current sick system is perfectly legal. It is perfectly legal, those huge amounts of money, hundreds of thousands of dollars in soft money contributions that Senator FEINGOLD and Senator MCCAIN are trying to prohibit and which prohibition too many Senators are trying to block--huge amounts of personal, individual contributions that really, basically, very-high-income and wealthy people are able to contribute but the vast majority of people are not--all of which determine who gets to run, who gets elected; all of which determine the people who have the most access. 
   We have moved so far away from the principle that each person should count as one, and no more than one, it is absolutely frightening. We do not have elections any longer; we have auctions. 
   Why don't we get the big interested money out? We had this debate about corruption. Again, maybe it is only the appearance of corruption. But my friend Phil Stern, who is no longer alive, once wrote a book, ``The Best Congress Money Can Buy.'' He made the following argument in the book. I just thought of it. Bill Moyers, in a speech he gave called ``The Soul Of Democracy,'' made the same argument. 
   Imagine what it would be like--maybe some people had a chance to watch the ball games last night--imagine what it would be like if umpires or referees received huge contributions from the players of the different teams before the baseball game or before the football game. Would you have any confidence that they would be rendering impartial decisions? You might be worried that they would not be. In a way, we have something similar to that here. We make all these different decisions about health care and health insurance reform, about telecommunications legislation, banking legislation, where we are going to make budget cuts, labor legislation--across-the-board. At the same time we receive all these contributions, we are the referees; we are the umpires; we are going to make the decisions. It looks terrible. It looks awful. It looks awful to people in the country. 
   What I am saying is that if, in fact, we want to give people an opportunity to have more confidence in their political process, then I think we ought to go forward and we ought to agree to this amendment. 
   I have two final points. I have been waiting for a long time. I will be done, but I want to make two final points. 
   First of all, I have heard it said that people do not care. 
   I do not think that is true at all. I think people have reached the conclusion that when it comes to their concerns, they are of little matter in the Congress. I think people have reached the conclusion that the influence of private wealth and power is strongly felt; that it shapes the acts and policies of government; that money crawls the halls of the Capitol and the halls of the White House. 
   No one in politics today can deny the shaping influence of money on public acts. Few people who contribute vast sums of money to political campaigns do it just out of profound ideological beliefs. They do it in part because they do have some hope for gain. It is an understandable ambition for those individual figures, but one to which public figures should not yield their larger commitment to all Americans. That is what this debate is about, whether or  not we as public figures maintain a larger commitment to all the people in our country, not just the people who have the financial wherewithal to make these contributions. That is what this debate is about. 
   In my view, until we take the big money out of politics, our historic drive for more opportunities for citizens, for more justice, for a better life for all the people, for improving the standard of living for all the people in our country, for really investing in children's lives, for making our country a better America, that drive will continue to be diverted and frustrated and ultimately denied. 
   This issue is the core issue, and this amendment I have introduced simply says to my colleagues we ought to, if we are not going to go forward with comprehensive reform but at the State level our States want to have clean money/clean elections, and they want to apply it on a voluntary basis to races to the House of Representatives and the Senate, then they ought to be able to do so. 
   I do not see why we would not have strong bipartisan support for this amendment because, frankly, I think, along with the efforts of Senator FEINGOLD and Senator MCCAIN--Senator MCCAIN and Senator FEINGOLD--the energy for the reform is going to come at the grassroots level; it is going to come at the State level. That is what this public campaign has been about all across this country. That is what the victory in Arizona was about. That is what the victories in Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine were all about. That is what people in my State tried to do 9 years ago. Let's just pass a law that would enable States to move forward. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may I make an inquiry? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have a question; that is all it is. 
   I ask my colleague from Kentucky, for those of us who want to debate this larger question, how long will you continue with this attack of Senator MCCAIN on the floor? How much longer is that going to happen? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I call for regular order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My colleague, Senator DURBIN, is in order. I ask unanimous consent that he be allowed to speak now. I have the floor, but I don't want to jump ahead of him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think we will alternate sides. 
   I ask my colleague from Tennessee, if we are going to rotate, could I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to follow the Senator from Tennessee? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I don't think I will, but I have been here since early this morning. It depends upon how long my colleague from Utah wants to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I do not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Before the Senator from Tennessee leaves, I want to say I don't think he was on the floor too long, and I think his comments were very important. I appreciate what he had to say. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent, as we go back and forth, that on the Democratic side Senator BOXER be allowed to speak when it comes back to our side, followed by Senator CLELAND. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have some prepared remarks. I don't know how much I will pay attention to it because I have been listening to the debate about corruption. Let me try a different definition, which my colleague from Kentucky, who is very skillful, may want to challenge. But this is at least the way I look at this question. 
   The kind of corruption I think we are talking about is actually much more serious than the wrongdoing of an individual office holder. That is not what I will focus on. I gather that is what some of my colleagues have focused on and questioned. I say it is much more serious. I say it is a systemic corruption, and it is a systemic corruption when there is a huge imbalance between too few people with so much wealth, so much power, so much access, and so much say, and the vast majority of people in the country who don't make the big contributions, aren't the heavy hitters, aren't the investors, and who believe that if you don't pay, you don't play: I think that is the corruption. 
   I think the corruption is that the standard of a representative democracy that says each person should count as one, and no more than one, is violated. If any Senator--Democrat or Republican--should go into any cafe in Minnesota, or around the country, and try to make the argument that, as a matter of fact, because of this system we have--which I think is really a failure when it comes to any standard of representative democracy--if we were to try to argue, no, it is not true that people who are the investors and make these big contributions don't have too much access and too much say, I think 99 percent of the people in the country would say you are not credible. Of course, that is what is going on. Of course, people make contributions for a variety of different reasons, one of which is to have access and a say. 
   I say to my colleague from Utah, I think it is a bipartisan problem. We don't need to talk about individual cases. And I understand the comments he has tried to make. I see it on both sides of the aisle. Look, both parties will talk about special gatherings we will have with the business community here, or the high-tech community there, or the labor community there. We will have gatherings where big contributors come. That is what is done. We have big dinners, and we are told to come to the dinners. What is the purpose of those dinners? These dinners are with the big contributors. We are told to come, to be there. It seems as though, if you don't come, you have no interest. 
   Both parties give these lectures at caucuses to all of us. And we go. The reason we go is, we believe, given the system we have, people have to raise money, and if you don't come and you are not up for reelection, you believe, when you are up--you hope, given this rotten system we have--there is enough money 
   raised for you, so now you go to help other people. 
   But the truth of the matter is that the vast majority of people in the country don't come to these dinners. The vast majority of people aren't invited to special gatherings and special sessions. The people who are invited by both parties are the big contributors. They are the investors. 
   Come on. You are not going to try to argue on the floor of the Senate that we don't have a problem with systemic corruption, where we have just too few people who make these big contributions, who, as a result, perhaps have too much access and too much say. 
   Let me go out on a limb. It is not just a question of perception. The vast majority of people in our country today believe their concerns about themselves and their families and their communities are of little concern in the corridors of power or the Halls of the Congress in Washington, DC. Do you know what. We have given them entirely too much justification for having that point of view. They are not necessarily wrong. 
   I am not going to have somebody, all of a sudden, ask me to yield for a question and take my head off because it looks as if I am making an individual accusation. I am not going to do that. But I will tell you something right now. I am fully prepared, as a Senator from Minnesota and a political scientist, to tell you I see certain people, who also happen to be the big contributors, who have way too much access here. I don't know whom we think we are kidding. 
   When we debated the telecommunications bill, the anteroom outside the Chamber was packed with people. I could not find truth, beauty, and justice anywhere. Everybody was representing billions of dollars here and billions of dollars there. And when we had a debate about the welfare bill--whatever you think about the welfare bill--where were the poor mothers and children? Where was their powerful lobby? They were nowhere to be found.  
   When we decide where we are going to make deficit reduction and make the cuts, and when we do tax policy, and when we do a lot of other policy, it just so happens that certain folks and certain interests seem to be much better represented than others. I think that is true. I think we can make it better. I think we can do a lot better job of reaching the standard that each person should count as one and no more than one. 
   Certainly, we have corruption, but it is not the wrongdoing of any individual office holder that I know of; it is systemic. When you have this frightening imbalance of power between the elites, the few who make the big contributions and are so well connected, and the majority of the people who basically feel locked out--and they have every reason to feel locked out--that is the problem. 
   I smile at the proposal, which may be one of the amendments to this bill, to raise the contribution limits. I think it is about two-tenths of 1 percent of the top population, or less, who can afford to make a contribution of $1,000 or more. I am not supposed to look up in the galleries, and I certainly do not invite comment from people in the galleries--that would go against the rules--but I bet most of the people in the galleries observing our debate would probably think to themselves: We don't make $1,000 contributions. 
   The fact is, two-tenths of 1 percent are able 
   to make those kinds of contributions. Some people want to now raise it to $3,000. If you want to further skew the imbalance of power, where some people are counted on even more to make the big contributions and most regular people feel left out, then pass that kind of amendment. We will look like fools to people in the country. They will say: My God, the Senate took up reform and today passed an amendment that raised the individual contribution from $1,000 to $3,000--actually from $2,000 to $6,000 through the primary and general election. Most people will scratch their heads and ask: This is the Senate's definition of reform? I don't know, but I think people are being foolish if they don't think that campaign finance reform is an idea--with apologies to Victor Hugo--whose time has long passed. 
   We have seven Republicans supporting this piece of legislation, the McCain-Feingold legislation. It will take only eight Republicans more to assure that we can pass a bill and to stop this effort to block all reform. I hope there will at least be eight Republicans, if not more, who will find the courage to basically vote for reform, who will find the courage to no longer be a part of this effort to block reform, to expand democracy. 
   I want to say to my colleagues, Senator MCCAIN and Senator FEINGOLD, in the spirit of friendship and honesty, this bill, in its present form, is a mere shadow of its former self. I don't think it lights up people around the country. I don't think it is going to bring people to the reform barricade. I don't think it is going to galvanize people or cause people to rise up and really put the pressure on Senators. I wish it were more comprehensive. That is what I am saying. I wish it were much more comprehensive. 
   I think we would be much better off talking about clean money and clean elections and getting as much of this interested big money out of politics and bringing as many people back into politics as possible. I think issue advocacy ads are phony. 
   While I have the floor of the Senate to talk about my experience, especially in 1996, I worry about the ways in which money will shift from one source to the other. I think we can do better, although I will tell you that if we could ban the soft money, the unregulated money, the under-the-table money, the money where there is essentially no accountability in this system, we would still be taking an important step forward. 
   I want to express my fear, and then I want to express my hope. 
   Fear: What could happen is that none of the amendments to strengthen this bill will pass. But there will be a number of amendments to what is a very water-downed version, a very almost timid piece of legislation, but it represents a step forward. I would be proud to support it. But you will get some additional amendments raising the amount of money people can contribute. Gosh knows what else. Then we in the Senate will announce that we did campaign reform for the new millennium, and let's go forward with our special interest parties. 
   I am going to worry that we may end up getting a bill that will have some fine sounding acronyms, such as ``PEOPLE,'' or something like that, which actually won't represent hardly any step forward at all. 
   On the other hand, we have this bill right now, and if we can just deal with the soft money ban, we would be making a real step forward. 
   I want to speak a little bit to this whole question of freedom because it has come up a lot and is raised by a number of colleagues. I want to simply draw from an important book by Eric Foner called, ``The Story of American Freedom.'' He talks about what freedom has meant to people in our country over the years. Freedom is way beyond the kind of definition that we have been given of it. Freedom means the ability to participate. Freedom means to have a place at the table. The definition of freedom of speech is larger than the absence of a regulation that would say we are going to try to put up some kind of framework that doesn't undercut representative democracy. 
   If you think about it, union organizers in the 1930s and working people were talking about freedom to be more involved in the economic decisions that affected their lives. That was the kind of freedom on which they were focused. 
   Then we had a fight for political freedom which began with our own American Revolution. Also, an important part of our history was the emancipation of slaves during the Civil War, then the passage of the 13th, 14th, and 15th amendments--again, a broad definition of freedom; in the 1950s and 1960s, freedom which had to do with desegregating our schools and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 1965. Each time the kind of freedom we were talking about was the freedom to participate in the political life of our country, or the economic life of our country, or the community life of our country. 
   Let me share with you the words of Dr. Gwendolyn Patton at a recent conference at Howard University sponsored by the National Voting Rights Institute. She said:  
   We thought we had scored a people's victory when we ushered in the 1965 Voting Rights Act. Our movement of great numbers of ``street heat'' feet wrought a structural change that fundamentally expanded democracy. But we know now that it wasn't enough. Ridding the system of private, special interest money is the unfinished business of the voting rights movement. This movement, like that one, is a revolutionary movement--it is not just a tactical question. It is an ideological struggle, not only for black folks, but for all Americans. We are engaged, to borrow Lincoln's words, in ``a great civil war.''  
   She goes on to say, that while much was achieved through voter registration of African Americans, Latinos, and others.  
   As a result of these victories we entered the political arena by the millions--but as passive voters. Soon we began to realize that we had to become active participants by running for office if we were going to enact laws and implements policies that would make a change for the better in our lifetime. That's when we discovered another barrier, and while it's not as directly life threatening, it's certainly as formidable as any we have faced before. That's the barrier of money.  
   Dr. Gwendolyn Patton is talking about basically what we have right now, which is a wealth primary. What we are really saying is the very question of who gets to run, the very question of who is likely to get elected, the very question of what issues quite often get considered, the very question of what legislation we are able to pass, the very question of who has access to the political process and who doesn't, is all too often determined by money. The vote is undermined by the dollar. Our elections have become auctions. 
   Some of my colleagues want to talk about raising the contribution limits. Let me just give you some figures. 
   This is a picture of those who contribute the vast majority of money to candidates under the current contribution limits. Believe me, this is a picture that is not a broad slice of America. It is overwhelmingly white, it is overwhelmingly male, and it is overwhelmingly wealthy. These are people who have contributed over $200, and some colleagues want to go from $1,000 to $3,000.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Arizona, I thank him for his question. I would be pleased to be challenged by anybody on the floor on this comment. I made a comment that I think is quite similar to what the Senator from Arizona has been trying to say, that we have a systemic corruption that is, unfortunately, far more serious than the wrongdoing of individual office holders--far more serious. It is a corruption when you have a huge imbalance of power between too few people who have so much wealth and money, who make these large contributions, and who have so much more access and influence, versus the majority of people who have concluded that either you pay, and therefore you can play; but if you do not pay, you don't play. They feel locked out. They feel left out. They are disillusioned. They do not believe the political process belongs to them. 
   That is a fundamental corruption of representative democracy. And I say to my colleague it violates the most important principle--that in a representative democracy each person should count as one and no more than one. That is being undermined. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would not want to name names, and I don't need to name names because the kind of corruption that I am talking about goes way beyond any one officeholder. It is systemic; it is endemic; it is structural; and it is very serious. The fact is big money has hijacked representative democracy. It undercuts representative democracy, and it violates the very principle that each person should count as one and no more than one. 
   Therefore, I would be proud to be included in the ranks of my colleague from Arizona as a Senator who is not naming names. 
   Let me go forward and just present some figures. 
   A study conducted of donors in the 1996 election found the following characteristics of such donors. 
   Ninety-five percent--these are people who contributed over $200--were white; 80 percent were male; 50 percent were over 60 years of age; 81 percent had annual incomes of over $100,000. 
   The population at large in the United States had the following characteristics: 
   Seventeen percent were nonwhite; 51 percent were women; 12.8 percent were over 60; and 4.8 percent had incomes over $100,000. 
   Eighty percent of the people who make contributions of over $200 have incomes over $100,000. And that represents exactly 4.8 percent of the population. 
   If the hard money contributions are increased, as some of my colleagues have suggested, then the picture is going to become even more skewed. 
   If money equals speech, as some have suggested, we can clearly see who is doing all the talking. If money equals speech, then we can clearly see who is doing all the talking. At least those folks are being listened to. The hopes and the dreams and the concerns of the vast majority of the American people are going unheard because the bullhorn of the $1,000 contribution drowns them out. 
   For those who want to raise the limits, why make the bullhorn bigger and louder? Why give greater access and more control to those people who already have too much access and too much control? 
   Again I issue this challenge in anticipation of what might happen. If what we do on the floor of the Senate in a couple of days is raise the contribution level from $1,000 to $3,000--even given the sometimes too low opinion they have of the Senate--people in the country will become even more disillusioned; they won't believe it. I certainly hope we don't do that. 
   I want to talk about the distrust and the dissatisfaction. Mr. President, 92 percent of all Americans believe special interest contributions buy votes of Members of Congress--92 percent; 88 percent believe those who make large contributions get special favors from politicians; 67 percent think their own representatives in Congress would listen to the views of outsiders who made large political contributions before they would listen to their own constituents' views; nearly half of the registered voters in our country believe lobbyists and special interests control the Congress. 
   I will go out on a limb and not antagonize, but perhaps prompt, some response from colleagues. All politicians love children, but we do precious little for them. One of the reasons we have done so little for or about poor children in America--who, by the way, constitute the largest group of poor citizens in our country--might be that they and their parent or parents don't contribute much by way of big contributions and don't have much access. 
   One of the reasons we have done very little to close the gulf between the rich and the poor, one of the reasons we have done so little to combat homelessness, and one of the reasons we have done so little to respond to the concerns of hard-pressed Americans even in these flush economic times is that these are the people who don't pay and don't play. 
   Perhaps the same argument can be made why we have been so generous in providing special breaks for oil companies; we have been so generous in making sure the tobacco industry continues to rule; we have been so generous in making sure we dare not take on the pharmaceutical companies, we dare not take on the insurance industry. 
   With all due respect, I don't know who is kidding whom, but I call this a very serious kind of corruption. I will keep using the word. It is not the wrongdoing of individual office holders, but we have developed a severe, serious imbalance of power in a representative democracy so that the very few in the country dominate the political process and all too often have their way and get exactly what they want and what they need, and the vast majority of people think their voice is not heard. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will not draw one-on-one conclusions about each and every one of those provisions, and I will not make the assumptions that Senators vote one way or the other each and every time because of campaign contributions that a particular Senator may receive, but the overall bias is so much in favor of those large interests that are able to control and invest so much of the money in the political process. That is the problem. 
   One can allow on any one vote for Senators to honestly disagree, and we can't each time say it is because of money, but overall, I don't know anybody in the world who could argue that we don't have a serious problem. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have deliberately used the word ``corruption''  about 10 times because I think that is exactly what we are talking about: systemic corruption, not the wrongdoing of individual officeholders but the kind of corruption that exists when there is such a huge imbalance and few people have too much wealth and power and the majority of the people are left out of the picture. 
   Let me conclude in two different ways. One, I make a political science point; and, two, I want to make a personal point. I think what we are talking about, in the words of my hero journalist, Bill Moyers, is the soul of democracy. My premise is that political democracy--and I am pleased to be challenged on this if my colleagues choose--has several basic requirements. 
   First, we need to have free and fair elections. It is very hard to say we have them now. That is why people stay at home on election day. That is why they don't participate in the process. Incumbents outspend challengers 8 or 10 to 1 on average. Millionaires spend their personal fortunes to buy access to the airwaves, and special interests buy access to the Congress, all of which warps and distorts our democratic process. 
   That is what is going on. A millionaire can run and spend their own money--and many do, and there are millionaire Senators who are great Senators. Again, it is not a personal point I am making. However, most people ought to be able to run for office even if they are not a millionaire. If you are an incumbent--and I certainly hope this debate is not, in the last analysis, a debate between ins and outs--if you are an incumbent and you are an ``in,'' this system is wired for incumbents. 
   We can go out and raise a lot of money. It is much harder for challengers to raise that money. This is a system that warps and distorts the democratic process, and we do not have free and fair elections. 
   The second criterion: A representative democracy requires the consent of the people. The people of this country, not special interests-big money, should be the source of political power. Government must remain the domain of the general citizenry, not a narrow elite. 
   We have two-tenths of 1 percent of the population that makes contributions of $1,000 or more. I don't know what percentage that is of the overall money we raise--60 percent? I could be wrong, but it is really skewed. 
   Let me put it this way. When I was teaching a class about the Congress, I remember I would talk about the Senate. I did not know people, and I have had a million pleasant surprises. In another speech, another debate, I will talk about all the pleasant surprises. But I made the argument: If you look at who the people are in the Senate, by background characteristics, by their income, by who they are, they certainly are not truly representative of the American population. But the more serious problem is, if you then look at the people back home, the constituents who are the relevant constituents, who can most affect our tenure or our lack of tenure, they are the people with the money. They are the people who can make the contributions so we can then put the ads on television in these hugely expensive, capital-intensive campaigns. The vast majority of people in the country know that and they feel left out. We should hate it. 
   I hope it is OK to say this about my conversation with my colleague from California. Jump up if I am wrong. We were talking about this. I think all of us should hate this system. We should all hate it. On the one hand, I say to myself: I get this. I know why a lot of colleagues do not want any reform, even this modest step of this legislation, which gets at a lot of the unregulated money, the soft money. I say to myself: I can figure this out because it is wired for incumbents. This is not a debate about Democrats versus Republicans, although all the Democrats are going to support this bill, and I hope we will have enough Republicans to pass it and stop the people who are blocking it. Maybe this is a debate between ins and outs and the ins don't want to change it. They don't want to change it because it is wired for us. 
   But then I think to myself: This cannot be because it is degrading getting on the phone calling strangers, people you do not even know. I don't know what is worse, I say to my colleague from California. I don't know what is worse. 
   I am having a little fun on the floor right now. I am on a roll, so I have to talk a little longer. 
   I don't know what is worse, when I call someone up, a perfect stranger, and I call them five times and they never return the call, or I call them up and they say no--I don't know whether that is worse, or if it is worse when they make a contribution, but I don't know them and they don't know me and I don't know why they made a contribution. I am not sure which is worse. 
   The only thing I know is it is torture. It is torture to have to get on this phone and beg and beg and beg for money. It is degrading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be pleased. Can I make one brilliant point before I take my colleague's question? 
   On this ins versus outs, I think all of us ins should be supporting the McCain-Feingold legislation and more, for one other reason. The other reason is, when we are up and it is our cycle, we can't do a good job of representing people because every day we have to spend 2 and 3 hours on the phone. We miss debate that we should be involved in; we miss committee work we should be involved in; we miss a lot of work that we should be doing, representing the people of our States. We should want to change this for that reason as well. 
   I will be pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am speechless. That doesn't happen that often. 
   Mr. President, I want to finish up. I said that three times. I will finish up. 
   The last criterion is political equality. Everybody ought to have an equal opportunity to participate in the process. That means the values and preferences of citizens, not just those who get our attention through the large contributions, should be considered in the debate. One person, one vote; no more, no less; one person, same influence. Each person counts as one, no more than one. That is the standard. That is what it is all about. That precious principle, that precious standard of representative democracy, is being violated. 
   I have spoken about why I am going to oppose with all my might efforts to raise the limits on contributions. I want to speak about one amendment that I will introduce, which I think is a good amendment, I say to my colleague from Arizona. It is a States rights amendment. It holds harmless--no State certainly could go below the standards we have in Federal campaign finance law, but it would allow States which want to move toward clean money, clean elections, to do so. Arizona has done that; Massachusetts has done that; Maine has done that; Vermont has done that. There are going to be other votes in other States. It would say to those States: If you want to get much of the interested money out and you want to have clean money and clean elections and the people in your State vote for it, you should be able to apply it in Federal elections. 
   If we are not at the point yet where we have the political will so that we can pass more far-reaching reform, I say people in our States, if they are willing to apply this to Federal elections, should be allowed to do so. There is a lot of steam and there is a lot of momentum and a lot of enthusiasm for the clean money/clean election option. I think it is a very important one. 
   Finally, I have to say this because I forgot to mention this earlier. This is the part of the McCain-Feingold legislation that I think is perhaps most important. I remember the 1996 election. I think these issue advocacy ads are a nightmare. I think all of us should hate them. I very much would like to apply this to independent expenditures as well. I want to be clear about it. But in Minnesota, it was a barrage of these phony issue advocacy ads, where they do not tell you to vote for or against; they just bash you and then they say: Call Senator So-and-so. 
   They are soft money contributions with no limits on how much money is  raised, no limits on how the money is raised. It could be in $100,000 contributions, $200,000 contributions, and make no mistake about it, this is in both parties. These big soft money contributors have a tremendous amount of access and way too much influence in both parties. 
   So with one stroke, it would be a wonderful marriage. We could get some of this poison politics off television. We could get some of these phony ads off television. We could build more accountability, and we would make both political parties, I think, more accountable to the public. 
   This debate is about whether or not something we all value and love, which is our representative democracy, is going to continue to be able to function. It is the most important debate we are going to have. That is the core question, the core issue, the core problem. I hope there will be a vote for McCain-Feingold. I hope we can strengthen it. I hope those who oppose reform and continue to block efforts will not be successful. I think people in our country are counting on us to vote for democracy. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague, Senator MCCAIN--I am actually going to take about 15 minutes at the most--if he wants to precede me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Under the unanimous consent agreement, I have up to 30 minutes. I do not think I will need to take that time. I want to comment on the conference report. I thank the Senator from Missouri and the Senator from Maryland for their work. I am going to vote for this conference report. 
   Given the constraints they have been working under, and the framework they had to work within, they did a yeoman job, and I thank them. 
   I want to make three comments and I think I can be brief. First of all, on the veterans' health care budget, it is true; we went up by $1.7 billion above the President's request. But if you look at the last 3 or 4 or 5 years of flatline budgets, which means really the veterans' health care budget was not even keeping up with inflation, we are essentially still not very far ahead. I believe the veterans organizations, AMVETS and VFW and Paralyzed Veterans of America and Disabled American Veterans, were right in their independent budget, which called for us to bump up the President's request, which was inadequate, by $3 billion. 
   We had a sense-of-the-Senate vote on that, where every single Senator voted for that recommendation. I think we are going to have to do much better next year. I think this was progress. I thank my colleagues for their fine work, but it is my honest to goodness judgment this is underfunded; there are some real gaps. In particular, we have the challenge of a veterans community that is growing older. How are we going to provide the care for this community? We still have the challenge of too long a waiting list and too long a distance for people to drive. 
   I believe we had an amendment on the floor, with Senator JOHNSON, to go up $3 billion. I wish we had because I think there are still going to be some unmet needs. That was my first point. 
   The second point is one about which I feel very strongly. Senator MIKULSKI, in particular, has been very helpful. But it is the same moving picture shown over and over again, this time just on a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. 
   For about 5 or 6 years, I have been talking about the importance of getting some compensation for atomic  veterans. These are veterans who went to States such as Utah and Nevada. They went to ground zero. Our Government asked them to be there. Our Government never told them they were in harm's way, didn't give them any protective gear. It is horrible what has happened to them. The incidence of cancer is quite understandable. The incidence of illness and disease, not just for these veterans but for their children and even their grandchildren, is frightening. It is scary. You cannot do dose reconstruction. There is no way they can prove their case. 
   I cannot understand why the Senate and the House of Representatives cannot find it in its collective heart a way to provide some compensation for these veterans just as we did with Agent Orange with the Vietnam vets. We were never able to prove one way or the other the connection between Agent Orange and lung cancer. We said we are going to make this a presumptive disease. We are going to argue the presumption is this was caused by Agent Orange. 
   I have had amendments passed and then they have been taken out in conference committee. This time I wanted to get a good vote on a sense-of-the-Senate amendment because I could not legislate on this appropriations bill. I got 75 or 76 votes 
   which said, at the very minimum, we would include three diseases: lung cancer, colon cancer, and tumors of the brain and the central nervous system. 
   There are several thousand of these veterans. They are older. They feel so betrayed. This is the classic example of our Government having lied to these veterans. I cannot understand, for the life of me, why a sense-of-the-Senate amendment that is all it was--should have been taken out in conference committee. 
   I thank my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, for their support. But I want to say on the floor of the Senate, next year--I think I can get the support from Senator MIKULSKI and Senator BOND and I hope everybody here--we will be ready. One way or another, we are going to get this through. It has been 6 or 7 years. I do not think we can say to these veterans we do not have the resources; we cannot give you any compensation. If we say that, we are just going to say: We don't care what happened to you. We don't care what happened to you. We don't care what happened to you. It has been going on year after year after year. I wanted to express my outrage that we cannot do better. 
   I will be back next year. Hopefully, we can get better support and get this done in authorization and appropriations. It is a matter of justice. It has been a shameful history. What we have done to these people is a shameful chapter in the history of our country. I hope we in the Senate and the House can find it in our hearts to provide them with compensation. It will mean a great deal to these veterans and their families. 
   Finally, I thank both colleagues. I do not think they could do any better with these appropriations bills, given the context. But the other issue, because this is VA housing, is, for example, the vouchers in a State such as Minnesota. It does not help at all. We have no vacancies. The fact is, with the limits on what a family would be eligible for, right now the housing is so high that what housing is there is above what the voucher plan will cover. It just doesn't help us at all. 
   I thank my colleagues because they are trying to do everything they can, everything humanly possible. But I am predicting there are going to be a lot of articles over this next year about housing prices. I hope they will be front page stories because for so many families, they just cannot find any affordable housing. It is just not there. The vouchers don't help because it is not there. 
   I will give one example and then finish up. Sheila and I do a lot of work with women who have been victims of family violence, domestic violence. They go to shelters. That is the first courageous step, to get out of that home. It is a dangerous place. 
   Then they are in the shelters. Then where else do they go? There is no affordable housing. In fact, a lot of the battered women's shelters cannot even take some of the battered women because other women and children who cannot afford housing and are homeless actually call shelters and say they have been battered because they are looking for shelter. 
   I understand the importance of the vouchers, but in many of the communities in Minnesota and around the country, it is not going to help at all. There is no housing. It is not available, so the voucher does not help. Housing has become so high that the voucher, which covers the difference between the fair market value and 25 or 30 percent of their monthly income, will not do any good because the fair market value is above the value of what the vouchers will cover. 
   We have a real crisis. Both my colleagues know this. It is unbelievable how expensive housing is. The lack of affordable housing for families in our country is a huge issue and not just in the cities, but also in the suburbs and in rural areas as well. 
   Next year, we are going to get ourselves out of the straitjacket and the framework and make more of the investment. 
   Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI did a yeoman job. They did exceptional work. I thank them. I wanted to lay out these three points. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me, first of all, repeat what I said on the floor yesterday, which is that I am going to support this emergency package, both the financial emergency package and the disaster relief emergency package. 
   I am going to do so because, may I say for the Record, Tracy Beckman tells me this will mean $620 million in AMTA payments to Minnesota, and this will be important for some 60,000-plus producers. I hasten to add that most of this money to farmers will end up being used to pay back bankers. 
   I also am going to support this because I want to get some assistance out there. I don't think we are going to have enough with this $8.7 billion package. I don't think there is enough for disaster relief. 
   Clearly, our farmers in the Northeast are saying we don't figure in. And in northwest Minnesota where we have had so much wet weather and some farmers haven't been able to get a crop in or much of a crop in, I fear there won't be enough assistance. 
   But I think that when we are at least talking about something we can pass. We need to get this to the President and have President sign it in order to get some of this financial assistance out to our communities within the next couple of weeks. For this reason, I am going to support it. I also want to say that I hope to have to never vote for such a package again. 
   I believe these disaster relief bills are becoming a disaster. I think they are a complicated way of acknowledging the fact that we have a failed agricultural policy. Who would ever have dreamed that we would have spent over $19 billion now to keep farmers going post-Freedom to Farm bill. This doesn't make a lot of sense. 
   The producers in my State, the farmers in my State, much less the rural communities, the small businesses that are affected by this, the implement dealers, and those who sell tools all say: What we want is a decent price. 
   I want to make it real clear that I wish--though I appreciate the work, I don't think there is any Senator on the floor who has any unkind words to say about Senator COCHRAN, publicly or privately, because I think he is held in such high regard--I wish we were doing this through a somewhat different mechanism because I fear that too much of the support will be in reverse relation to need. I think we will have yet another supplementary emergency package to deal with, especially disaster relief because there is not enough in here. 
   In any case, we ought to deal with the root of the problem. The family farmers in my State of Minnesota and in the rural communities that have been so affected by this economic convulsion in agriculture--it is a depression in agriculture--I want to see a  new policy. The Freedom to Farm bill has become the ``freedom to fail'' bill. I do not hear very many Senators talking any longer about staying the course. We have to change the course of agricultural policy. 
   I make a plea on floor of the Senate that before we finish, before we adjourn, before we leave Washington, before we go back to our States, we pass legislation to change farm policy; that we pass some legislation to deal with the price crisis; that we pass legislation to give our farmers and our producers some leverage in the marketplace so they can make a decent price and so they can support their families. 
   The plea or the cry in rural America from family farmers is nothing more than to say for all you people who believe there should be a family wage, or a living wage, and a parent or parents ought to be able to make enough of a wage to support their families, well, those of us who produce the food and the fiber for families in this country ask for the same thing. 
   That is what this is all about. 
   I want to translate this crisis in personal terms. 
   Lynn Jostock is a Waseca, MN, dairy farmer. He tells his story:  
   I have four children. My 11-year-old son Al helps my husband and I by doing chores. But it often is too much to expect of someone so young. For instance, one day our son came home from school. His father asked Al for some help driving the tractor to another farm about 3 miles away. Al was going to come home right afterward. But he wound up helping his father cut hay. Then he helped rake hay. Then he helped bale hay. My son did not return home until 9:30 p.m. He had not yet eaten supper. He had not yet done his schoolwork. We don't have other help. The price we get at the farm gate isn't enough to allow us to hire any farmhands or to help our community by providing more jobs. And it isn't fair to ask your 11-year-old son to work so hard to keep the family going. When will he burn out? How will he ever want to farm?  
   Gary Wilson, an Odin farmer, says:  
   Received the church newsletter in the mail. What's normally to the entire congregation had been addressed to only farmers. The newsletter said farmers should quit farming if it was not profitable. If larger, corporate-style farms were the way to turn a profit, the independent farmers should let go and find something else to do. ``What he doesn't understand is that the farmers are his congregation. If we go, he won't have a church.''  
   Oh, how right Gary Wilson is. 
   The point is, if we continue with this failed policy, we are going to lose a generation of producers. We are going to see this convulsion in agriculture play out to the point where we have a few large conglomerates that control all phases of the food industry. Believe me, if you have just a few landowners versus a lot of family farmers who live and buy in the community and invest in the community, there won't be the support for the church. There won't be the support for the synagogue. There won't be the support for the small business. There won't be the support for the school system. 
   Darrel Mosel is a Gaylord farmer.  
   Farming for 18 years. When he started farming in Sibley County, which is one of Minnesota's largest agricultural counties, there were 4 implement dealers in Gaylord, the county seat. Today, there are none. There's not even an implement dealer in all of Sibley County. The same thing has happened to feed stores and grain elevators. Since the farm policies of the 1980s and the resulting reduction in prices, farmers don't buy new equipment they either use baling wire to hold things together or quit. ``The farm houses have people in them but they don't farm. There's something wrong with that.''  
   That is a direct quote from Darrel. 
   John Doe--this is a farmer who wants to remain anonymous:  
   This family has gone through a divorce and the father and three children are operating the farm. The father has taken an off farm job to make payments to the bank and has his 12 year old son and 14 year old daughter are operating the farming operation, unassisted while he is away at work. The neighbors have threatened to turn him in to human services for child abandonment and so he had to have his 18 year old daughter quit work and stay at home to watch the two younger children. 
   The 12 year old boy is working heavy farm equipment, mostly alone. He is driving these big machines and can hardly reach the clutch on the tractor. It's this or lose the farm.  
   I could go on and on, but I will not. I want to repeat what I have said, which is that I am going to support this emergency assistance package. But all it does, at best, is enable farmers to live to farm another day. The truth of the matter is it isn't going to help the farmers who it needs to help the most. 
   In addition, I am going to support it because at least it gets some assistance to some families. It doesn't do anything for the small businesses. Most important of all, farmers simply will not have any future. 
   Ken and Lois Schaefer from Greenwald, MN, will not receive much assistance. Ken and Lois are one of the few small, independent hog operations still remaining, with roughly 400 hogs. They raise feeder hogs and sows. Lois has an off-farm job to make ends meet. Ken is considering an additional job. This is common. People who farm have jobs off the farm; it is unbelievable stress on the family. There is no choice if they are to survive. 
   A recent hog operation opened near the Schaefer farm and is seeking employees. Ken's neighbor started working part time for the hog factory. Ken and Lois will not receive much assistance; there is not near enough livestock assistance. However, Ken and Lois do not necessarily want assistance. What they want is a decent price for their hogs. 
   They ask the question: How can it be that we as hog producers are facing extinction and these packers are in hog heaven? How can it be that we as hog producers are facing extinction and the IBPs and the Cargills and the ConAgras are making record profits? 
   Several weeks ago, I spoke about the crisis that is ravaging rural America. I told my colleagues about farmers I visited in Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, South Dakota, and Texas. Today, I want to talk about why there is this convulsion, why every month more and more family farms are put on the auction block; why every month more and more family farmers are forced to give up their way of life; why they lose their work; why they are losing their hope; and why they are sometimes losing their communities. 
   We ought to act now. I have said to the majority leader three or four times that I want an opportunity to bring to the floor of the Senate some legislation that will alleviate the suffering. I want to talk about this today. I want the opportunity to have an up-or-down vote on a moratorium on any further mergers or acquisition of any huge agribusiness. We have a frightening concentration of market power. These big conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table and are driving out family farmers. At the very minimum, we can put into effect the moratorium and have a study so over the next 18 months we can come up with legislation while this moratorium is in place that will put some competition and free enterprise back into the food industry, giving our family farmers, our producers, a fighting chance. 
   Several weeks ago I spoke on the floor at some length about the crisis that is ravaging rural America today. I told my colleagues about some of the farmers I've visited with in Minnesota, in Iowa, in Texas, and around the country who are on the brink of financial disaster because of record low farm prices. 
   Farmers from all around the country were in Washington, DC, that week because they know that the future of the family farm is at stake. Every month, more and more family farms are put on the auction block. Every month, more and more family farmers are being forced to give up their life's work, their homes, and their communities. We must act now. 
   In Minnesota, about 6,500 farmers are expected to go out of business this year. That's about eight percent of all farmers in my state. In northwest Minnesota, which has been hit especially hard by this crisis, about 11 percent are expected to go under. An August 1999 survey of Minnesota County Emergency Boards reported that more Minnesota farmers are quitting or retiring with fewer farmers taking their place; more Minnesota farm families are having to rely on non-farm income to stay afloat; and the number of Minnesota farmers leaving the land will continue to increase unless and until farm prices improve. We must act now. 
   Today I want to take a step back and look at the larger picture. I want to examine what is going on in American agriculture and why; what it means for farmers and for us as a society; and, most importantly, what we can do about it. 
   I want to talk about record low farm prices. I want to talk about record high  levels of market concentration and the absence of effective competition in almost every major commodity market. I want to talk about the failure of our antitrust enforcement authorities to do much of anything about this. 
   I want to talk about the need for Congress to take immediate action to restore competitive markets in agriculture and give farmers more equal bargaining power against corporate agribusiness. And I also want to make the case for a moratorium on large agribusiness mergers and acquisitions, effective immediately, which I have recently proposed along with Senator DORGAN. 
   In my travels around Minnesota and around the country, I've found that many people are not even aware of the crisis afflicting rural America today. Even fewer have any idea to what extent market concentration and anti-competitive practices have substantially eliminated competition in agriculture. So let me just start by ticking off a few statistics that some of my colleagues may find surprising. 
   In the past decade and a half, an explosion of mergers, acquisitions, and anti-competitive practices has raised concentration in American agriculture to record levels. 
   The top four pork packers have increased their market share from 36 percent to 57 percent. 
   The top four beef packers have expanded their market share from 32 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four flour millers have increased their market share from 40 percent to 62 percent. 
   The market share of the top four soybean crushers has jumped from 54 percent to 80 percent. 
   The top four turkey processors now control 42 percent of production. 
   49 percent of all chicken broilers are now slaughtered by the four largest firms. 
   The top four firms control 67 percent of ethanol production. 
   The top four sheep, poultry, wet corn, and dry corn processors now control 73 percent, 55 percent, 74 percent, and 57 percent of the market, respectively. 
   The four largest grain buyers control nearly 40 percent of elevator facilities. 
   By conventional measures, none of these markets is really competitive. According to the economic literature, markets are no longer competitive if the top four firms control over 40 percent. In all the markets I just listed, the market share of the top four firms is 40 percent or more. So there really is no effective competition in the processing markets for pork, beef, chicken, turkeys, ethanol, flour, soybean, wet corn, dry corn and grain. 
   This development is not entirely new. In some sectors of agriculture, there was already considerable horizontal concentration at the turn of the century. Pork and beef slaughtering and processing were dominated by Wilson, Armour and Swift. That's why Congress passed the Packers and Stockyards Act in 1921. 
   But now, with this explosion of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, marketing agreements, and anti-competitive behavior by the largest firms, these and other commodity markets are becoming more and more concentrated by the day. 
   Recently the Justice Department approved a modified merger between Cargill and Continental. Just a few weeks ago Smithfield Foods, a major meat processor, announced the acquisition of Murphy Family Farms, a giant hog producer. DuPont is buying Pioneer Hi-Bred International. ADM is buying more and more of IBP. Among seed companies and input suppliers, there has been more than $15 billion worth of combinations in the last three years. 
   In my hands I have a monthly listing of new mergers, acquisitions, and other agribusiness deals through March 1999. Let me just read a sample of some of the headlines to give you a sense of how rapidly this concentration is taking place. March 1999: Dupont to buy Pioneer. Farmland-Cenex to discuss combining grain operations. Smithfield to acquire Carroll's. 
   February 1999: Three California dairies preparing for merger. December 1998: Monsanto completes Dekalb purchase. Smithfield gains control of Schneider. Cargill buys Bunge's Venezuelan units. November 1998: Cargill buys out rival grain operation; deal boosts firm's hold on market. Dow Chemical completes purchase of Mycogen. IBP buys appetizer business in expansion move. And so on. 
   The effect of this surge of concentration is that agribusiness conglomerates have increased their bargaining power over farmers. When farmers have fewer buyers to choose from, they have less leverage to get a good price. Anybody who has been to an auction knows that you get a better price with more bidders. Moreover, when farmers have fewer buyers to choose from, agribusinesses can more easily dictate conditions that farmers have to meet. And fewer buyers means farmers often have to haul their production longer distances, driving up their transportation costs. 
   In addition to this horizontal concentration among firms in the same line of business, we are also seeing another kind of concentration. It's called vertical integration. Vertical integration is when one firm expands its control over the various stages of food production, from development of the animal or plant gene, to production of fertilizer and chemical inputs, to actual production, to processing, to marketing and distribution, to the supermarket shelf. 
   The poultry industry is already vertically integrated, by and large. 95 percent of all chicken broilers are produced under production contracts with fewer than 40 firms. Now the same process is occurring in the pork industry. Pork packers are buying up what's called captive supply--hogs that they own or have contracted for under marketing agreements. If these trends continue, grain and soybean production may soon be vertically integrated just like poultry. 
   The problem with this kind of vertical concentration is that it destroys competitive markets. Potential competitors often never know the sale price for goods at any point in the process. That's because there never is a sale price until the consumer makes the final purchase, since nothing is being sold outside the integrated firm. It's hard to have effective competition if prices are not publicly available. Today there is essentially no price discovery, and therefore no effective competition, for chicken feed, day old chicks, live chicken broilers, turkeys and eggs. If vertical integration of pork and dairy continues at the current pace, we can expect much the same in those industries. 
   Vertical concentration stacks the deck against farmers, as we can see clearly in the case of the rapidly consolidating hog industry. An April 1999 report by the Minnesota Land Stewardship Project found that:  
   Packers' practice of acquiring captive supplies through contracts and direct ownership is reducing the number of opportunities for small- and medium-sized farmers to sell their hogs; 
   With fewer buyers and more captive supply, there is less competition for independent farmers' hogs and insufficient market information regarding price; and 
   Lower prices result.  
   Even the USDA's Western Corn Belt hog procurement study showed price discrimination against smaller farmers. Smaller farmers were paid lower base prices, lower premiums, and they were given little or no access to long-term marketing contracts. 
   The combined effect of these two different kinds of concentration is to put enormous market power in the hands of a handful of global agribusiness giants. Not only do these conglomerates dominate processing for all the major commodities, but the same firms appear among the top four or five processors for several different commodities. ConAgra, for example, is among the Top Four for beef, pork, turkeys, sheep, and seafood, and it's number five for chicken broilers. To make matters worse, many of these firms are vertically integrated. Cargill, for example, is among the Top Four firms trading grain, producing animal feed, feeding hogs and beef, and processing hogs and beef. 
   Farmers clearly see the connection between this concentration and lower farm prices. Leland Swensen, president of the National Farmers Union, recently testified that  
   The increasing level of market concentration, with the resulting lack of competition in the marketplace, is one of the top concerns of farmers and ranchers. At most farm and ranch meetings, market concentration ranks as either the first or second in priority  of issues of concern. Farmers and ranchers believe that lack of competition is a key factor in the low commodity prices they are receiving.  
   Well, no wonder. How else can you explain the record profits that the large agribusiness conglomerates are racking up, at the same time low prices are causing a depression for family farmers? IBP's earnings in 1998, for example, were up 62 percent. In the second quarter of this year, they were up a whopping 126 percent. Packing plants, food processors and retailers are all reporting record profits. 
   While corporate agribusiness grows fat, farmers are facing lean times. The commodity price index is the lowest since 1987. Hog prices are at their lowest since 1972. Cotton and soybean prices are the lowest they've been since the early 1970s. Feed grain prices are the lowest they've been since the mid-1980s. Food grain prices are at the lowest levels since the early 1990s. Agricultural income in the mid-Western states is predicted to fall between 15 and 60 percent this year. 
   Current prices are so low that many family farmers are lucky to stay in business. Market prices are lower than their cost of production. The value of field crops is expected to be more than 24 percent lower in 1999 than it was in 1996--42 percent lower for wheat, 39 percent lower for corn, and 26 percent lower for soybeans. But farmers' expenses aren't falling by the same amount. In fact, they're not falling at all. Farmers can't cash flow if their selling prices are falling through the floor while their buying prices are shooting through the roof. 
   It all comes down to market power. Corporate agribusinesses are using their market power to lower prices, 
    without passing those price savings on to consumers. The gap between what consumers pay for food and what farmers get paid is growing wider. According to the USDA, the so-called farm-to-retail price spread--the difference between the farm value and the retail price of food--rose 4.7 percent in 1997. From 1984 to 1998, prices paid to farmers fell 36 percent, while consumer food prices actually increased by 3 percent. 
   In other words, the farmer's share of farm profit is falling. The farmer share of every retail dollar has fallen from 50 percent in 1952 to 25 percent today. By the same token, the profit share of farm input, marketing, and processing companies is rising. The agribusiness conglomerates claim that this is because they're putting more ``added value'' into food products. Actually, it looks like they're taking additional value out. 
   Some people have blamed low farm prices on other factors, such as declining exports. That's a big debate that will have to wait for another day. But let me just say this. We can hardly expect export growth to translate into higher prices for American farmers if the multinational agribusinesses still have enough bargaining power to keep farm prices down. 
   As Jim Braun, a third-generation Iowa farmer, wrote recently, ``Unfortunately, increased exports do not necessarily mean more money for farmers. IBP has doubled exports since 1990 and quadrupled profits in 1998, while it destroyed family farmers by paying below Depression-era prices for hogs. If Cargill, ConAgra, or ADM, the three major grain processors and exporters, could sell corn overseas for $20 per bushel, they could still pay American farmers below the cost of production simply because they have the power to do so.'' 
   What we do know for sure is that low farm prices are driving thousands of farmers into bankruptcy, and concentration is helping to depress prices. That's reason enough why we should take immediate action to address the problem of concentration. But there are plenty of other reasons why we should be concerned about concentration in agriculture. 
   First of all, concentration is bad for the environment. When large-scale corporate feedlots replace family-size farms, they create large amounts of waste in a relatively small space. That puts enormous strain on the local ecology. The lower prices resulting from unequal bargaining power also put pressure on farmers to abandon careful soil and water conservation practices. 
   There's another reason why we should be concerned about concentration in agriculture. The price effects of unequal bargaining power are tremendously destructive of community and family values. This connection was made explicit in an infamous 1962 report by the Committee for Economic Development, whose members included some of the biggest food companies. 
   Amazingly, the Committee had this to say about community and family values. They recommended investment ``in projects that break up village life by drawing people to centers of employment away from the village ..... because village life is a major source of opposition to change.'' They went on to say, ``Where there are religious obstacles to modern economic progress, the religion may have to be taken less seriously or its character changed.'' 
   So the largest agribusinesses were afraid that ``village life'' and religion would stand in the way of modern economic progress. But what exactly did they mean by the term ``modern economic progress"? It turns out they meant the bankruptcy and forced emigration of two million farmers. That's what their report recommended. These agribusiness giants were advocating lower price supports for farmers in order to lower farm prices. And the primary benefits of lowering farm prices, they argued, would be to lower input prices for the food companies, to increase foreign trade, and to depress wage levels by putting two million farmers out of business and dumping them into the urban labor pool. 
   There's a third reason why we should be concerned about concentration in agriculture. As the Committee for Economic Development report makes clear, this concentration is harmful to the economic development of rural communities. It's been estimated that when a farm goes under, three to five jobs are destroyed. For every six farm failures, one rural business shuts down. 
   The reason is pretty simple. When production is controlled by more non-local corporations, profits don't get reinvested in the community. When family businesses operate local farms, elevators, and grocery stores, they plough profits right back into other local businesses. Those revenues circulate locally three or four times, creating what's called a multiplier effect. But there's no multiplier effect when non-local corporations drain profits out of the community. Rural communities become little more than a source of cheap labor inputs for agribusiness multinationals--to be purchased as cheaply as possible in competition with low-wage labor overseas. 
   Obviously, this kind of concentration is not good for the social and economic health of rural communities. According to the Nebraska Center for Rural Affairs, virtually all researchers have found that social conditions deteriorate in rural communities when farm size and absentee ownership increase. Studies have shown that communities surrounded by large corporate farms suffer from greater income polarization--with a few wealthy elites, a majority of poor laborers, and virtually no middle class. The tax base shrinks and the quantity and quality of their public services, public education, and local government declines. 
   John Crabtree of the Center for Rural Affairs sums it up this way: ``Replacing mid-size farms with big farms reduces middle-class entrepreneurial opportunities in farm communities, at best replacing them with wage labor....... A system of economically viable, owner-operated family farms contributed more to communities than systems characterized by inequality and large numbers of farm laborers with below-average incomes and little ownership or control of productive assets.'' He concludes that ``Societies in which income, wealth, and power are more equitably distributed are generally healthier than those in which they are highly concentrated.'' 
   I think this last point is true not only of rural communities, 
    but of our country as a whole. ``Societies in which income, wealth, and power are more equitably distributed are generally healthier than those in which they are highly concentrated.'' In other words, we all do better when we all do better. When we have a thriving middle class, including a thriving family farm sector, our economy performs better. Our democracy functions better. 
   The idea that concentrations of wealth, of economic power, and of political power are unhealthy for our democracy is a theme that runs throughout American history, from Thomas  Jefferson to Andrew Jackson to the Progressive Era to the New Deal. But this idea was perhaps most forcefully expressed by the People's Party of the late 1800s, sometimes called the Populists. 
   The People's Party embodied popular disgust with rampant monopolization and concentration of economic and political power. The Populist platform from the 1892 nominating convention in Omaha declared, ``The fruits of the toil of millions are boldly stolen to build up colossal fortunes for a few, unprecedented in the history of mankind.'' People's Party founder Tom Watson thundered, ``The People's Party is the protest of the plundered against the plunderers.'' 
   In the Gilded Age of the late 1800s and the Progressive Era of the early 1900s, the danger of concentrated economic power was widely recognized and hotly debated. The Populists argued that a free and democratic society cannot prosper with such concentration of power and inequalities of wealth. As the great Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis said, ``We can have democracy in this country, or we can have wealth in the hands of a few. We can't have both.'' 
   The Populists were reacting to a concentration of wealth, economic power, and political power that was remarkably similar to what we've experienced in the late 1900s. Today, despite wage gains for low-income workers over the past couple years, inequality in America has reached record levels. 
   According to reports by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the Economic Policy Institute, the gap between rich and poor is greater today than at any time since the Great Depression. CBO data shows that after-tax income is more heavily concentrated among the richest one percent of the population than it has been since 1977. CBO projects that in 1999 the richest 1 percent of Americans (2.7 million people) will receive as much after-tax income as the poorest 38 percent (100 million people) put together. 
   At the same time, we are witnessing the biggest wave of mergers and economic concentration since the late 1800s. Not only in agriculture, but in media and communications, banking, health care, airlines, energy, hi-tech, defense, you name it. There were 4,728 reportable mergers in 1998, compared to 3,087 in 1993; 1,529 in 1991; and a mere 804 in 1980. And as Joel Klein, head of Justice Department's Antitrust Division, has pointed out, the value of last year's mergers equaled the combined value of all mergers from 1990 through 1996 put together. 
   Former Speaker Newt Gingrich, the political scientist E. J. Dionne, and the philosopher Michael Sandel, among others, have all drawn parallels between the conditions of today and the heyday of monopoly power in the 19th Century. In the Gilded Age, the welfare of farmers, rural communities, and small businesses was sacrificed for the economic interests of burgeoning bank, railroad, and grain monopolies. Today, the welfare and future of our family farmers and rural communities is being sacrificed to the economic interests of near-monopoly global agribusiness. 
   While the Sherman Act was written by a Republican senator and signed into law by a Republican president, in 1896 William McKinley and the Republicans openly sided with the titans of industry and decided to write off rural America. They felt that the ``social reformers, agrarian rebels, church leaders, and others who challenged the authority of the industrial giants'' were being hopelessly sentimental, as E.J. Dionne puts it. The McKinley Republicans presumed that monopoly interests were on the right side of history, of economic progress, and of civilization. 
   Interestingly enough, Populist demands were initially rebuffed with many of the same arguments that have become conventional wisdom today. The Populists were told that monopoly power was the legitimate outcome of free markets, that concentration was the inevitable result of technological progress, that concentration represented economic efficiency, and that there were no viable alternatives. 
   These arguments are no truer today than they were at the turn of the century. The current trend towards concentration in agriculture is not the product of the ``free market,'' nor of Adam Smith's invisible hand. For starters, with no effective competition in the major commodity markets, these can hardly be held up as models of free market competition. What they really stand for is market failure. 
   In any event, these near-monopolies were not created by the free market at all. They were created by government, just like the railroad monopolies of the 19th century. Instead of Adam Smith's invisible hand, we are seeing the hand of multinational food conglomerates, in the words of Iowa farmer Jim Braun, ``acting inside the glove of government.'' 
   The role of government in creating and fostering these monopolies is probably most obvious in the context of intellectual property rights, such as patents and copyrights. These are monopolies by definition. The whole point of intellectual property protection is to prevent competition. Without that patent protection, there would be a lot more companies selling seed and other inputs to the farmer, there would be a lot more competition, and the farmer would pay much lower prices. And because of that protection, intellectual property rights generate outsized profits and market power. 
   My point is not that these patent protections are a good thing or a bad thing. The answer will probably depend on a lot of different factors in each particular case. My point is that they are not an example of the free market at work. On the contrary, these are monopolies formally granted by the government. 
   The issue here is not just competition for the patented goods, but barriers to competition for the entire agribusiness industry. If one of these conglomerates engages in high-handed behavior, new businesses could normally be expected to enter the market and steal its market share. But smaller competitors can't enter the market if the barriers to entry are too high. And intellectual property rights are a mighty high barrier. 
   In fact, one of the motors driving consolidation of agribusiness today is biotechnology. Soon biotech companies will be able to control the entire food production chain with their genetics. Already Monsanto, DuPont, and Novartis are gobbling up smaller biotech companies' market share, patent rights, and customer base. And biotech patent monopolies on plant and animal genomes will be a nearly insurmountable barrier to market entry in the future. 
   Professor Bill Heffernan, who was commissioned by the National Farmers Union to study these trends, projects that the entire agricultural sector will soon consolidate into a small number of ``food chain clusters,'' revolving around intellectual property firms. The number of these clusters will be limited by the small number of firms with intellectual property protection and by extremely high barriers to market entry. 
   A handful of vertically integrated food chain clusters are already poised to control food production from the gene to the supermarket shelf. Professor Heffernan identifies three existing food cluster chains: Cargill-Monsanto, ConAgra, and Novartis-ADM. He predicts that another two or three will eventually develop. Smaller seed firms, independent producers and other independent businesses will face a dilemma. Either they join one of alliances to obtain inputs and sell their production, or they go out of business. 
   The emergence of these titanic food conglomerates is not the inevitable outcome of technological progress, but of conscious policy choices. Our government-funded research programs, for example, have chosen to fund expensive technologies that generate greater sales for the largest agribusinesses and diminish the role of farmers in the production of food. 
   Government support for private-sector monopoly over the ``terminator gene'' is a good example of the bias inherent in these choices. The terminator gene is a gene that can be inserted in plants to make their seeds sterile. It forces farmers to buy new seeds every year instead of reusing their own. 
   This is not a neutral technology. It raises the income of the seed suppliers and intellectual property holders by forcing farmers to pay more for seed. As Lee Swenson of the National Farmers Union recently has testified, ``Biotechnology and the terminator gene have put the farmer at the mercy of  the food cluster for seed to plant crop. If the firms in the processing stage of the cluster require specific genetic material and the farmer cannot get that seed, the farmer has no market access.'' Yet this technology was developed with support from none other than the USDA. 
   While choosing to invest in technologies such as the terminator gene, the government has generally failed to invest in technology that would benefit the family farmer. Research dollars have not been directed towards technologies that would reduce farmers' costs for capital or inputs, for example, or help them produce higher value products. Dr. Neil Harl of Iowa State University also calls for more government support of cutting edge seed varieties that should be made available to smaller seed companies, helping them compete against the emerging food clusters. 
   Instead, Congress has chosen to cut funding for publicly available research in biotechnology. One seed company CEO, when asked what farmers could do to resist the growing vertical integration of agriculture, said, ``Absolutely nothing, because these are property rights owned by the companies, so the farmer is going to become more and more at the mercy of the few who own intellectual properties. Again, it goes back to the shortsightedness of funding basic research in such a parsimonious fashion. Without government funding, companies are going to fund research and control it.'' 
   Economic concentration is not dictated by economic efficiencies any more than it is by free markets and technological progress. In the late 1800s, John D. Rockefeller made the classic argument for the economic efficiencies of monopoly power. He claimed that Standard Oil's monopoly was good for the public because it created efficiencies that could be passed along to the consumer in the form of lower oil prices. That argument wasn't compelling then, and it's not compelling today. 
   First of all, efficiency is not what's driving the trend towards concentration in agriculture. Research by Iowa State University economist Mike Duffy shows no further economies of scale beyond 600 acres of row crops and about 150 sows. But the most rapidly growing farming operations in Iowa are much larger than that, so economies of scale cannot be driving their expansion. 
   One Iowa farmer writes, ``Today efficiency and cost of production have nothing to do with determining which farmer will survive as a food producer.'' The most important factor is probably the special relationships the integrating firm has with other businesses. In industries undergoing vertical integration, especially, farmers who don't have special relationships with feed or slaughtering firms often have to pay more for inputs and have more problems selling their product. And smaller farmers are being forced to sign production contracts with input suppliers to obtain new technologies they need to stay competitive. 
   Another critical factor determining who survives in these non-competitive markets is deep pockets and market share. Conglomerates with multiple holdings can cross-subsidize one of their operations with profits from another operation, making it harder for smaller, less diversified firms to compete. They can also drive local non-diversified firms out of business by excess production or processing of a commodity, driving price down below the cost of production. 
   These cross-subsidies are increasingly taking place on a global scale. A firm like Cargill, which has operations in 70 countries, can absorb losses in one country so long as it can 
   cross-subsidize with revenues from another country. Because they control supplies in more than one country, these multinationals can also drive prices down to the detriment of farmers in both countries. 
   Even if concentration did produce economic efficiencies, such efficiencies wouldn't concern us if they weren't passed on to the consumer. But we've already seen that the agribusinesses' price windfalls are not being passed on to the consumer. That's because they are able to exploit their economic power to increase profit share at the expense of farmers. 
   So it's simply not true that there are no viable alternatives to continued economic concentration. Concentration is not dictated by free markets, by technological progress, or by economic efficiency. It's occurring because of government-created monopolies, biased choices in technology policy, special relationships, and cross-subsidies. And it's occurring because our choices in farm and trade and antitrust policies. In the end, concentration is driven by policy choices that could be made differently. 
   Consider all the policy choices that have brought American agriculture to where it is today. When we paved the way for family farming with the Homestead Act and the defeat of slavery, that was a policy choice. When we enacted parity legislation in the 1940s, leading to an increase in the number of farmers, expansion of soil and water conservation practices, and a decline in farm debt, that also was a policy choice. 
   When we cut loan rates in the 1950s and 1960s to lower farm prices, that was a policy choice. When we interlinked domestic commodity markets with lower world prices through trade agreements, that was a policy choice. When we eliminated the safety net for farmers with the Freedom to Farm Act, that was a policy choice. 
   When we invest public resources in technology that tilts the scales against family farmers, that is a policy choice. When we fail to fund enough economists at GIPSA or enough antitrust staff at Justice and the FTC, that is a policy choice. And when we encourage global concentration through our trade policies while allowing corporate agribusiness to destroy competitive markets here at home, that too is a policy choice. 
   Now the policy choices before us are clear. We can take legislative action that will help preserve family-based agriculture. Or we can continue on our present course, which is leading unmistakably in the direction of contract farming, rural depopulation, and global oligopoly. 
   In August, the Omaha World Herald carried a story about one economist's projections for the future of American agriculture. ``Farmers who stubbornly insist on being their own boss will end up in the economic scrap heap,'' he said. This economist described a trend toward ``polarization of farms by size, with the number of large farms growing at a rapid pace''; ``separation of land ownership from land production, with more and more people owning land as an investment and leasing property for production''; and contract farming, which will change the role of farmers from that of an independent producer to skilled tradesman.'' 
   Can any Senator honestly tell me this is the vision he or she supports? Do we really want a world of contract farming, in which farm laborers are stuck with one-sided contracts and inadequate price information and struggle to get out from under mountains of debt? Do we really want a world in which our rural areas become depopulated because family farmers have to leave the land? Do we really want a world in which vertical integration and contract farming shift ever more bargaining power to agribusinesses? 
   Do we really want a world in which management decisions are made by a small group of corporate executives, removed from the land thanks to new precision farming technologies? Do we really want a world in which titanic food chains face little pressure to pass on price savings to the consumer? 
   Do we have any say in this matter? I think we do. We don't have to accept this vision of the future if we don't want to. We can propose a different one, and we can fight for it. These are all policy choices. 
   These choices are made more difficult by the immense power of corporate agribusiness--not only economic power, but political power as well. As Lee Swenson of the NFU recently testified,  
   The remaining firms are increasing market share and political power to the point of controlling the governments that once regulated the firms. Some of the biggest corporations have gotten tax breaks or other government incentives. ..... Corporate interests have also called on the government to weaken environmental standards and immigrant labor protections in order to allow them to reduce productions costs.  
   The bigger these agribusinesses get, the more influence they have over our public policy choices. The bigger they  get, the more money they have to spend on political campaigns. The bigger they get, the more lobbyists they can afford to amass on Capitol Hill. The bigger they get, the more likely they are to be named special U.S. trade representatives, like the CEO of Monsanto. The bigger they get, the more likely public officials will be to confuse their interests with the public interest, if they don't already do that. And the bigger they get, the more weight they will pull in the media. 
   It's a vicious circle. These agribusiness conglomerates used their political clout to shape public policies that helped them grow so big in the first place. Now their overwhelming size makes it easier for them to dictate policies that will help get even bigger. 
   This was just as much a problem at the turn of the century as it is now. American democracy suffered greatly as a result of concentration of economic power in the late 1800s. But the Populists and their successors showed us that there is a different path, that there are alternatives, and they proceeded to lay the groundwork for the Progressive Era. 
   Even before the founding of the People's Party, populists and labor and progressives began working to rein in the concentration of economic power. With the help of some 
    forward-looking Republicans, they fought for and passed the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act and the Packers and Stockyards Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act. They also reined in the trusts through regulation of banks and railroads. And they demanded more and better democracy through the direct election of senators. 
   Judge Robert Bork notwithstanding, I don't believe the Sherman Act was motivated by concerns over economic efficiency and consumer welfare. In fact, during consideration of the Sherman Act, Congressman Mason directly responded to the efficiency arguments raised by John D. Rockefeller.  
   If the price of oil, for instance, were reduced to one cent a barrel, it would not right the wrong done to the people of this country by the trusts which have destroyed legitimate competition and driven honest men from legitimate business enterprises.  
   As Richard Hofstadter has written, the Sherman Act was ``a ceremonial concession to an overwhelming public demand for some kind of reassuring action against the trusts.'' During debate on the Act, Senator John Sherman himself railed against the ``kingly prerogative'' of men with ``concentrated powers.'' He vowed that ``We will not long endure a king over production, transportation, and sale of any of the necessities of life.'' 
   But the antitrust laws, in the words of Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, are now ``mere husks of what they were intended to be.'' In the last 20 years, the courts have been unduly influenced by the anti-antitrust views of Judge Bork and the Chicago School. Today tremendously unfair market power routinely goes unpunished, especially with regard to vertical integration. 
   Courts have limited the effectiveness of the antitrust laws by narrowing their focus to questions of economic efficiency and consumer welfare. The focus on consumer welfare is an obstacle to antitrust enforcement in agriculture, even though farmers were an integral part of the original antitrust movement. Conventional antitrust analysis focuses on the ability of dominant firms to charge higher prices to consumers; price declines are generally not regarded as a problem. But farmers today are drawing attention to the ability of dominant firms to abuse their market power to pay lower prices to producers, not consumers. 
   The Justice Department's recent approval of the Cargill-Continental merger raises troubling questions about the future of antitrust enforcement in agriculture. If DOJ can't stop the merger of Cargill and Continental, what merger will it ever stop? Will it ever be able to take any action at all to arrest the trend towards concentration in agriculture? 
   The Packers and Stockyards Act is a similar story. Enacted in 1921 to combat the market abuse of the top five meat packers, it has extremely broad and far-reaching language. Under the Packers and Stockyard Act, it is unlawful for any packer to ``engage in or use any unfair, unjustly discriminatory, or deceptive practice or device.'' It is unlawful to ``make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage.'' 
   However, some court decisions have limited its scope, and USDA is unwilling to test its regulatory authority in court. Meanwhile, concentration in the meat-packing industry today is higher than it was when the FTC issued its original report leading to enactment of the 1921 Act. 
   Clearly, we cannot simply rely on the current antitrust statutes and antitrust authorities to address the rapid consolidation of the agricultural sector. We must change our antitrust laws. Whether or not our antitrust agencies have authority that they are unwilling to exercise, we need to force their hand. And we must develop a new farm policy. Realistically, however, we know that doing these things may take some time. We must act now. 
   There is something we can do in the short term. I am offering legislation with Senator DORGAN that would impose a moratorium on mergers and acquisitions among agribusinesses that must already submit pre-merger filings under current law (annual net revenue or assets over $100 million for one party and $10 million for the other). This moratorium would remain in effect for 18 months, or until Congress enacts legislation to address the problem of concentration in agriculture, whichever comes first. 
   Over the longer term, however, we need to focus on equalizing the bargaining power between farmers and the global agribusiness giants. A growing disparity of economic power is shifting a larger share of farm income to agribusiness. We need to reverse that trend and level the playing field. Unless we ensure that farmers and ranchers receive a fair share of the profit of the food system, little else we do to maintain family-size farms is likely to succeed. 
   Of course, there's more than one way to attack the problem of unequal bargaining power. The antitrust statutes helped equalize bargaining power by increasing competition, thereby reducing the market power of monopolies. The formation of agricultural cooperatives under the Capper-Volstead Act helped equalize bargaining power from the opposite direction--by increasing the market power of farmers. Under either approach, farmers improve their bargaining position and are likely to obtain a greater share of farm income. 
   Yet there are some inherent disparities in market power that can only be remedied through farm policy. Because there are so many farmers, no single farmer can influence price on his or her own. On their own, farmers cannot limit production waiting for prices to rise or until they can shift crops. Farmers are unable to reduce supply without assistance from the government, which is where farm policy can play a role. 
   Farm policy can also remedy inherent disparities in market power by placing a floor on prices. Laws guaranteeing workers the right to bargain collectively and a minimum wage are based on the same idea. The minimum wage law recognizes that there is unequal bargaining power between employers and workers, and that wage negotiation would often lead to wages that are too low. The bargaining power between agribusiness conglomerates and farmers is similarly unequal, and it is resulting in farmer prices that are too low. Farmers today essentially need the equivalent of a minimum wage. 
   Of course, bolstering the market power of family farmers is inimical to the economic interests of corporate agribusiness, and it will be fiercely resisted. But in the past we have managed to tame concentrations of economic and political power, and I refuse to believe we cannot do so again. For this reason, the examples of the Populist movement and the Progressive Era are enormously instructive and encouraging. 
   Finally, I want to mention the fiery closing speech at the People's Party convention in 1892, which reads like it could have been written yesterday. It was delivered by a remarkable Minnesotan--an implacable foe of monopoly power named Ignatius Donnelly. Donnelly affirmed that ``the interests of rural and urban labor are the same,'' and he called for a return to America's egalitarian founding principles. ``We seek to restore the government of the  Republic to the hands of the `plain people' with whom it originated,'' he said. 
   We should do no less. If we want to sustain a vibrant rural economy and a thriving democracy, we need urgent reform of our farm and antitrust laws. We must act now. We can start by passing an 18-month moratorium on the largest agribusiness mergers. 
   I yield the floor, and I reserve the remainder of our time for the minority. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for his remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am disappointed that the conference committee on H.R. 1906, the Agricultural appropriations bill for FY 2000 included a legislative rider sponsored by Senator MCCONNELL that would fundamentally change the H-2A temporary foreign agricultural worker program. 
   I am concerned that the McConnell rider would be harmful to both foreign and domestic farm workers. The McConnell rider would essentially allow agribusinesses to import as many H-2A foreign guest workers as they want, regardless of whether there are workers here in America who want those jobs. 
   That would be harmful to the U.S. farm workers who want the jobs, obviously. But it would also be harmful to other farm workers, who would then have to compete with more easily exploitable foreign labor. And I believe it would not be good for the guest workers themselves, who would have few of the protections and benefits to which Americans are entitled. 
   The Administration opposes the McConnell rider. So does the U.S. Catholic Conference, the National Council of La Raza, the Farmworker Justice Fund, and the United Farm Workers. The McConnell rider also flatly contradicts the recommendations of the General Accounting Office. 
   Let me take a moment to describe how the H-2A foreign guest worker program works, and maybe that will help explain what the McConnell rider does. The H-2A program allows agricultural employers to import foreign workers on a temporary basis, but only when there is a shortage locally of available U.S. workers. The Labor Department has to issue a labor certification that there is a shortage of available U.S. workers. But before employers can get that certification from the Labor Department, they have to recruit U.S. workers during a period of 28 to 33 days. 
   The McConnell rider would substantially shorten the period during which agricultural employers have to recruit U.S. workers. Under current law, the recruitment period is 28 days, though it can be extended to 33 days if employers have to refile their application. The McConnell rider would shorten the recruitment period to 3 days, with a 5-day extension for refiling. The recruitment period would shrink from 28 days to three days. 
   Three days! Does anyone think any kind of meaningful recruitment is going to take place in a period of three days? Of course not. Shortening the recruitment period to three days would turn the labor certification process into a sham and a charade. The result would be that U.S. farmworkers who want those jobs wouldn't be able to get them, and employers would have almost automatic access to cheap, exploitable foreign guest workers. 
   GAO agrees that shortening the recruitment period to three days would undermine the labor certification process. A December 1997 GAO report looked at this very proposal and found that ``employers will not have sufficient time to meet their duties as required by the program and domestic workers will not have ample opportunity to compete for agricultural employment.'' 
   The issue here is whether we should make the deplorable working conditions of farmworkers in this country even worse, because that would be the effect of the McConnell rider. I don't think my colleagues really want to do that. 
   Given the--frankly--miserable working conditions that many farm workers have to endure, I think it would be unconscionable for us to add to their burdens. Farm workers don't have a lot of power. They don't have a lot of economic power, and they don't have a lot of political power. They don't have a lot of money to contribute to political campaigns. You don't see a lot of farm worker faces among the lobbying groups that visit our offices. 
   Yes, there are some people who advocate on their behalf--groups like the U.S. Catholic Conference, National Council of La Raza, the Farmworker Justice Fund, the UFW. But farmworkers are largely disenfranchised and disempowered. Ultimately, they are dependent on our good will. I hope we can show a little good will towards people who don't have much leverage over us, but people who are very decent and hardworking and deserve better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my father, over a half century ago, wrote an article the day after Hiroshima, and he focused on the problem of a proliferation of atomic bombs and nuclear weaponry. 
   He was worried about his children, and he was worried about his grandchildren to come. 
   Today I come to the floor of the Senate, and I say I really was hoping this  Senator would be a part of a vote that would ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. I think it would be an enormous step forward for our children and our grandchildren in our effort to put a stop to the proliferation of these weapons of mass destruction. 
   I will say very honestly and truthfully to my colleagues that I don't understand why we didn't put this vote off. I don't understand why Senators, on a procedural vote, voted to essentially go forward with this vote today. I think the defeat of this agreement is an enormous step backward for humankind. I think it is a profound mistake. 
   I think now I have to say to the people in Minnesota and to the people in our country I am saddened that this treaty is going to be defeated. I don't think we should have this vote. But to the American people and Minnesotans, hold each and every Senator accountable. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will be very brief. The Senator from New York and the Senator from North Dakota want to speak. 
   On a personal level, I thank Senator COCHRAN from Mississippi for his fine work. 
   I am sympathetic to what my colleagues from the Northeast have to say. They do not believe they really have been in the picture when it comes to disaster relief. I make a commitment, as a Senator from the Midwest, to fight very hard with them to do better on disaster relief before we leave here over the next 4 weeks or 5 weeks. As a matter of fact, I have a lot of concerns about this disaster relief bill as well and this financial package. I am not sure the farmers in northwest Minnesota are going to figure in. We have had a lot of wet weather. They haven't been able to plant their crops. 
   I am very worried that they actually are not going to get this disaster assistance. I also worry about the formula. Altogether, this is an $8.7 billion relief package. I worry about the way in which it is delivered. As I have said before, I think the AMTA payments all too often go to those least in need without enough going to those most in need. 
   Finally, on the negative side, this is all a very painful way of acknowledging that our farm policy is not working. It is a price crisis. Our farmers can't make it on these prices. We are going to lose a whole generation of producers unless we get the loan rate up and get prices up and unless we have a moratorium on these acquisitions and mergers. I am determined to have a vote on the moratorium bill. I am determined to have a vote on doing something to get the prices up for family farmers. That is what speaks to the root of this crisis, which is a very painful economic crisis and a very painful personal crisis because an awful lot of good people are being driven off the land. The only thing this does is enable people to live to maybe farm another day. 
   I say one more time to the majority leader, I want the opportunity to come out with amendments and legislation that will alleviate some of this pain and suffering. I know other Senators feel the same way. 
   Finally, I think I lean heavily toward voting for this only because we need to get some assistance out to people. In Redwood County, which has really been through it, we get about $23 million more to cover production losses in beans and corn from AMTA payments. I am told by Tracy Beckman, who directs our FSA office, that Minnesota will receive about $620 million in AMTA payments to be distributed to about 62,000 eligible producers. 
   I don't think this emergency financial package is anywhere near close to perfect. I think it is flawed in a number of ways. I think we are going to have to do better on disaster relief. But I desperately want to get some help out to people. I think at least this is a step in that direction. We all can come back over the next couple of weeks and do more. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. COCHRAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my father, Leon Wellstone, was born in Odessa in the Ukraine. His family moved several times to stay ahead of the pogroms. Most of his earlier years he spent in Khabarovsk, Siberia, Far East Russia. He came to our country in 1914. He fled persecution. He never could go back home. In all likelihood, his parents were murdered by Stalin. 
   Mr. President, my father spent most of his life in our country in Washington, DC, and during the night of August 7, 1945, he wrote this essay to himself: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object for just a moment, could we look at it for a second, the second degree? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the time agreement is fine on our side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thirty minutes equally divided on the second degree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, with the support of this side, I yield myself 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me just support the remarks of my colleague from Pennsylvania, Senator SPECTER. I understand all the emotion that surrounds this issue, but I think it would be a profound mistake on our part to now pass an amendment that would take away an important discretion from the Secretary of Health and Human Services as to whether or not the needle exchange program is badly needed and would be effective in some of our local communities. I think to have an across-the-board prohibition without taking a really close look at this question could have tragic consequences. 
   So I say to my colleagues I think if we no longer enable the Secretary of Health and Human Services to have some discretion and to know when Federal funds would make a huge difference, and to make sure this is all being done in an above-board manner, then I think we are passing a prohibition which, in personal terms, will translate into more of our citizens--many of them inner city, many poor, and too many of them children--becoming HIV infected and dying from AIDS. I rise to support the comments of my colleague from Pennsylvania. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I probably will not even take 2 minutes. 
   I rise to support the Bingaman amendment. I appreciate what my colleague from New Mexico said earlier in his remarks, which was that the focus on accountability is terribly important. We also have to make sure we invest the resources that will enable each child to have the same opportunity to succeed. I think that is extremely important as well. The two go together. 
   But I do believe this is very helpful to States. It is very helpful to low-income children. I think it is terribly important that States devise and put into effect strategies that make sure we have the highest quality title I programs, which are, after all, all about expanding opportunities for low-income children, dealing with the learning gap, enabling a child to do well in school and therefore well in his or her life. 
   I applaud his emphasis on accountability and rise to indicate my support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Would it be in order for me to call up my amendment in order to move on? I ask unanimous consent to set aside the pending amendment and call up amendment numbered 1842. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Just to be clear to colleagues, I thought we were finished and were trying to move along. I am willing to wait, if Senator BINGAMAN wishes to continue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Very well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I wonder whether I could ask unanimous consent for 3 minutes as in morning business to make a statement while we are in deliberations. I ask unanimous consent to be able to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Absolutely. I am trying to make the best use of our time, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we are in the midst of an unprecedented wave of mergers and concentration in the media and the communications industries. We are talking about the flow of information in democracy and whether a few are going to control this. But instead of doing anything about it, to protect American consumers or to safeguard the flow of information that our democracy depends upon, I am troubled by efforts underway to undermine protections that are already on the books. 
   I cite that the CBS-Viacom merger announced last month would be the biggest media deal ever. Today, the FCC announced its approval of a merger between SBC and Ameritech. On Tuesday, Clear Channel Communications announced that it is buying AMFM to create a huge radio conglomerate with 830 stations that will dominate American radio. 
   I am amazed so few people are concerned about these developments. The reason I rise to speak about this is that when FCC Chairman Bill Kennard is so bold as to point out that the MCI-Sprint deal would undermine competition, he is simply doing his job. I want to say on the floor of the Senate, he should not be punished for doing his job. 
   Last year, when the FCC approved the merger of Worldcom and MCI, Chairman Kennard said the industry was one merger away from undue concentration. Now this merger would be the one that pushes us over the top. 
   So when Antitrust Division Chief Joel Klein of the Justice Department brings some very difficult cases to enforce our country's antitrust laws, he is simply doing his job. When FCC Chairman Bill Kennard raises these kinds of questions, he is simply doing his job. 
   We cannot expect these agencies to enforce our laws, to do their job, if we take away their budgets or their statutory authority every time they do it. We need to strengthen our review of these mergers. We need to strength our antitrust laws, on which I think we have to do much better. And we need to give the Justice Department, the FTC, and the FCC the resources they need to enforce the law. 
   So more than anything else, I rise to support Bill Kennard's concerns, to tell him he is doing his job, and urge my colleagues to understand that he has an important responsibility to protect the consumers. The flow of information in our democracy is the most important thing we have. He certainly  should not be punished for doing his job and doing his job well. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent to set aside the pending amendment, and I call up amendment No. 1842. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me first explain this amendment to colleagues and then marshal my evidence for it. 
   I believe we will have a good, strong vote on the floor of the Senate for this amendment. I have introduced a similar amendment in the past, which lost by one vote, but I have now changed the amendment which I think will make it more acceptable to colleagues. 
   In the 1996 welfare law we passed, we set aside $1 billion for high-performance bonuses to go to States, and currently this money goes to States. The way it works is, it uses a formula that takes into account the State's effectiveness in enabling TANF recipients to find jobs, which is terribly important. The whole goal of the welfare bill was to move families from welfare dependency to becoming economically independent. 
   This amendment would add three more criteria. We have had, in the last year or two, a dramatic decline in food stamp participation, about a 25-percent decline. This should be of concern to all of us because the Food Stamp Program has been the most important safety net program for poor children in our country. Indeed, it was President Nixon, a Republican President, who, in 1972, federalized this program and said: One thing we are going to do as a national community is make sure children aren't going hungry in our country. We are going to make sure we have a program with national standards and that those families who are eligible to participate are, indeed, able to obtain this assistance. 
   In addition, what we want to find out is the proportion of families leaving TANF who were covered by Medicaid or health insurance. Families USA, which is an organization that has tremendous credibility with all of us, issued a disturbing report a few months ago. To summarize it, because of the welfare bill, there are about 670,000 Americans who no longer have any health care coverage. 
   Maybe that is worth repeating. Because of the welfare bill, there are about 670,000 Americans who no longer have any coverage. Since about two-thirds of welfare recipients have always been children--this was, after all, mainly for mothers and children--we want to make sure these children and these families still have health care coverage. 
   We want to also make sure we get some information about the number of children in these working families who receive some form of affordable child care. In other words, again, what we want to find out is, as families move from welfare to work, which is the goal--and I think work with dignity is terribly important--we also want to make sure the children are OK. 
   Again, I will use but one of many examples. It will take me some time to develop my argument, but one very gripping example, I say to the Chair, is when I was in east LA, I was meeting with a group of Head Start mothers. As we were discussing the Head Start Program and their children, one of the mothers was telling me she had been a welfare mother and was emphasizing that she was working. Indeed, she was quite proud of working. In the middle of our discussion, all of a sudden she became upset and started to cry. 
   I asked her: If I am poking my nose into your business, pay no attention to me, but can you tell me why you are so upset? She said: The one problem with my working is when my second grader goes home--she lived in a housing project; later I visited that housing project--it is a pretty dangerous area. It used to be I could walk my second grader to school, and then I could walk her home, make sure she was OK. I was there with her. Now I am always frightened, especially after school. I tell her to go home, and I tell her to lock the door. I tell her not to take any phone calls because no one is there. 
   It makes us wonder how many children are in apartments where they have locked the door and can't take any phone calls and can't go outside to play, even when it is a beautiful day. I think we do need to know how the children are faring and what is going on. Again, this is a matter of doing some good policy evaluation. 
   Finally, for those States that have adopted the family violence option, which we were able to do with the help of my wife Sheila and Senator PATTY MURRAY, we want to know how well they are doing in providing the services for victims of domestic violence. This is important. The family violence option essentially said we are not saying these mothers should be exempt. What we are saying is there should be an opportunity for States to be able to say to the Federal Government--it would be up to States, and they would not be penalized for that--look, this woman has been battered and beaten over and over again and we are not going to get her to work as quickly as we are other mothers; there are additional support services she needs. When she goes to work, this guy is there threatening her. Because of these kinds of circumstances, please give us more flexibility. 
   We want to find out how these States are dealing with that. Otherwise, what happens is if you don't have that kind of flexibility, then a mother finds herself sanctioned if she doesn't take the job; but she can't really take the job and, therefore, the only thing she ends up doing is going back into a very dangerous home. She has left, she has tried to get away, and she is trying to be safe. If you cut off her assistance, then she has no other choice but to go back into a very dangerous home. 
   That should not happen in America. By the way, colleagues, I know it is an incredible statistic, but October is the month we focus on violence in homes. I wish it didn't happen. About the most conservative statistic is that every 13 seconds a woman is battered in her home in our country. I can't even grasp the meaning of that. A home should be a safe place.  
   As I have said before--and I hope my colleagues, Senator HOLLINGS and Senator JUDD GREGG, will help me keep this in conference committee--about 5 million children see this violence. So we talk about the fact children should not see the violence in movies and on television. A lot of them see the violence right in their homes. It has a devastating impact on their own lives. We need to make sure these kids don't fall between the cracks and that we provide some services. 
   I am going to start out in a moment with some examples. I am talking about nothing more than good policy evaluation. Let me wear my teacher hat. All I am saying--and we can disagree or agree about the bill, on should we have passed it or not, and some things are working well but some have questions; I have questions--let's at least do some good thorough policy evaluation. We are saying that the States just merge their tapes --they have the data--and present it to Health and Human Services. We have a report. We know what is going on in these areas. 
   This is a sense-of-the-Senate amendment because, otherwise, I would have been subject to a rule XVI point of order. I hoped I would not have had to do a sense of the Senate because, under normal circumstances, we would have had the House bill over here. If the House bill had been over here, then I could have introduced this amendment, and I would not have been subject to any rule XVI challenge. Since that has not happened, what I am doing is bringing this amendment out, getting, I hope, a good, strong vote, and if the House does, in fact, move forward with some work and gets the Labor-Health and Human Services Appropriation bill passed, then I will bring this amendment back as a regular amendment. I say to colleagues, all the time I 
   spend today will have been well spent, and we can have 5 minutes of debate and then vote on it. In a way, I am trying to move us forward in an expeditious manner. 
   When we are talking about families that are worried about whether they can put food on the table or worried about whether they can pay the rent at the end of the month, I don't think they much care whether or not my amendment is subject to rule XVI; I don't think they much care whether or not this is an amendment on an appropriations bill; I don't think they much care about why the House hasn't sent an appropriations bill over to the Senate. What they care about are more pressing issues. 
   What I am concerned about is that there is, indeed, a segment of our population who are very poor, the majority of whom are children, who are, indeed, falling between the cracks. Let me also say at the very beginning that I think this is the question: Since the welfare bill passed, we have reduced the rolls by about 4.5 million people, the majority of them children. That has been about a 50-percent reduction in the welfare population. The question is whether or not the reduction of the welfare rolls has led to a reduction of poverty because the goal of the legislation was to move these families to some kind of economic self-sufficiency and certainly not to put them in a more precarious situation. 
   I think we ought to have the data. I think we ought to do the policy evaluation. I have said it before on the floor of the Senate, and I think it is worth saying again: One of my favorite sociologists, Gunnar Myrdal, a Swedish sociologist, once said, ``Ignorance is never random; sometimes we don't know what we don't want to know.'' I think we ought not to be ignorant about this. We ought to have the data. 
   My appeal is to do the policy evaluation. This amendment will not cost additional money. It can be absorbed into the existing amount of money, according to CBO. There is no reason why we should not want to know--especially since, in many States, the drop-dead date certain is approaching where everyone will have used up the number of years they can receive an AFDC benefit and will be cut off assistance. Before we do that with the rest of the population, let's at least have some kind of policy evaluation. Let's understand what is happening to these families. 
   By the way, I think among those families that are still on welfare, we are talking about a fair number of children who had children and who need, therefore, to get a high school diploma or are in need of job training. We are talking about single parents with severely disabled children. We are talking about a fair number of single parents who are women who struggle with substance abuse. I am being blunt about it. This is an issue I know well from work I have done all of my adult life in local communities. We are talking about women who have been victims of domestic violence. We need to be careful about what we are doing. Sometimes we forget it, but this is about the lives of people in the country and, in particular, poor women and children. I think we ought to have an honest policy evaluation. 
   I want to put this in a very personal context now. Before I do this, I wish to start out with some art work that will speak to this part of my presentation. We had a group of high school students from Minneapolis here--it was incredible--who were working with the Harriet Tubman Center, which is a very special shelter. These high school kids--I think 300 or 400 of them submitted their art, and these 11 or 12 students were the ones who had the best art, but all of it was exceptional--came to Washington, DC, 2 days ago. This display is now in the Russell Building Rotunda for a week. Every year, for the last 6 or 7 years, Sheila and I have brought different works from around the country--sometimes from Minnesota and sometimes from other States--to the Nation's Capitol. I want to show a little bit of these students' work. 
   So often the focus on students is so negative. These are inner-city high school students. It was a wonderful diversity, with all sorts of nationalities, cultures, histories, different colors, a great group of students. I was so pleased they came to Washington. This work I think speaks for itself. I will read from the top:  
   Is a corner in your home the only place your child felt safe today? Why is it always my fault? Stop it. Speak up. Seeing or hearing violence among family members hurts children in many ways. They do not have to be hit to feel the pain of violence.  
   I am going to hold this up for a moment so it can be seen by people who are watching this presentation. My colleagues can see this in the Russell Rotunda. 
   Next picture. I will hold it up. It says:  
   In the time it takes you to tie your shoe, a woman is beaten......Go ahead, now tie your other one! Speak up! Domestic violence causes almost 100,000 days of hospitalization, 30,000 emergency room visits, and 40,000 trips to the doctor every single year. 
   I will just hold this up for a moment so it can be seen. This is pretty marvelous work. This is art from the heart. This is art from the heart of high school students. I say that to the pages; they are high school students. 
   The next work:  
   If we hear the violence and see the violence, why is it so hard to speak of the violence? 
   Is being a passer-by keeping a secret? ``Speak up.''  
   Ninety-two percent of women who are physically abused by their partners do not discuss these incidents with a physician. Fifty-seven percent do not discuss the incidents with anyone. 
   Finally, this is really powerful. I will show it this way, too.  
   So ..... how do your kids behave on a date? Love isn't supposed to hurt.  
   Two high school kids. 
   On average, 100 out of 300 school students are or have been in an abusive dating relationship. Only 4 out of 10 of these relationships end when the violence and abuse begin. One out of three high school students is or has been in an abusive dating relationship. 
   I say to my colleague from Nevada this is marvelous artwork done by high school students in inner-city Minneapolis. Twelve of them came to Washington, DC. I thank my colleague, Senator REID from Nevada, for having the courtesy and graciousness to acknowledge this work. 
   I want to tell you about a conversation I had. Maureen, who works with Interchange Food Pantry in Milwaukee, WI, told me about a phone call she received on Monday of this week--Monday this week. On Monday, Maureen received a phone call. It was a woman who was well known at the food pantry, a woman who has a file about an inch and a half thick documenting the domestic violence she has endured at the hands of an abusive husband.  
   Yesterday, this woman--we are talking about this week, right now. I want everyone to understand that this debate is about people's lives. 
   Yesterday, this woman ran out of her home with her 3-year-old child in her arms, fleeing her abusive husband. She went to school, and she picked up her three other young children. She went to a laundromat. She called Maureen. She was looking for help, and she didn't know where else to turn. 
   The people at the food pantry tried to place this woman in a domestic violence shelter. But homelessness right now seems to have reached epidemic proportions in Milwaukee. So many women are becoming homeless that all of the battered women's shelters are full to overflowing, and desperate women are presenting themselves as victims of domestic violence so they can be placed in shelters. The shelters don't have any room because there are so many homeless women and children. Some of these women are basically pretending as if they are victims. Plenty of them are. Because they are so battered, they try to find shelter. What this means is there is no place left to go for homeless women and women who are victims of domestic violence. 
   She couldn't find a shelter at this food pantry. They could find no shelter to place this woman. On the phone, they couldn't find anything for her. 
   This is 1999 in America. The economy is booming. We don't have this kind of discussion on the floor of the Senate enough. 
   All that food pantry was able to do was to give her some 
   food vouchers and a bus ticket so they could go spend the night with her mother. But her mother lives in senior housing. She is not supposed to have overnight guests, and she could actually end up losing her house if they get caught. 
   So this woman, who has a 15-year history of abuse, is going to have to return to her home. That is where she is going. She will have to go back to this abusive, violent, dangerous situation for herself and for her children because she lacks the economic independence to do anything else. 
   No one should be forced to risk their life or the lives of their children because they are poor. This woman's story is a welfare nightmare. She is doing all she can. Her children are clean, and they are well cared for. But she is not making it economically. Her husband isn't willing to work. Therefore, the family has been sanctioned by the welfare department on and off. She has been forced to rely on the food pantry for help. 
   So she sells her plasma as often as possible--about three times a week. She doesn't have a high school degree. But the welfare agency, instead of making sure she gets her GED and the training she needs to get some kind of a living-wage job, has put her into a training program so she can become a housekeeper in a hotel. Their idea of getting this woman to a life of economic independence is to place her as a housekeeper in a hotel. 
   She has been in an abusive, dangerous situation for 15 years. Her caseworker is aware of her situation. But there is no help. There is no effort to make her economically independent so she can leave the marriage, and she is now being forced back into this home. She does not have the economic wherewithal to leave her home. 
   This woman has tried. She went to the welfare office. She asked to be placed in a job. They put her to work in a light manufacturing job, a job for which she had no training whatsoever. Making the situation even worse, they placed her in a job that was way out in the suburbs with a 45-minute commute each way on a bus. 
   Listen to this. This is why I think we need to know what is going on in the country. She had to get up at 4:30 in the morning, drop her kid off at child care--child care is hard to find at 4:30 in the morning--travel to her job, put in a full day's work, and ride all the way home, pick up her kids, and go back home to face her abusive husband. When she went to the welfare worker and explained the situation, she was told that if she quit this job, she would be sanctioned and she would lose her benefits. 
   This woman's life and the lives of her children are not going to get better until she can get out of her situation. But under the current welfare program--at least the way it is working in one State, in one community--this isn't going to happen. 
   Let me give a few examples from some of the studies that have been done. Then let me go into the overall debate. 
   Applying for cash assistance has become difficult in many places. In one Alabama county, a professor found that intake workers gave public assistance applications to only 6 out of 27 undergraduate students who requested them despite State policy that says anyone who asks for an application should get one. 
   This was from a Children's Defense Fund study. The study cited was by the professor who was doing fieldwork research on the application process in two Alabama counties. 
   Before I actually give the examples, let me go to the debate. There are those who argue that we don't need to do any policy evaluation because we have cut the rolls in half. But the goal was never cutting the rolls in half. The goal was to reduce poverty. 
   Let me cite some disturbing evidence: The reduction in the roles is not bringing a reduction in poverty. We want to know, what kind of jobs do the mothers have? What kind of wages? Are the families still receiving medical coverage? Is there affordable child care? Are children still participating in the Food Stamp Program? This is what we need to know. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I agree with the request and I am pleased to work within this framework. I have a judge I have to meet; he is going to be appearing before an important committee. I do not get done with that until a little bit after 2 o'clock. Could we say 2:15 instead of 1:50? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will figure out how to do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Georgia. 
   Mr. President, since I had a chance to speak on this amendment, I can be brief and probably will not need to take anywhere near the full amount of time. 
   Let me remind Senators what the vote on this amendment will be: To express the sense of the Senate regarding the importance of determining the economic status of former recipients of temporary assistance to needy families. I am hoping not one Senator votes against this. 
   Again, the purpose of this amendment is to express the sense of the Senate that we want to know, what is the economic status of welfare mothers no longer on welfare? What is happening with this legislation? It is called policy evaluation. 
   It is a sense of the Senate because otherwise I would be subject to rule XVI. If the House had done their work and had sent over the Labor, Health and Human Services appropriations bill, I could do this amendment and I wouldn't have to do a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. I certainly hope there is not a motion to table this. I can't imagine why it would be controversial. 
   The Senate goes on record that we need to determine the economic status of these former recipients. We need to know how this legislation is working. We need to know whether or not these mothers, who have been sanctioned, actually have jobs. We need to know whether the jobs pay a living wage. We need to know whether these families have been cut off medical assistance when they are still eligible. We need to know whether or not families have been cut from food stamp assistance even when they are eligible, and we need to know what the child care situation 
   is. We need to know the status of 2-year-olds and 3-year-olds. 
   This sense-of-the-Senate amendment has the support of some 120 different organizations: from Catholic Charities USA; Center for Community Change; Food Research and Action Center; National Center on Poverty Law; National Coalition Against Domestic Violence; NETWORK, a National Catholic Social Justice Lobby; YWCA of America--the list goes on and on--Children's Defense Fund; Women for Reform Judaism. There is a long list of organizations to which I think all of us give  some credibility as important justice organizations. 
   Again, I had a chance to speak about this amendment earlier. I will just summarize. Yes, the welfare rolls have been reduced by about half. There are 4.5 million fewer Americans receiving any assistance. But the goal wasn't to basically reduce the welfare rolls; the goal was to reduce poverty. There are still some 34-, 35 million poor Americans. Unfortunately, some 6.5 million children live in households with incomes less than half of the official poverty level. Among one subgroup of our population, the poorest of poor people, poverty has gone up. 
   Today, about 20 percent of all the children in our country and about a third of the children of color under the age of 6 are growing up poor. Still today the largest poverty-stricken group of Americans are children. Still today we have a set of social arrangements that allow children to be the most poverty-stricken group in our country. I cite as evidence, again, some disturbing studies. Families USA says we have about 670,000 fewer people who no longer receive medical coverage because of the welfare bill; 670,000 citizens no longer receiving any medical assistance because of the welfare bill. We have the U.S. Department of Agriculture telling us there has been about a 20- to 25-percent drop in food stamp participation, which has been the most important safety net program for children. 
   In addition, we have any number of different studies--NETWORK, Catholic Justice Organization being but one--which point out that most of the jobs these mothers are getting pay about $7 an hour. But if they don't have any health care coverage, they are worse off. There are too many examples I can give. Again, I want to make sure we have the data about children, 2 and 3 years old, who are not receiving adequate child care. 
   The question I am asking is embodied in the wording of this amendment: To express the sense of the Senate regarding the importance of determining the economic status of these former recipients. 
   What has happened to these women and children? How are they doing? Is this welfare bill working? We should do some honest policy evaluation. Today, at about quarter to 2, we will have a vote on an amendment every Senator should support. How can a Senator argue that it isn't important to know the economic status of these women and children? I don't see the case against it. I hope we get a strong vote, and then that will give us some momentum for finally moving forward with some legislation that eventually will have some teeth that will, in fact, call for this kind of policy evaluation. 
   I say to colleagues I could give many State-by-State examples of ways in which I don't think this is working quite the way we want it to. I won't. I could say to Democrats and Republicans that, in some cases, in some communities, there is success; in other cases, in other communities, what is going on it is rather brutal. 
   I can certainly say to all of my colleagues, in very good faith, we need to understand the drop in food stamp participation; they are so important to meeting the nutritional needs of children. We need to understand why so many people have been dropped from medical assistance. We need to know whether there is decent child care for these children, and we need to know whether or not these families are moving toward economic independence. 
   It is extremely important that we do this policy evaluation. That is all this amendment calls for. It is a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. It is to get Senators on record with a good, strong vote that we ``express the sense of the Senate regarding the importance of determining the economic status of former recipients of temporary assistance in needy families.'' 
   Mr. President, I don't know that more needs to be said about this amendment. I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to be brief because other colleagues are going to speak, and then I will come back later as we go forward in this debate. 
   I say to my colleagues on the other side, what Senator DURBIN from Illinois said is right on the mark. As ranking minority member on the Labor Committee, now called HELP, which has jurisdiction over OSHA and occupational health and safety issues which are very important to working people, I have a lot to say about this amendment. What I will say, as this debate goes forward, will be substantive, and it will be important in determining how all of us vote. This is an incredibly important issue. 
   I will start out for a few brief minutes right now and then turn it over to other colleagues. I will come back later as this debate develops. 
   This Bond amendment will basically stop OSHA from doing its job, which is the mission of the mandate of keeping American workers from getting injured at work. It basically stops OSHA from doing its job, and OSHA's job is to prevent workers from being injured at work. 
   This amendment will shut down the normal rulemaking process and stop OSHA from doing anything at all about ergonomic job hazards that are seriously injuring over 600,000 workers every year. That is a statistic my colleagues do not like to talk about. I have heard the arguments about bureaucrats and big government and all of the rest, but we ought not be too generous with the suffering of others. We are talking about 600,000 workers who are seriously injured every year. That is what this debate is all about. 
   Ergonomic injuries are serious injuries from repetitive motions, overexertion, and physical stress. They include carpal tunnel syndrome, back injuries, and tendonitis. The amendment before us will stop OSHA from issuing a standard to prevent these injuries until the National Academy of Sciences completes a new study which will take somewhere between 18 to 24 months. This amendment will stop OSHA from issuing not only a regulation, but even voluntary guidelines or standards. This amendment is an extreme amendment, extremely harsh in its impact on working people. 
   Last week, Secretary of Labor Herman wrote that she would recommend a veto of S. 1650 if this amendment is adopted. By the way, I also say to my colleagues, the reason Senator DURBIN was right in what he said earlier--that this debate will take some time--is because it is important to put a focus on the people and their lives and who is going to be affected by this. 
   With all due respect, quite often--and this particular case is a perfect example--when we talk about OSHA or NIOSH, when we talk about occupational health and safety, we are talking about a group of Americans who are rarely in the Senate or the House. These are not in the main, our sons or daughters. These are not in the main, our brothers or sisters or our parents. In fact, I think if they were, this amendment would not even be before the Senate. I do not want to lose sight of about whom we are talking. 
   There are four points I want to make as this debate develops. I will not develop any of these points right now, but I will mention them. 
   First, I want to spend some time later on talking about the people, real people who are affected by this debate. As we speak, there are workers who are injured needlessly because of the continuing efforts by this Congress, as represented by the Bond amendment, to keep OSHA from doing its job. These are real people with real health problems who are hurt at the workplace with disabling injuries. I want to spend a lot of time talking about who these people are. I want to present stories. I want to talk about these people in the most personal terms possible so we know what is at stake. 
   Second, I want to make the case that something can be done to stop people from being injured in this way, from stopping these physically disabling injuries, from stopping the pain. There is no need to wait another 2 years for another study. We do not need another study to show that ergonomic hazards cause injuries and these injuries can be prevented. We already know it. There are already reams of scientific evidence to prove it, and one more review of the scientific literature is not going to change anything. Later on in this debate, I will talk about the studies that have already taken place and what their conclusions are, all of which say we need to go forward right now. 
   Third, I want to dispel the mistaken impression among some Senators that a deal was worked out last year whereby OSHA would delay this rulemaking until the National Academy of Sciences completes its second study. Actually, that appears to be just the opposite of what happened. 
   According to the parties involved in those negotiations, there was an understanding that this new NAS study would not prevent OSHA from going forward. There was a clear understanding that this new NAS study would not prevent OSHA from going forward. 
   Finally, I want to make it clear that the issue is not the substance of OSHA's proposal. There is already a process in 
   place for addressing any criticisms or any modifications that Senators and others may have. It is the same rulemaking process that is used for any other regulation: Interested parties are encouraged to comment and suggest changes. Criticisms or quibbles with OSHA's current proposal should not be used as an excuse to stop OSHA from doing anything whatsoever, and that is exactly what is happening. This  ergonomic standard has been delayed for far too long. 
   It was first proposed in 1990 by then-Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole. I will go back through that history as well, but I will conclude right now by saying that this amendment just shuts down the normal rulemaking process. It stops OSHA from doing its job. It does not speak to the 600,000 workers right now who are being injured and who are struggling because, in fact, we do not have ergonomic job standards. These injuries are serious injuries. They are disabling injuries. Surely, we can take action right now. 
   This is all about working people. It is all about making sure there is some safety at the workplace. It is all about our responsibility to move forward with a standard that will provide some protection. It is all about making sure OSHA is not gutted. It is all about making sure this amendment, which I view as a direct threat to many hard-working people, does not go forward. 
   Yes, we are here to debate this. My colleague, Senator DURBIN, is ready to speak. Senator HARKIN is going to speak. Senator KENNEDY will be here. And later on in the debate, I will come back and lay out story after story of families that will be affected by this amendment. I will talk about what this means in personal terms. I will talk about all the studies that have already taken place and what the science clearly suggests to us. We will have a major debate on this. I have no doubt the vast majority of people in this country expect the Senate to be on the side of providing some decent protection for hard-working Americans. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Five minutes.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will use 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I find this amendment to be very troubling, and I hope colleagues will support our effort to table it. This amendment plays off hard-working people who are trying to make a decent wage against people in communities that are faced with disaster. 
   In 1999, so far, there have been 72 disaster declarations in 36 States, including Minnesota. The Smith amendment would suspend the Davis-Bacon application to all contracts in these areas for the entire year. 
   I think what people in Minnesota and in our country are saying to us is, when there is a disaster in our community and we need the help, please help us. I think what people in Minnesota and in the country are saying to us is that the prevailing wage is important, a living wage is important, a family wage is important, so please don't go cutting our wages. 
   There is absolutely no reason in the world to play off construction workers and the need to make a decent wage and support your family with whether or not we are going to be able to provide disaster relief to communities. This is a false choice. It is, in many ways, an outrageous choice. This amendment should be defeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I may offer the second-degree amendment---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 1880. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send a second-degree amendment to the desk.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I will be pleased to use his additional time if he wants me to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will shortly outline my amendment, which is a very important amendment dealing with community block grant mental health services. I want to start out, however, in a very personal way. 
   Mr. President, the Governor of Minnesota, Governor Ventura, in an interview with Playboy magazine said that he did not read books by Ernest Hemingway because the writer killed himself. And he want on to say:  
   I've seen too many people fight for their lives. I have no respect for anyone who would kill himself. If you're a feeble, weak-minded person to begin with, I don't have time for you.  
   At Harvard University yesterday Governor Ventura was asked about his remarks, that suicide was for the feeble, weak-minded. And he said:  
   I do upwards of 25 interviews a week ..... over 1,000 interviews a year. I'm human. You got good days; you got bad days.  
   He continued:  
   I don't have sympathy, is what my feelings are on suicide. ..... To me it's something that doesn't have to happen if people take a positive attitude on life like I do.  
   Today the Surgeon General, David Satcher, gave a very eloquent speech. Today is the ninth annual National Depression Screening Day. He pointed out that suicide is the ninth leading cause of mortality in the United States, responsible for 31,000 deaths. 
   Mr. President, 85 Americans die every day having taken their lives. Suicide is the fourth leading cause of death for children ages 10 to 14. 
   I want to respond to these remarks by Governor Ventura because I have devoted so much of my work as a Senator in the mental health area, with Senator DOMENICI, my colleague from New Mexico, who is a Republican, and Senator REID from Nevada. 
   First of all, let me acknowledge the work of Al and Mary Kluesner. The Kluesners are wonderful people. Al and Mary Kluesner started an organization 10 years ago called SA/VE. This is an organization made up of family members. Many of them are parents who have lost their children. Al and Mary Kluesner have lost two children to suicide. 
   The Governor of Minnesota and all Americans need to understand that suicide is directly linked to mental illness. The form of mental illness we are talking about is severe depression. When people struggle with severe depression, they lose hope. 
   I want the Governor of Minnesota to understand that this mental illness is not a moral failing. I want Governor Ventura to understand that all these families that have gone through so much pain need support. They do not need ridicule. 
   Today is the ninth annual National Depression Screening Day. This is when communities set up free confidential screening opportunities for people to talk privately with mental health professionals, receive educational material about the symptoms and treatment for depression and, when appropriate obtain referrals for care. 
   Clinical depression is one of the most common illnesses. It affects more than 19 million Americans a year. These educational programs are to be commended. But if we do not have the resources to fund proper treatment for mental health illnesses, then all of this research and all of this education and all of this information may be for nothing. 
   The clinical care that is needed may never reach those who need it the most. 
   Why? Because they cannot afford it. 
   Why? Because we do not have fairness--parity--in mental health coverage. 
   Why? Because we drastically underfund public programs for mental health care, such as the mental health block grant program. 
   Why? Because of problems with mental health services provided through the Medicaid programs, which represent 19 percent of nationwide mental health care. 
   Why? Because it seems we would rather incarcerate children with mental illness than to provide community treatment programs that are so desperately needed. 
   Why? Because we do not provide coverage for medication in so many health care programs. 
   Untreated mental illness so often leads to tragedy such as suicide. We know from today's congressional briefing on depression and the elderly an outstanding fact: The highest suicide rate--often the result of undiagnosed and untreated depression--is for white men over 85 years old--65.3 per 100,000 persons. 
   Suicide is the third leading cause of death among young people ages 15 to 24. 
   We need to increase funding for mental health services, not decrease it. 
   This amendment, which I will summarize in a moment---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is true. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My colleague from Nevada is absolutely correct. That is why I had to respond to these comments by Governor Ventura from Minnesota. This is an illness. This is an illness that affects many Americans. This is an illness that has led to such pain for so many families. 
   I mentioned Al and Mary Kluesner from Minnesota who started an organization. Sheila and I have been to their gatherings, I say to my colleague, for the last 3 years. Hundreds of people come, including parents who have lost their children to suicide. They do not need ridicule. We need to understand this is not a moral failing. This is an illness. Suicide is the result of this illness. With treatment, we can prevent these deaths.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Nevada, he is absolutely correct. The research over especially this last decade--which has focused on brain diseases--over and over and over again points out that these diseases are comparable to physical illnesses. They are diagnosable and they are treatable, but the big challenge for us is to overcome the stigma, to overcome the discrimination. 
   That is why I am so outraged by these remarks by Governor Ventura. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
   I point out to the Senator from Nevada, this is the fourth leading cause of death among children, ages 10 to 14, suicide, among white males. There are other populations as well. The rate of suicide among African American males, ages 15 to 19, has increased 105 percent between 1980 and 1996. 
   Senator SPECTER and Senator HARKIN have done a yeoman's job of getting more support for these mental health services. What I am trying to do is take this mental health performance partnership block grant program, which supports comprehensive community-based treatment for adults with serious mental illnesses and children with serious emotional disturbances, back to the level of funding the President requested. This is administered through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, SAMHSA. 
   I say to my colleague from Pennsylvania, if I could have 5 more minutes to summarize this, we want to go to a voice vote, and this amendment will be accepted. I will be honored. 
   Let me simply talk about the services that are so important. This is funding for communities for programs that include treatment, rehabilitation, case management, outreach for homeless individuals, children's mental health services, and community-based treatment services that have everything in the world to do with providing treatment to people and enabling people to live lives with as much independence and dignity as possible. 
   Right now the mental health block grant is funded at $310 million. That is a small amount compared to the tremendous need. This amendment would add $50 million. With this amendment, we could provide support for some important community services that would make a tremendous amount of difference. 
   I went over some of the gaps earlier. My colleague from Pennsylvania, who is managing this bill on the Republican side, said there is an indication to accept this amendment. I will be very pleased. I know colleagues want to move this along. 
   I say to my Republican colleagues and Democratic colleagues, I appreciate the support for this. I know Senator SPECTER is committed to this. I know Senator HARKIN is as well. I would like to have this amendment approved. I would like to see the additional resources. This is an extremely important program. We have to do a lot better in this area. We can do it at the community level, but for those adults--and we are, in particular, talking about adults with serious mental illnesses and children with serious emotional disturbances--all too often, they wind up out on the streets or they wind up in prison or they wind up not receiving the care. So much of this illness is diagnosable. So much of it is treatable. There are so many ways we can help people. 
   I think accepting this amendment and making sure we can keep this level of funding as we go to the conference committee would be extremely important. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield back my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Parkinson's hearing was great news for all those who suffer from this disease. The advocacy community was well-represented by actor Michael J. Fox, Joan Samuelson--President of the Parkinson's Action Network, and Jim Cordy--a Parkinson's advocate from Pennsylvania. Their personal stories underscore the need for Congress to ensure that there is increased funding for Parkinson's research. Parkinson's is the most curable neurological disorder and the one most likely to produce a breakthrough. Congress passed the Morris K. Udall Research Act, making clear that Parkinson's should receive the funding it needs to eradicate this truly dreadful disease. Now it is time to fulfill that promise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thought I would use this time, before we go forward in the Senate with some additional votes, to speak on two matters. I am actually waiting for a few visuals, or pictures, I want to show regarding what I am going to say. 
   First of all, let me thank a pretty amazing group of young people from my State of Minnesota for coming all the way here to Washington, DC. These are high school students, and they have brought, if you will, art that is from the heart. It is an art display that will be on exhibit in the rotunda of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
   This month of October is an awareness of domestic violence month. People in the country should understand, if they don't already, that about every 13 seconds, a woman is battered in her home--about every 13 seconds. 
   A home should be a safe place for women and children. What these students have done is--and I first saw their display at the Harriet Tubman Center back home in Minnesota--they have presented some art that, as I say, is really from the heart. This artwork, in the most powerful way, deals with the devastating impact of violence in homes, not only on women and adults but on children as well. 
   Quite often, we have debates out here on the floor of the Senate about the negative impact of television violence, or violence in movies, on children. The fact is that for too many children--maybe as many as 5 million children in our country--they don't need to turn on the TV or go to a movie to see the violence; they see the violence in their homes. 
   We will have this really marvelous display of art by these students from Minnesota, and it will be in the Russell rotunda on display this week. Tonight, for other Senators, at 6:30, there will be a reception for these students. They should be honored for their fine work. 
   Mr. President, I commend Mr. Dionne. His words speak eloquently to the emotions and feelings of many of us. Again, I respect the Governor of Minnesota in expressing his views, but we certainly have an obligation to express ours. E.J. Dionne has expressed them well with this Member of the Senate. 
   I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the government of Belarus has systematically intimidated and punished members of opposition political groups for several years now. Ordinary citizens--some as young as fifteen--have been beaten, arrested, and charged with absurd criminal offenses all because they dared to speak out against the President of Belarus, Alex Lukashenko, and his crushing of basic human rights and civil liberties there. 
   Recently, however, events have grown worse. Four dissidents, closely watched by the government's omnipresent security police have vanished. The government says it has no clues as to why. Up until now, the President only beat and jailed his opponents. The President now appears to be behind a series of disappearances by key opposition figures since April, as reported in the New York Times. Last week, the State Department said that it was greatly concerned about the pattern of disappearances and urged the government of Belarus to find and protect those who had vanished. The disappearances coincide with the strongest campaign yet launched by Belarus's pro-democracy movement to press the government for reforms. 
   The first person to disappear was the former chairwoman of the Central Bank (Tamara Vinnikova). She publicly supported the former prime minister, an opposition candidate, and was being held on trumped up charges under house arrest with an armed guard at the time she vanished. That she was held under house arrest, guarded at all times by live-in KGB agents, her telephone calls and visitors strictly screened, strongly suggests that her disappearance was orchestrated by the authorities. 
   In May, Yuri Zakharenka, a former interior minister and an opposition activist, disappeared as he was walking home. He was last seen bundled into a car by a group of unidentified men. His wife said for two weeks prior to his abduction, he had complained of being tailed by two cars. 
   At the height of protests in July, another opposition leader, speaker of the illegally disbanded parliament, fled to Lithuania, saying that he feared for his life. 
   Then two weeks ago, Victor Gonchar, a leading political dissident, and his friend, a publisher, vanished on an evening outing, even though Mr. Gonchar was under constant surveillance by the security police. Gonchar's wife reportedly contacted city law enforcement agencies, local hospitals and morgues without result. The government maintains that it has no information on his whereabouts. Mr. Gonchar has been instrumental in selecting an opposition delegation to OSCE-mediated talks with the government, and was scheduled to meet with the U.S. ambassador to Belarus on September 20. Earlier this year, police violently assaulted and arrested him on charges of holding an illegal meeting in a private cafe, for which he served ten days in jail. 
   Before President Lukashenko came to office in 1994, one could see improvements in the human rights situation in Belarus. Independent newspapers emerged, and ordinary citizens started openly expressing their views and ideas, opened associations and began to organize. The parliament became a forum for debate among parties with differing political agendas. The judiciary also began to operate more independently. 
   After Mr. Lukashenko was elected president, he extended his term and replaced the elected Parliament with his own hand-picked legislators in a referendum in 1996, universally condemned as rigged. Since then, he has held fast to his goal of strengthening his dictatorship. He has ruthlessly sought to control and subordinate most aspects of public life, both in government and in society, cracking down on the media, political parties and grass roots movements. Under the new constitution, he overwhelming dominates other branches of government, including the parliament and judiciary. 
   The first president of democratic Belarus, Stanislav Shushkevich, and now in the opposition, said recently that the government is resorting to state terrorism by abducting and silencing dissidents. He said, ``the regime has gone along the path of eliminating the leaders against whom it can't open even an artificial case. This is done with the goal of strengthening the dictatorship.'' 
   I am deeply concerned that comments by senior government officials  this past week which betray official indifference to those disappearances. 
   I urge President Lukashenko to use all available means at his disposal to locate the four missing--and to ensure the safety and security of all living in Belarus, regardless of their political views. What is happening in Belarus now is an outrage. The world is watching what President Lukashenko does to address it. 
   Mr. President, I want the Government of Belarus to know that their blatant violation of the human rights of citizens is unacceptable. The report several days ago of four prominent men and women who have had the courage to stand up against this very repressive Government of Belarus raises very serious questions. As a Senator, I want to speak from the floor and condemn that Government's repressive actions. I want to make it clear to the Government of Belarus that these actions, the repression and violation of citizens' rights in Belarus, is unacceptable, I think, to every single Senator. 
   I think many of us in the human rights community are very worried about whether or not they are still alive. I would not want the Government of Belarus to think they can engage in this kind of repressive activity with impunity. That is why I speak about this on the floor of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me, one more time, return to a question I have put to the majority leader, and then I say to my colleague from Arizona I will complete my remarks. 
   In the last 3 weeks now, I have asked for the opportunity to introduce legislation--amendments--which would speak directly to what can only be described as an economic convulsion in agriculture, the unbelievable economic pain in the countryside, and the number of farmers who are literally being obliterated and driven off the land. 
   Up to date, I have not been able to get any kind of clear commitment from the majority leader as to when we will have the opportunity for all of us in the Senate to have a substantive debate about this and take action. For those of us in agricultural States, this is very important. I want to signal to colleagues that I will look for an opportunity, and the first opportunity I get, I will try to do everything I can to focus our attention on what can only be described as a depression in agriculture. I will try to focus the attention of people in the Senate, Democrats and Republicans alike, on the transition that is now taking place in agriculture, which I think, if it runs its full course, we will deeply regret as a Nation. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wonder whether I could ask my colleague, how long will the debate be on the Robb amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I shall not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I speak today in support of Senator DASCHLE's bill titled the Medicare Beneficiary Access to Care Act, S.1678. I am proud to cosponsor this important bill because it will provide relief for health care providers suffering under drastic cuts resulting from the Balanced Budget Act (BBA) of 1997. That legislation has had a very negative impact on the Medicare program and the financial viability of our medical establishments providing care under that program. The Senate Minority Leader's legislation will scale back some of the BBA reductions and therefore provide the necessary reimbursement for providers who give needed medical services to patients. Let me be clear, patients will be the ultimate beneficiaries when this bill is enacted. A basic fact is that any person seeking medical attention will likely visit a medical establishment currently being affected by BBA payment reductions. If medical facilities close due to BBA cuts, it will adversely impact not only Medicare beneficiaries, but all of the citizens in that same community who need access to health care. 
   Back in 1997, I did not support the Balanced Budget Act. In fact, when this came up for consideration back then I said ``Mr. President, this is a huge mistake - a huge mistake.'' Realizing the vital role of Medicare in our country, I thought that we should be going in the opposite direction - providing the opportunity for all Americans to access decent healthcare. Although BBA passed, I did hope that it would not severely impact Medicare beneficiaries or the healthcare establishments that provide their care. Unfortunately, my worst fears have come true. 
   I have had an almost continuous stream of people from Minnesota come into my office and tell me about the dramatic, draconian effects that BBA has had on the ability of medical establishments to provide needed medical services to people in my state. We have heard from large academic teaching hospitals, small rural clinics, home healthcare agencies, skilled nursing facilities, hospices and physicians. It is hard to think of a medical establishment that has not been impacted by these cuts. According to the hospitals in my state, the total impact of BBA cuts for Minnesota over 5 years will be $908 million. The prognosis is really disturbing. We hear many service providers tell us they can not continue their operations because of these cuts. They are going to close their doors and shut down. Some of these establishments are located in rural settings where they are the only hospital or clinic or nursing facility within dozens and dozens of miles. What is going to happen when these facilities close? The answer is that peoples' health will suffer and the communities will suffer economically. The communities will suffer because they don't have a hospital. Businesses will be reluctant to locate in a community that does not have access to healthcare. 
   It doesn't have to be this way. In the United States Senate, we have the opportunity to fix some of the problems created by BBA. Senator DASCHLE's bill will lessen the impact of the BBA cuts on providers, thus benefitting patients. I think this package will make a substantial difference. 
   This bill will help our teaching hospitals by limiting further decreases in the Indirect Medical Education payments. Teaching hospitals are important not only because they train future physicians, but also because they treat a large number of Medicare beneficiaries. For skilled nursing facilities, this bill will repeal the $1500 therapy caps for three years until a new system can be implemented. For Home Healthcare Agencies, this bill postpones the 15% cut in payments for 2 years. For physicians, this bill would smooth out the fluctuations in physician payment rates. For Medicare Plus Choice, this bill provides enrollees with additional time to switch plans if their plan terminates. For clinics, this bill will create a new payment system that is linked to 1999 costs along with subsequent updates. For hospices, this bill will increase hospice payments by the full market basket updates. 
   This bill will allow many medical facilities in my state to continue operating. I'm sure the same holds true for most states. We need to pass this bill now. Health care is too important an issue. Even though not everybody has access to it, we do have a great health care system and it needs to be preserved. The BBA was a mistake, and now is the time to limit some of the resulting adverse consequences. I hope that my colleagues will join me in support of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Might I ask my colleague from Iowa a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before I leave the floor, might I ask my colleagues from Iowa and Pennsylvania a question? I want to know the parliamentary situation. Do we have an agreement for no second-degree amendments and this would only be debated for an hour? Could I get some information about this? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if I could make it clear to the 
   Senator from Iowa, if there is an objection--I thank the Senator from Pennsylvania. I think his unanimous consent request is very much in the spirit of fairness. 
   I say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, if that is not acceptable, kind of sneaking a unanimous consent request in--this is a very important amendment. There ought to be second-degree amendments on every single amendment introduced to this bill forthwith with no time agreement if we are going to play that way. That is just not acceptable. We need much more time and we certainly should have the right to second-degree amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first I will speak to procedure and then to substance. 
   I apologize to my friend from Arkansas, for whom I have a lot of respect even though we do not agree on all issues. I used the words ``sneak through,'' and I should not have said that. He is above board, and I know that. However, I do want to make it clear, my very good friend, Senator HARKIN, was talking to someone when that happened and therefore was not fully aware of this agreement. 
   The fact is, on our side we believe this goes against our understanding of the way we operate. There was no intention of going forward with a unanimous consent agreement that would limit this to 1 hour with no second-degree amendments. 
   I say one more time, I certainly hope my colleague from Arkansas will understand that. I hope he will understand this is above and beyond the debate. We can always debate issues. This is generating a lot of anger and indignation. 
   For my own part, I am committed to doing a second-degree amendment on every amendment that comes to the floor forthwith, with no time limit at all, because I believe this should not have gone this way as a unanimous consent agreement. 
   The reason I feel strongly about the procedure is because of the substance of what this is about. To me, it is a matter of justice delayed is justice denied. I tell you, what is real important in our country is that people have the right to organize and bargain collectively, to earn a decent living, to give their children the care they know they need and deserve. 
   Frankly, we ought to be doing much more by way of labor law reform. But when you cut into the NLRB's budget, and you are going to reduce staff by an additional 100 women and men, the only thing you are doing is you are making it impossible for many working people to have justice. 
   I do not even know the figures because I came rushing to the floor when I heard about this, but there are well over 10,000 people who are illegally fired. And quite often---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Arkansas, I am well aware that it flat-lines, but it is similar to what we talk about with the veterans' health care budget. When you flat-line, and you do not take into account additional inflation, then basically the effect of it is a reduction. 
   My understanding is that you have a reduction of about 5 percent. If that is the effect, and if we cut into the man and woman power requirements of the  National Labor Relations Board, I am unalterably opposed to this because working people in this country have a right to be able to make an appeal. It should not be profitable for companies to illegally fire people. It should not be easy for companies to break the law. When we try to go after the NLRB, what we are doing is going after the rights of working people. 
   So I say to my colleagues, an awful lot is at stake here. The National Labor Relations Board is all about a framework of laws we have set up in our country. It is all about making sure working people have certain rights. I think this amendment guts some of those rights by basically stripping away some of our enforcement power. 
   So I say to my colleague on the other side of the aisle that I do not accept this choice he presents to us. I think my colleague from Iowa probably will be talking about what he has heard from the community health care clinics. But to pit one group of low-income citizens against another group of low- and moderate-income people, working-income people, I think is simply outrageous. 
   Knowing the people I have met who work at the community health care clinics, I doubt the people who work at our community health care clinics are interested in some additional funding for them if that means taking away from the rights of working people. We are basically talking about the same group of citizens--hard working, not necessarily making a lot of money, hoping that they will get a fair shake, hoping that they will get decent health care, or hoping that their rights will be respected. 
   I again say to my colleagues that when you flat-line the budget, you effectively cut the budget. You cut into the NLRB's capacity and ability to represent working people. There will be 
   more and more and more delay. As my colleague from Pennsylvania said, justice delayed is justice denied. That is what this amendment is--it is a justice delayed/justice denied amendment as it affects working people in this country. 
   Therefore, I would like to have the opportunity--we would like to have the opportunity to offer a second-degree amendment. I hope my colleague from Arkansas will reconsider, given the fact that there is, at best, confusion about what happened; and we are hoping we can go on together in good faith. If not, I say, one more time, that for my own part, I will just offer second-degree amendments to every single amendment offered on the other side of the aisle, with no time limit whatsoever. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me say, in good faith, that I am not going to make it open-ended. I am now waiting word from other offices as to who will be down here, so I can't agree to a time limit, although I don't intend to extend it for hours. I have to wait and see how many people want to speak. For right now, I think we should leave it as it was and hope my colleagues will trust me that I am not trying to drag it on and on. I can't agree to that right now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could we have order in the Chamber, please. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would like to object until I look at the change in the language. 
   The wrong page number. I do not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, first of all, let me point out to all of my colleagues that I think the approach we want to take here if we want to have more funding for consultation is to just simply advance that by the $9 million. But the last thing in the world I want to do is take resources away from enforcement, which is the backbone of worker safety. That is really a flaw of this amendment introduced by my colleague from Wyoming. 
   As a matter of fact, at our March 4 hearing, a majority of witnesses were asked why more small businesses do not take advantage of free consultation services available in all 50 States. The majority of the witnesses said--this is not a direct quote, but I will paraphrase--that many small businesses don't think they will get inspected, so it is not economical for them to take advantage of these consultations. They feel no need to. The two are interrelated. When businesses really worry about this and know that in fact there are some enforcement laws we can implement, then they are more likely to go to a consultative service. 
   Again, I really do not understand. It is a little bit similar to the amendment we just had where, on the one hand, you say you have more money for the community health centers and you will take it out of NLRB, which has everything to do with workers' rights to organize, and making sure equally that people who are fired are going to be able to have their day in court and make their appeal, and there isn't going to be a long delay. In that case, justice delayed is justice denied. 
   In this case we have an amendment introduced by my colleague from Wyoming that basically takes resources away from enforcement. Standards and regulations are no more than suggestions. They don't mean anything for working people in this country if there is not sufficient enforcement to back them up. Let me repeat that we can have standards and regulations but it is empty, it doesn't mean anything to someone if they can't be backed up through enforcement. 
   Even with the additions to the President's budget request, OSHA's Federal enforcement funding will fall $3 million below the level it was in 1995. By contrast, during the same period, 1995 to  2000, OSHA's State consultation program has grown from $31.5 million to $40.9 million, an increase of 30 percent. 
   So I question the priorities of this amendment. The very area where we have not kept up and have not made adequate investment in inspection is the very area from which my colleague from Wyoming takes funds and puts them into the consultation program where we have been making the investment. 
   Of the 12,500 most dangerous workplaces in the Nation, OSHA is able to inspect only about 3,000 a year. The other 9,500 will go uninspected unless there is a fatality or catastrophic accident. We need more enforcement resources, not less. I will repeat, we need more enforcement resources, not less. 
   If my colleagues think about the number of people who are killed at the workplace because of an unsafe workplace and the number of people who work with carcinogenic substances which take years off their life or the number of workers who go deaf or suffer other disabling injuries because of an unsafe workplace, I find it almost impossible to believe they are going 
   to take funding away from enforcement. 
   I hope I don't get myself in trouble for saying this, but this is in some ways a class issue. This is in many ways a class issue. Actually, we are not talking about us and we are probably not talking about most of our sons and daughters. But we are talking about blue-collar workers. We are talking about working-class people. The whole idea of OSHA and the whole idea of NIOSH was to make sure that we followed through on our commitment for a safe workplace. The way to make sure that happens is to make sure we have the enforcement resources--not to have less. 
   Let me point out that in 1995 and 1996, when OSHA's inspection activity declined dramatically, so did requests for consultation services. Business for private safety consultants also fell and even vendor sales of safety and health equipment declined as well. 
   I go back again to our hearing that we had March 4. My colleague from Wyoming conducted that hearing where the majority of witnesses said one of the reasons small businesses don't take advantage of the free consultation services is because small businesses don't think they will get inspected. 
   As I hear my colleague speak about inspection, I hear him making the argument that it takes too long. In fact, I agree with him. But if my colleagues are worried about the delay in inspection, the last thing they want to do is cut the budget that deals with inspection. That is illogical. If colleagues are worried about the delay, the last thing in the world they want to do is reduce enforcement resources. 
   I point out to my colleagues this is an important vote. Think about the people you represent in your States: 55 percent of all OSHA inspections are in construction, which continues to be extremely dangerous. In 1998, 1,171 construction workers died on the job. Construction workers are about 6 percent of the workforce, but they comprise about 19 percent of workplace deaths. If we think that is too many workers dying on the job, and if the evidence is overwhelming there are still too many unsafe workplaces, and if Members are concerned about workplace safety, then I do not believe Senators can vote to reduce the resources for OSHA inspectors. 
   Again, I say to both of my colleagues, including my colleague from Arkansas, I don't know why we make this a zero sum game. Why don't we say, yes, let's do even better for consultation. 
   The second-degree amendment I will introduce will say we don't cut enforcement. I don't think we should. I think that just means we will have fewer inspectors, less inspections, and more workers will die. I don't think we should do that. What we could do is maintain the funding for the inspection, which is so key to worker safety, and add the additional money, forward fund the additional money or advance fund the additional money, it is only $9 million, for consultation. Why continue to play off one good idea versus another or help some business or some workers over here but end up hurting other workers over here? 
   I don't understand the premise of this amendment. I think it is flawed. I think enforcement is the backbone of worker safety, and this amendment which takes resources away from enforcement also means there will be less safety for workers. That is why I am opposed to this amendment. That is why I hope this amendment will be defeated. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think Senator KENNEDY may want to speak. I am not sure that we will have anyone else. I don't know that we will need to spend a lot more time. I think the Senator will be back soon. I have not heard from other Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to do so; I will let the Senator know. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My understanding is that the Senator from Pennsylvania is going to try to propound a unanimous consent request. 
   Let me, in 2 minutes, summarize. I appreciate the amendment by my colleagues in Wyoming and Georgia. I think this is an unfortunate tradeoff. I think it is a profound mistake. I think enforcement is the backbone of worker safety. 
   The second-degree amendment we will offer later on would essentially say: We can do better for consultative services, and we can advance some funds there, but we are certainly not going to take it out of enforcement. 
   My colleague from Massachusetts has spoken about this at great length; I have as well. I will not recite the statistics again as to the number of unsafe workplaces and the need for strong inspection. I simply say that the promise of OSHA--not yet realized--is we are going to make a commitment to working people, and we are going to make a commitment that people have a safe workplace. 
   We are not doing as well as we should. We should do much better. But I think it would be a serious mistake for Democrats or Republicans to vote to reduce enforcement. That is a huge mistake. For all who care about worker safety, do not vote to reduce enforcement, to reduce inspection. The laws and the rules and regulations do not mean a thing unless we have the enforcement. That is why I think this amendment is flawed. That is why I hope it will be voted down. 
   Mr. SPECTER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Pennsylvania, we are looking at it right now. If we can have another moment, we will be ready to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent I be able to follow the Senator from Pennsylvania. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with the Senator from Florida, Mr. GRAHAM, on his amendment. 
   I want to respond to my colleague from Pennsylvania. I will start out with Minnesota, and then I will go to the country at large. Actually, in Minnesota, for reasons I will explain, these social service programs and funding are passed directly to counties. The State cannot replace the money with tobacco money or anything else, and certainly not for next year, which is a bonding legislature. But above and beyond that, in any case, the tobacco money has already been spent for other programs. 
   The point is, we do not know what will happen. This is what my colleague concluded. We do not know what will happen with these programs that are so important to poor people, to vulnerable people, elderly people, people with disabilities. To cut the social service programs by 50 percent and then say  States have tobacco money so we will count on them to do it is an abandonment of our commitment. It is an abandonment of our commitment. 
   What we have done is cut the social services block grant program by more than half. What my colleague from Florida has done--and I am pleased to join him in this amendment--is to restore the funding to the full formula amount of $2.38 billion. We are talking about programs that are so important to the lives of the most vulnerable citizens in our country: The elderly, the very young, the poor, and the disabled. 
   The question is, What is this SSBG fund? Are we talking about something important? 
   Yes, we are talking about something important, if you think adoption services, congregate meals, counseling services, child abuse and neglect services, day care, education and training services, employment services, family planning services, foster care services, home-delivered meals, housing services, independent and transitional living services, legal services, pregnancy and parenting services, residential treatment services, services for at-risk youth, and special services for families for the disabled and transportation services are important. If we think these services are important, then how in the world can we cut this funding by 50 percent? 
   I respect my colleague from Pennsylvania. He has done the very best, given the budget caps under which he has worked. But I do not believe a good argument against the amendment we have introduced is: Well, there is tobacco money out there and the States can use that money. 
   Some States do not have that money to use. Some States can't use that money. In any case, whatever happened to our commitment at the Federal level to try to fund some services that would help the most vulnerable citizens in our country? That is my question. 
   Let me talk a little about some of these programs and then go further with the argument I want to make. Let me take Meals on Wheels. Why do we not think about this in personal terms? I think, I say to Senator GRAHAM, we are going to get support for this amendment. I believe we can pass this amendment. Are Senators going to vote to cut funding for the Meals on Wheels program? That is a program for people, many of them elderly, many of them disabled. Both my parents, for example, had Parkinson's disease. They might not even be able to get to congregate dining, which is a great program. They might not even be able to get into town; they cannot drive. Quite often there is not the transportation. In Minnesota it is cold; it is wintry weather. Maybe during the winter they cannot get out and freely move around. So you have the Meals on Wheels program where you deliver a hot lunch, a nutritious meal, to elderly citizens. And we are going to cut this program? 
   Let me repeat that. We are going to cut this program? We can do better. We can do much better. 
   Talk about independent and transitional living services; here we have some services--I will talk about this in some detail--that would enable an elderly person or someone with a disability to live at home in as near normal circumstances as possible, with dignity. It is a range of support services. It might be nursing services, community health outreach services, making sure those people are able, with a little help, to stay at home. We are going to cut this program, potentially by half? We are going to cut services that enable people to live at home with dignity as opposed to being put into a nursing home? We cannot do that. We cannot do that. 
   According to the Title XX Coalition, in fiscal year 1997 more than 1.1 million elderly people and over 740,000 people with disabilities benefited from the social services program. State and local prevention and treatment services reached over 2.3 million children and their families. I thought we cared so much about the elderly. I thought we cared so much about the children. I thought we cared so much about making sure at least there is an investment in some resources that will enable people with disabilities to live lives with independence and dignity. That is what the disabilities movement is all about. We cannot say that if we cut these services, if we cut these programs by over 50 percent. 
   In my home State of Minnesota, SSBG funds are used, in some counties, to augment child care for single women and their families. We talk about the importance of moving from welfare to work, but if a mother works and cannot find child care or cannot afford child care, how is she going to do it? Or if you have working poor people and they work 52 weeks a year and they work 40 hours a week and one of them is working or both of them are working, affordable child care is a hugely important issue for them. There are not Senators in this Chamber who would not want to make sure their children were able to get good child care. And we are cutting into services for child care? 
   Many Minnesota counties use SSBG money for home care services for the elderly. We are talking about funds to pay for a care giver to go to a vulnerable elderly person's home and help them with ``home chore services,'' such as taking their medicine on time and in the right doses, keeping their homes clean and safe, helping people take a bath, making sure there is food in the refrigerator. 
   I am sorry, I am not going to get worked up, but I do not understand how in the world we can justify cutting those services for elderly people. I do not understand that. That is exactly what we went through with my mother and father in Northfield, MN. That is exactly the struggle we had in trying to help them stay at home. We did all we could among Sheila, myself, and our children. 
   Sometimes one needs some help. At the county level, if there is a public health outreach program, somebody can help elderly people to make sure they take their drugs, to make sure they take the right dosage, to help someone like my dad who had Parkinson's disease and his body shook and my mother was not able to help him take a bath, to help people live at home, help people keep their independence. This is mean-spirited to cut these programs. 
   We cannot say: Well, but there is the tobacco money and States can use tobacco money. We do not know whether all States can. We do not know whether all States will and, in any case, this is a commitment that we have made in the Senate. We are a national community. Can we not as a national community, represented by the Senate, Democrats and Republicans alike, at least make a commitment to fund these services that are so important for vulnerable people? 
   I was speaking with Marien Brandt, the human services director in Sibley County, MN, a rural county, who told me her county spends SSBG funds primarily to serve vulnerable populations who are not eligible for assistance under other funding programs. She suggested that many of the people her agency serves would be forced into institutionalized care without SSBG funds. 
   She gave me the example of the child who might have to go into an out-of-home placement if her agency becomes unable to provide counseling services that help the child's parent learn to adequately care for and protect that child. 
   The vulnerable adults they help with SSBG money tend to be elderly people, seniors, disabled people who get home health care services, people they help stay at home, the very people about whom I talked. 
   If we are talking also about counseling services for parents and for children at risk, what in the world are we doing cutting those services? Marien told me that in Sibley County, SSBG money is used especially in the rural areas to fund transportation for the elderly and the disabled so they can go to the doctor, so they can buy groceries, so they are simply not isolated. 
   Let me point out what we are doing. All too often we say SSBG and people do not know what we are talking about. And we throw the money around: increase $1.2 billion, subtract $1.3 billion. I will translate it into personal services. Here is an example of one of many counties--I could take hours on this--where we use this money to provide transportation. Sometimes it is not the big buses. Sometimes it is smaller, a dial-a-bus so an elderly person can go to the doctor, people can go to the grocery store, they can go to congregate dining, they  can go places and they are not isolated. What in the world are we doing cutting this funding by 50 percent? 
   This SSBG money, I say to my colleague from Florida, is used to fund services for people who otherwise would fall through the cracks. This money is used to provide services for the most vulnerable citizens in our country. 
   I do not understand exactly--I understand what my colleague from Pennsylvania said. He cares a lot about these budgets as they affect people. But I really do not know how we got to the point where we cut these social service programs by 50 percent. I do not understand that. I am afraid one of the things I think happens is that quite often, when we work under these caps--I do not know if my colleague from Florida will be angry with me for saying this, so therefore maybe I will not, now that I think about it. 
   We put ourselves into fictional politics. These caps do not work, and everybody seems to be locked in with these caps. We are engaged in mutual deception. Nobody wants to talk about breaking the caps. That is not what this amendment does, although advance funding, whatever, we all know we need to spend more. 
   In my opinion, this amendment goes to the heart of what this debate is all about. We ought not, I say to the Presiding Officer--a good Senator--to be cutting these kinds of programs. These programs are for the most vulnerable citizens in our country. We ought not to be cutting programs that enable someone to get Meals on Wheels, that enable someone to go to congregate dining, that provide home health care services so people can stay at home rather than being institutionalized, that provide child care, help for families so they can afford child care. We ought not to be cutting these kinds of services by 50 percent. I fear one of the reasons we end up doing it is that these are the citizens who do not have the clout. It is just too easy to make cuts based upon the path of least political resistance. It is just too easy to cut services for the very poor and the most vulnerable. This is wrong. 
   This amendment goes to the heart and soul, I hope, of the Senate. 
   I will not go over reports from many counties, but I want to talk briefly about how my own State is going to be impacted. 
   Minnesota communities currently receive $41.6 million annually. If these proposed cuts are enacted, Minnesota is going to lose $23.2 million in funding. We will receive only $18.3 million in fiscal year 2000. 
   We are unique, I will concede that point, because by law the SSBG funds bypass the Governor and flow directly to the local level. The State cannot touch the money. We cannot add or subtract funds from the block grant. 
   Minnesota law further requires local level programs to run balanced books, which means they cannot carry any budget surplus from one year to the next. What this means, if these cuts to the SSBG go through, the State will not be able to offset any of the lost funds with funds from other sources. The local level programs will have no budget surpluses to fall back on, and these Federal level program cuts will be reflected immediately in local level cuts; in other words, right there in the counties where the people live. 
   It would mean substantial reductions or perhaps even the elimination of local Minnesota programs. 
   So when I come to the floor and speak about this with some sense of urgency, it is because we could lose senior congregate dining. We could lose Meals on Wheels. We could lose a host of other local community-based programs that are so important to our citizens. 
   It would also mean cuts in health and substance abuse programs. Minnesota is one of only seven States in the country that relies more heavily on title XX grants than its SAMHSA grant to fund mental health services. We are going to see draconian cuts in mental health services as well. 
   Furthermore, next year, in my State it will be a ``bonding legislature,'' one in which they will not be able to consider policy issues. So the Minnesota Legislature is not going to be able--I think my colleague from Florida was alluding to this in other States--to take up any legislation to change the law governing the flow of SSBG funds in 2001. 
   I will tell you, I give the example of Minnesota because this is one hugely important issue in my State. But I also want to say to my colleagues that Senator GRAHAM has done a good job of talking about how this is going to affect all of the States. In a report that was put out yesterday, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities explained that if the Senate Labor-HHS appropriations bill becomes law, SSBG funding will have been cut 87 percent since 1977 in inflation-adjusted terms--87 percent. An SSBG cut of the magnitude proposed in this bill will substantially reduce our State's ability to provide services to vulnerable children, to elderly, and disabled people. 
   This amendment, that I am proud to cosponsor with Senator GRAHAM, is an effort to say to the Senate that we have to do the right thing and that we must restore full funding for the title XX social services block grant program. 
   I will wait to hear if there is debate on the other side. I have many more examples to present from many counties in my State, both rural and urban. But I will repeat it one more time. As far as I am concerned, the fundamental core question for us to address, the issue for us to debate, is whether or not we in the Senate want to cut the social services programs that are so important to the most vulnerable citizens in our States--important to elderly people so they can have transportation and not be so isolated; important to people like my parents, who are no longer alive, so someone can come to their apartment and help them live at home when they have a disabling disease; important to a family where the single parent is working and she wants to make sure there is affordable child care; important to the person with disabilities so he or she can live at home with dignity; important for people who are not well enough and cannot even physically be able to go to congregate dining, who need Meals on Wheels, so someone can come and deliver them a nutritious meal. 
   By the way, the Meals on Wheels program is inadequately funded right now. We cannot cut these critically important programs and services that make life better for vulnerable citizens in our country. We cannot do this. 
   The States have a tremendous amount of leeway in how they use their SSBG funds, and this is one program in which they are able to try to develop innovative and creative programs to help the poor and needy (people with incomes up to 200 percent of the poverty line are eligible for SSBG funds). Title XX only specifies that the money be used to help people achieve and maintain economic self-support and self-sufficiency to prevent, reduce, or eliminate dependency. The law also allows the money to be used for services that prevent or remedy neglect and abuse, and to prevent or reduce unnecessary institutional care by providing community-based or home-based non-institutional care. States use this money to care for people who would otherwise slip through the cracks; these funds are critical for the well-being of the most vulnerable people among us--the elderly and the very young, the poor, and the disabled. These are people who most need our help, and we should not be slashing the very money that is most likely to serve them. 
   Title XX of the Social Security Act specifies that $2.38 billion is to be provided to the States for fiscal year 2000. The Senate Labor-HHS appropriations bill, though, slashes funding for this block grant to only $1.05 billion. This cut comes on top of a 15 percent cut to the block grant made as part of the 1996 welfare reform law, a cut that the states reluctantly accepted only with a commitment from Congress that we would provide stable funding for the block grant in the future. I am pretty sure that a 50-percent cut doesn't qualify as stable funding by anyone's definition. 
   And what kind of a message do we send to the States when we talk about cutting block grant funds? Congress sold welfare reform to the states on the promise that they would have the flexibility to administer their own social service programs. But as the National Conference of State Legislatures point out, ``these cuts [to the SSBG] would set the precedent that the federal government is reticent to stand by its decision to grant flexibility to states in  administering social programs.'' SSBG funds are used by the states to provide services for needy individuals and families not eligible for TANF, and to reduce federal Medicaid payments by helping vulnerable elderly and disabled live in their homes rather than in institutions. States also use SSBG funds for child care services and other supports for families moving from welfare to work. When Congress proposes slashing these funds, we send a clear, and I believe extremely damaging, message to the States. I think we are telling them not to invest in these kinds of social support programs, because they just can't count on the money being there. 
   But let's just say for a minute that we do go back on our word and break our commitment to the States--so what? What exactly does SSBG fund? Anything important? 
   Only if you think adoption services, congregate meals, counseling services, child abuse and neglect services, day care, education and training services, employment services, family planning services, foster care services, home delivered meals, housing services, independent and transitional living services, legal services, pregnancy and parenting services, residential treatment services, services for at-risk youth and families, special services for the disabled, and transportation services are important. All of these programs are funded, in part at least, through the SSBG. 
   According to the Title XX Coalition, in fiscal year 1997, more than 1.1 million elderly people and over 740,000 people with disabilities benefited from SSBG. State and local prevention and treatment services reached over 2.3 million children and their families. The SSBG also reached 1.5 million individuals and families by supporting their physical and mental well-being, and by helping them overcome barriers to employment and economic self-sufficiency. And child care-related services were provided to over 2.3 million children through SSBG. 
   In my home State of Minnesota, SSBG funds are used in some counties to augment child care for low-income single women and families. Even with these additional funds, there are currently huge waiting lists for subsidized day care in most counties. If we further cut the title XX funds, these county level programs are going to have to reduce or eliminate services that they provide. And when a single mom who has just gotten off welfare and is trying to make ends meet while she starts 
   working at her new job, loses the subsidized day care that she counts on, what do you think is going to happen? Which do you think is more likely--that she'll be able to afford to pay for day care herself, or that she'll be forced to go back onto welfare? 
   Many Minnesota counties use SSBG money for home care services for the elderly. These counties use SSBG funds to pay for a care giver to go into a vulnerable elderly person's home and help them with basic ``home chore'' services like taking their medicine on time and in the right doses, keeping their home clean and safe, taking a bath, or making sure there is food in the refrigerator. These are simple, basic services, but they often mean the difference between allowing someone to stay in their own home or being forced into an institution. If SSBG funds are cut, vulnerable elderly are likely to lose home care services like a visiting nurse or case management person, which might then force them into a nursing home or an assisted living situation that would, in the end, cost much more money. 
   I was speaking with Marien Brandt, the Human Services Director in Sibley County, Minnesota who told me that her county spends SSBG funds primarily to serve vulnerable populations who aren't eligible for assistance under other funding programs, and she suggested that many of the people her agency serves would be forced into institutionalized care without SSBG funds. Marien gave me the example of the child who might have to go into an out-of-home placement if her agency becomes unable to provide counseling services that help the child's parent learn to adequately care for and protect that child. The vulnerable adults they help with SSBG money tend to be elderly people, seniors or disabled people, who get home care services--someone to come in to help them clean their home and maintain a safe environment, bathe, have food to eat, to see that they take the right amount of medicine when they are supposed to. Oftentimes these people are not eligible for medical assistance, so there is not another source of funding available to them when they are living in the community. What will happen if SSBG funds are cut is that they will wind up having to go into a nursing home in order to qualify for funds to pay for their care. 
   Marien told me that in Sibley County, SSBG money is also used, especially in rural areas, to fund transportation for elderly and disabled, so they can access services like doctors, getting groceries, and just simply so they are not so isolated in their home (a ride to the senior center, perhaps). There is no other funding source that will pay for this. For disabled people who are just over eligibility guidelines for medical assistance, SSBG money is used to help meet their needs--managing medication, transportation, and community based services like training and counseling. 
   The way Marien explained it to me, her county basically counts on SSBG money to pay for services for people who otherwise fall through the cracks. They count on this money to provide simple, basic services that keep the most vulnerable among us in their homes and out of much more costly institutions. 
   Sue Beck, the Director of Human Services in Crow Wing County, Minnesota told me a similar story. She explained that her county also counts on SSBG funds to make sure that vulnerable populations, the elderly, the disabled, children, and poor people, have the services they need to live economically secure, self-sufficient lives. Over the past several years, due to SSBG cuts that have already been 
   imposed, her county has had to cut back services in transportation and ``chore services''--for disabled and elderly people who need just a little bit of help--things like help shoveling snow or grocery shopping. They use SSBG money currently to augment their employability budget--to provide supported employment, and community based employment for people who other wise might not be able to compete successfully in the job market. All of this is at risk when we talk about cutting SSBG in half. 
   Dave Haley, from the Ramsey County Department of Human Services also told me about his county spends SSBG money. The first example he gave me was that of a typical family of a single-mother who has three young children. The oldest child, a 7-year-old boy, has missed a significant number of school days. The mother is experiencing problems with chemical dependency and involved in a violent relationship with her boyfriend. The mother cannot make sure that the child gets up every day on time, and is promptly fed and dressed for school. The family does not have a car or other personal means of transportation. Through programs partially funded with SSBG money, the County is able to provide support to the mother to resolve her chemical dependency problems and domestic abuse. Services ensure that the seven-year-old is attending school on a regular basis and the boy is beginning to make academic progress. 
   There are over 2,000 young children in Ramsey County currently in this situation. Ramsey County and local school districts have been able to develop a very active program to address these educational neglect issues and insure that children attend school on a consistent basis. They will be forced to scale back this effort, though, if SSBG funds are cut by more than 50 percent. 
   Another example that Dave gave me is that of a 30 year-old woman that is living in her own apartment in her home community. Thirty years ago, a similar individual with moderate mental health needs would have been placed in a state hospital miles from their family home. Over the last three decades, needed supports have been developed, including programs to monitor and assist individuals in managing their medications, checking on their money management and assisting when necessary with proper budgeting, teaching needed independent living skills, and employment support to maintain their current job. Without periodic weekly checks, the individual would have great difficulty managing their daily life, and might be forced  into an institutionalized living situation. 
   The system that has developed over the last three decades has not only improved the lives of hundreds of people in Ramsey County, it has also enabled the state and federal government to save hundreds of thousands of dollars on more expensive institutional care. 
   Currently, Ramsey County receives $5 million in SSBG funding. If this were reduced by half, it would affect far more than what I have briefly mentioned. SSBG money also supports chemical dependency prevention efforts, homemaker and other support services for seniors to prevent nursing home placement, and support efforts for families with a child with developmental disabilities to enable the family to stay together and avoid or delay out of home placement, to name only a few. If these funds are not restored, all of these programs, and all of the people they serve, will suffer. 
   So you tell me, which of these programs deserves to go, because something is 
   going to have to if this provision passes. Who do you think we should turn away? Maybe low-income families with children? Or perhaps the elderly or disabled? What difference does it make if someone goes to bed hungry, or homeless, or just plain afraid that they won't make it through tomorrow? We have a budget cap to maintain, after all. And that is what this Congress has defined as really important here, right? Not helping our constituents, or keeping our commitments to the States, because I certainly don't see how anyone in Congress could argue differently when I see an effort like this to eliminate one-half of the SSBG funding. 
   In my own State of Minnesota, these cuts will have an immediate and deeply felt effect. Minnesota communities currently receive $41.6 million annually. If the proposed cuts are enacted, Minnesota will lose $23.2 million in funding, receiving only $18.3 million in FY 2000. 
   Minnesota is unique among all the states, though, because, by law, SSBG funds by-pass the governor and flow directly to the local level. The state cannot touch the money--they can neither add nor subtract funds from the block grant. Minnesota law further requires local levels programs to run balanced books. Which means that they cannot carry any budget surplus from one year to the next. So what that means is that if these cuts to the SSBG go through, the state will not be able to help offset any of the lost funds with funds from other sources, the local level programs will have no budget surpluses to fall back on, and these federal level cuts will be reflected immediately at the local level in program cuts. It would mean substantial reductions, or perhaps even the elimination of local Minnesota programs like senior congregate dining, Meals on Wheels, and a host of other local community based programs. It would also mean cuts in health and substance abuse programs, as Minnesota is one of only seven states in the country that relies more heavily on its Title XX grant than its SAMHSA grant to fund mental health services. Furthermore, because next year will be a ``bonding legislature,'' one in which they will not be considering policy issues, the Minnesota legislature will not be able to take up legislation to change the law governing the flow of SSBG funds until 2001. 
   So some of my colleagues may be saying to themselves, well that's unfortunate for Minnesota, but in my home state we'll be able to supplement the cuts with other money--maybe the money we got from the tobacco settlement, or perhaps we will just transfer money from our TANF surplus. First, let's talk about the tobacco settlements: in some states, anti-smoking and other health needs will receive first priority for use of the settlement funds, not unanticipated reductions in SSBG funds. Also, some states have already enacted legislation committing the tobacco funds for other purposes. Okay, well, then if not the tobacco settlement funds, then maybe the TANF surplus funds. But right now, seven states--Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nevada, Oregon--currently have no unobligated TANF funds. And if the House gets its way, 3 billion dollars in TANF surpluses will be rescinded from the states. This will leave another 12 states--Alabama, Connecticut, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North Dakota, Utah, and Vermont--who if they used every single cent of their remaining TANF surplus still won't have enough money to cover the lost SSBG funds. That's a total of 19 States, more than a third of all states, that won't have the social service funds available to offset the SSBG funding cuts proposed in this bill. 
   I have here a letter from a group called ``Fight Crime, Invest in Kids,'' which is an organization made up of over 500 police chiefs, sheriffs, prosecutors, victims of violence, and violence prevention scholars, written in support of this amendment. They write to explain that recent cuts in SSBG have short changed child care, child abuse prevention, removal and placement of abused children, drug treatment, and other critical crime prevention investments. 
   As they point out in this letter, one of the Government's most fundamental responsibilities is to protect the public safety. To meet that responsibility, Congress must close the crime-prevention gap--the gaping shortfall we ought to be making to help our Nation's children get the right start. 
   The Graham-Wellstone amendment to restore funding to the SSBG would provide over $591 million to protect children from abuse and neglect. Since abused and neglected children are almost twice as likely to become chronic offenders, it is clear that these services can have an important crime prevention impact. The amendment would also provide $300 million to support child care in 47 states. A study by the High Scope Foundation showed that quality child care can dramatically reduce the chances of children becoming criminals. It is clear that we must continue to provide the funds for these programs, and we can only do that by restoring the title XX grant to its full formula amount. 
   In a report they put out yesterday, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities explained that if the Senate Labor-HHS appropriations bill becomes law, SSBG funding will have been cut by 87 percent since 1977 in inflation-adjusted terms. An SSBG cut of the magnitude proposed in this Senate bill will substantially reduce the States' ability to provide services to vulnerable children, elderly, and disabled people. Please, do the right thing and restore the SSBG money by supporting the Graham-Wellstone amendment to restore full funding for the Title XX Social Services Block Grant. 
   If the Senate does not support this Graham amendment, then, in my view, the Senate does not have a soul. If the Senate does not support this Graham amendment, then, in my honest to God opinion, the Senate does not have a soul. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. COVERDELL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, for the information of my colleague, I was so overwhelmed with this past vote, I was so moved by this past vote to give me an opportunity to speak even more on the floor of the Senate, that I am now going to vitiate that part of the unanimous consent agreement to have a vote on this second-degree amendment so colleagues could leave. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object and I shall not--I do not think I will--as I understand this unanimous consent agreement, this will be the FAA bill with relevant amendments. Does the majority leader intend to bring up the nuclear waste bill? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I can do a quick followup, the reason I asked the majority leader was actually less because of the subject matter of that bill but the question whether or not he also plans on restricting it to relevant amendments. What I am asking is, when will I have an opportunity as a Senator from Minnesota to bring legislation to the floor of the Senate which will alleviate the economic pain and suffering of family farmers? That is what I want to know. Are we going to have an opportunity for debate on agriculture policy? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. With an opportunity for other amendments dealing with agriculture.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the majority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. First of all, I ask unanimous consent that an intern, Jonathan Wettstein, be granted floor privileges during the duration of this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me just say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, and, for that matter, to the people in our country who are watching the debate or those who are writing about this debate, that if Republicans want to block grant an additional $1 billion or so, having some sense of what it will be for, above and beyond the commitment we have made to our school districts--which has everything in the world to do with not only what teachers but students tell me they really need, namely, more teachers for smaller class sizes--we might be for it. 
   But that is not what this is about. I have been in a Minnesota school about every 2 weeks for the last 9 years. I was  at Centennial High School just 2 days ago--on Monday. We were talking about education, I say to my colleague from Washington. 
   I always say to students: You are the experts. Tell me, given your experience--they were juniors and seniors, from a very good school--what works? What are the things you think work best? Also, tell me where you think the gaps are, where you think the weaknesses are. The first thing students talk about is smaller class size. That is the first thing they talk about. 
   We have used this commitment from the President and what Democrats have pushed through for this last year to hire an additional 519 teachers in the State of Minnesota. That makes a difference to our State. I do not want to see these 519 teachers who are adding--not subtracting, but adding--to the education of young people in our schools in Minnesota receive pink slips, to be without work. I do not want to see that happen. I do not want to see us retreat from the commitment we have made. 
   A lot of people back in our States are fairly cynical about what we are doing or what we are not doing in the Nation's Capital, what we are doing or not doing in the Congress. 
   One of the programs that people really respond to is sort of the way people view the Cox program, this initiative we have taken, which is working. What infuriates school districts, what infuriates the education people, who we should be supporting in all our States, is when we go down the road of a commitment, we come up with something that is not bureaucratized, we come up with an initiative that makes all the sense in the world, that speaks directly to the challenges we are faced with in our schools, that provides the funding for school districts to hire more teachers so they can reduce class size, which is really appreciated, which really makes a difference, all of a sudden we go back on that commitment. That is what this is all about. 
   This amendment, on the part of Senator GORTON from Washington, is an effort to essentially negate the commitment we have made, which is what Senator MURRAY and Senator KENNEDY and all of us are speaking for. 
   As I listened to my colleagues on the other side speak, I think there is also a philosophical difference. It is not true that we in the Congress do not or should not think of our country as a national community. We should. We are a national community. There are certain kinds of values that inform us. 
   Sometimes we come to the floor and support legislation, and hopefully pass legislation, that says to every child in America, no matter where he or she lives, no matter what State, no matter what district, no matter rural or urban or wealthy school district or low-income school district, we are going to do everything we can to make sure that child has an opportunity to do well. That is a commitment we make for our national community. We are going to say this is a priority. We are going to focus on this priority. We are going to fund this priority. 
   What Senator MURRAY has said is, we have made that commitment. The priority that we have outlined is that we make the commitment to provide the funding for the school districts, if they want, so they can use that funding to hire more teachers to reduce class size. We know this is important, important to the students in this country, important to the students in Minnesota, important to the students of Illinois or Washington or Massachusetts. That is what we have done. That is what this debate is all about. 
   The Republicans on the other side of the aisle want to basically go back on this commitment. They want to say no, we don't want to do that. We are simply going to undercut the commitment. They haven't authorized it yet. 
   Let me tell Senators, there are a lot of us who would like to have a lot of substantive debate about education, including authorizing this bill in committee, getting it out on the floor. That can't be used as an excuse. 
   What we have from Republicans is a counterproposal which essentially means that we go back on this commitment and we block grant this money. We wipe out this program. We wipe out this commitment. We wipe out this priority. We no longer say that as a Federal Government, as a Congress, as a national community, we are committed to getting more resources to school districts so they can hire more teachers and reduce class size. 
   If my colleagues on the other side think there isn't a lot of support in their States for this initiative, they are making a big mistake. 
   What my Republican colleagues want to do is say: We will just block grant this. The money can be spent however it can be spent. We don't establish the priorities. We don't think of this as a national community. We don't think of this effort to reduce class size as an important enough priority that we should continue to fund it. 
   That is an outrageous proposition. All of us will be held accountable for our vote. 
   Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will make one more point, unless there are any colleagues on the floor who need to speak right away. 
   I think there is a kind of difference between Democrats and Republicans, a difference above and beyond a philosophical question, which is that we are prepared to say this is a priority and stand by this priority, and we are not prepared to walk away from the commitment we have made to school 
   districts or a commitment we made to children or a commitment we made to teachers or a commitment we made to education. We are not going to walk away from that commitment. Our Republican colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to. 
   The other problem is this pattern of funding. Here is a Republican 5-year history of cutting education funding: I remember the 1995 rescission, a cut of $1.7 billion. That was a House bill. Fiscal year 1996, $3.9 billion below 1995, House bill; fiscal year 1997, a cut of $3.1 billion; fiscal year 1998, $200 million less than the President's proposal; fiscal year 1999, $2 billion below the President's proposal. 
   It is incredible to me. I was on the floor with Senator BOXER, Senator FEINGOLD, Senator DURBIN--there were a number of Senators involved. We were saying: Wait a minute; we now see an effort on the floor of the Senate to feel so sorry for these big oil companies that have been caught cheating; they ought to pay their fair share of taxes, but some of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle were right there for these oil companies. They wanted to make sure they got their breaks, wanted to make sure they didn't have to pay their fair share, wanted to make sure they got this benefit. That is a priority. You can be for big oil companies or you can try to work out deals for this special interest or that special interest. 
   We are arguing that children and education is a special interest. We are arguing that this is a special program. We are arguing this is a special program that has worked very well. We are arguing that we made a commitment to our school districts to continue this funding. We are arguing that it would be simply unconscionable, indeed, unacceptable, for this Senate to now abandon that commitment after 1 year of a successful program. 
   We speak against it. We fight against it. We are proud to vote for the Murray amendment. All of us will be held accountable. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I ask my colleague from Michigan whether or not this unanimous consent request can be modified to include other amendments; for example, some amendments that deal with how we improve farm policy or amendments on minimum wage? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if that is the case, as I explained to the majority leader earlier, I am determined that I am going to have an opportunity as a Senator from Minnesota to come out here on the floor of the Senate and to fight for farmers who are losing their farms in my State, and therefore I object.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this weekend, the McAuley Institute, Wider Opportunities for Women, the Center for Women Policy Studies, and the Howard Samuels State Management and Policy Center of CUNY hosted a national conference on the important relationship between welfare reform and higher education. On Friday night, they held an opening night reception and awards ceremony. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend, but I ask to have printed in the RECORD a letter that was read on my behalf as part of the ceremony. 
   The letter follows. 
 September 24, 1999.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment is to express the sense of the Senate--that is all we are doing--that lung cancer, colon cancer, and brain and central nervous system cancer should be presumed to be service-connected disabilities as radiogenic diseases. 
   Colleagues, I am talking about Nagasaki and Hiroshima, atomic veterans who were in Nevada and Utah. They went to ground zero. Our government never told them they were in harm's way, never gave them any protective gear. It is just unbelievable, the incidents of cancer, and all I am saying is that we just right an injustice. We should make sure they get the health care they deserve; they should get the compensation they deserve. We do this presumption for Agent Orange and Vietnam vets. We should. We do it for  Persian Gulf veterans. We should. We ought to do it for these atomic veterans. They have been waiting a half century. I understand the Department of Veterans Affairs is opposed to the Senate going on record with a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. 
   Let me just say that Ken Kizer, former Under Secretary of Health for the Department of Veterans Affairs, wrote that this is a mistake and that given our position on gulf war veterans and Agent Orange veterans, it is a matter of equity and fairness. 
   Please vote for this, colleagues. It is absolutely the right thing to do. These veterans have been waiting for justice for a half century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
   Mr. KERRY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would like to engage the distinguished Ranking Member of the VA/HUD Appropriations Committee in a brief colloquy regarding two important projects which I believe deserve support. 
   Mr. President, over the past years there has been an alarming increase in the need for adolescent treatment programs. The Mash-ka-wisen facility in Sawyer, MN, has recognized this need and therefore proposes the construction of a culturally specific treatment program designed for adolescents. The presence of an eighteen-bed adolescent treatment center will serve American Indian adolescents from throughout the Bemidji Indian Health Service Area, which includes the states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. For the past twenty years, the existing center in Sawyer, MN, has served American Indians in need of alcohol and drug treatment with a culturally specific recovery program. As a result of their commitment, the Center has a national reputation, as well as one of the very highest treatment success rates in the nation. The Minnesota Indian Primary Regional Treatment Center has requested $2 million to fund the construction of their adolescent treatment facility. 
   I also wish to call your attention to the request of $1.7 million by Northeast Ventures Corporation of Northern Minnesota. During the last 15 years, Northeastern Minnesota has experienced severe economic losses. Since 1989, Northeast Ventures has provided capital support for micro enterprises in the region. In addition to the assistance that Northeast Ventures has provided, its not for profit affiliate, the Northeast Entrepreneur Fund, has been providing financial and technical support services to unemployed and underemployed men and women in Northeastern Minnesota. In reaction to the special economic needs of the Iron Range, a second not for profit affiliate, Iron Range Ventures, works specifically to provide investments in the Iron Range. Together these organizations have helped to provide the region with assistance that has led to gradual economic recovery and diversification. A HUD Special Purpose Grant will make it possible for this organization and its not for profit affiliates to provide additional support to existing and emerging businesses in the region. $850,000 will support the expanded and enhanced delivery of services and capital to small businesses and the remaining $850,000 will support increased investment in the Iron Range area of northeastern Minnesota. 
   I am aware of the difficult financial constraints under which the VA/HUD Appropriations Subcommittee worked this year, and I appreciate the Ranking Member's willingness to engage in a colloquy on these important projects. So I would simply ask my colleague from Maryland if she agrees with the importance of including these two projects in the VA/HUD appropriations bill and is willing to work towards earmarking $2 million for the Mash-ka-wisen treatment facility and $1.7 million for Northeast Ventures Corporation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator for her commitment to seek funding for these projects for the next year. I am grateful for her continued support and to know she will support these projects in the upcoming conference committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Pension Benefits Protection and Preservation Act of 1999, a bill that will protect the hard earned pensions of millions of American workers. 
   Mr. President, this legislation is long past due because big companies across America have been deserting their traditional defined benefit pension plan which promised a fair retirement to their long-time workers in favor of new ``cash-balance plans'' which promise less to loyal employees and more to CEO's who are already receiving record salaries, stock options and benefits. It is simply unfair for companies to discriminate against the very workers who have made those companies so successful. 
   Older employees who have been forced into these cash-balance plans are finding their eventual pensions cut by 20-50 percent, and sometimes even more. This conversion technique is saving corporate America billions of dollars, but it is older workers who are paying the price. The technical and actuarial issues of cash-balance conversions may be complex, but what is simple is that Congress must act now to put transition safeguards in place to protect the retirement security of the American worker. 
   Earlier this week, the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee heard testimony from long-time IBM employees who were shocked on July 1, 1999, to find that the accrued balance in their pension plans had been slashed up to 50 percent overnight. Why? Because IBM decided to join the corporate conversion parade and convert its defined benefit pension plan that had promised a secure retirement to IBM employees into a plan that left trusted employees both insecure and embittered. IBM employees, including those in my state of Minnesota, used their knowledge of the Internet to organize, to communicate and to ultimately win major, but not fully adequate, concessions from IBM. But most employees of most companies don't have that kind of on-line sophistication. And no employees should have to rely on protests in order to preserve what they have already earned. 
   That is why I am introducing this legislation. The Pension Benefits Protection and Preservation Act of 1999 offers a comprehensive approach to the difficulties of employees faced with cash-balance conversions. This measure will ensure fair treatment of American workers by requiring disclosure, pension plan choice, elimination of the ``wear-away'' of pension benefits, and enforcement of the Age Discrimination and Employment Act. 
   Workers have a right to know how much of a pension they will receive when an employer unilaterally changes its pension play. My bill required a detailed disclosure at least 45 days before a plan conversion becomes effective, if that conversion significantly reduces the pension benefits of employees. This gives employees adequate time to compare the benefits they would receive under the old plan with those of the new. 
   That time to compare plans is critical because my bill penalizes employers who significantly reduce employee pension benefit unless employees are able to knowledgeably choose between old and new plans. Employers who do significantly reduce benefits and fail to allow choice will be liable for an excise tax equal in amount to 50 percent of the surplus in the pension fund of the company. What the threat of this penalty does is to direct pension monies where they belong--into the retirement benefits that employees receive, not into shareholder pockets or stock options of highly paid CEO's. 
   The Pension Benefits Protection and Preservation Act of 1999 also eliminates the ``wearing-away'' of employee's accrued pension benefits by preventing company pension plans from giving participating employees an opening account balance in their ``new'' plan that is lower than their already accrued pension benefits to date under the old plan. Under my bill, companies will no longer be able to engage in that tactic; instead, they will be required to continue to pay into workers' pension accounts without regard to the amount of pension benefits workers have accrued under their old plan. 
   Finally, the bill directs the Secretary of the Treasury to enforce the existing pension age discrimination law enacted in 1986. 
   Mr. President, 25 years ago this month ERISA, the Employee Retirement Security Act, was enacted. Congress passed ERISA to put an end to broken pension promises and to protect working men and women. Twenty-five years later what we see instead is ERISA neither adequate--nor adequately enforced--enough to protect workers' pensions. 
   Pension funds belong to the workers, not the employer, and we must put in place a strong safety net to prevent those funds from being raided in the guise of being improved. That is why I am introducing the Pension Benefits Protection and Preservation Act of 1999 today, and that is why I am asking my  colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I do not yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I believe I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question, without losing my right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, probably about an hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Wyoming, I understand the point he is making about the connections to money at an individual level. I am not here to make that argument. I think there is a different argument that could be made about the need for reform. 
   What I want to do is go back to what I think is the issue. To me, the issue is that the Hutchison amendment is an outrageous provision. The reason we are out here on the floor is, we want people in the country to know about it. We all have to be accountable. 
   It was offered to the Interior appropriations bill. Now, because of this successful effort to get cloture, this  amendment, if it goes into law, which it will, will restrict the Interior Department from doing its job, which is to make sure that the oil companies pay their full royalties. I thank the Senator from California for having the courage to come out and take on this effort and for having the courage to make this an issue, a very public issue in the country. 
   The reason we are out here is that behind this amendment lies an unbelievable story. The Interior Department's Mineral Management Service, MMS, simply wanted to collect the money that these oil companies owe the public. Many of the industry's largest companies have been consistently underpaying their royalties. They are not paying their taxes. Ordinary people, which I mean in a positive way, in Illinois or Minnesota, they pay their taxes. These companies have not been paying their taxes, not the fair share. 
   Last year, Mobil Oil agreed to a $56.5 million settlement of Federal and State lawsuits alleging underpayment of royalties. They agreed to the settlement. Also, according to 
   the Wall Street Journal, not exactly a bastion of liberalism, Chevron Corporation has agreed in principle to pay approximately $95 million to resolve a civil lawsuit charging that Chevron shortchanged the American public. That is what has been going on. 
   There have been a flurry of other settlements--$2.5 billion in Alaska, $350 million in California, $17.5 million in Texas, $10 million in Louisiana, and $8 million in New Mexico. Remember, this oil belongs to the public. What we have been saying to these companies is: Go ahead, take the oil, but all we ask, as the public, is for you to pay the market value. I don't think that is too much to ask, nor do the people of this country think it is too much to ask. Apparently, the big oil companies do. If there was a poll in the country, 99 percent of the people would be with my colleague from California. 
   Let me be clear about one thing: We are not talking about all of the oil companies. We are not talking about the mom and pop independents. We are talking about large integrated companies that sell to affiliates at undervalued prices. They make up only 5 percent of the oil companies drilling on the Federal land, but they account for 68 percent of the Federal production. 
   The Interior Department, up to the time of this Hutchison amendment, was developing regulations to stop this highway robbery. People get angry. People work hard. They pay their taxes. Then they see these big oil companies that say: We don't have to pay our taxes. 
   This is not new authority. Interior always had the statutory authority to collect royalties on the fair market value. But what the Hutchison amendment would do would essentially negate what the Interior Department was trying to do. What was the Interior Department trying to do? These new regulations would keep the oil companies from manipulating ``fair market value'' to underpay their royalties. 
   That is what they have been doing. They have been cheating. This is the question I ask my colleagues: Do these companies, these large integrated oil companies, deserve our sympathy? I don't think so. They have been caught. Let me repeat that. They have been caught. They have been caught underpaying their royalties. They have been cheating the public. That is what they have been doing. 
   My colleague from Texas and some other Senators come to the floor and they want to do a special favor for the big oil companies. The reason we are out on the floor is, even if we lost on the cloture vote, I say to my colleague from California and other Senators, we don't lose this vote, not really. We don't lose this fight, not really, because I think people in the country are absolutely outraged. 
   We are talking about $66 million a year that could be going to the environment, to schools, to our children. We are talking about big oil companies that basically seem to think--my colleague from Wisconsin was out here on the floor, and I guess other Senators didn't appreciate what he was doing. But with all due respect, this is a reform issue. How is it that we have so much sympathy, how is it we care so deeply, how is it we feel the pain of these oil companies, how is it we are so much at their service, and yet, when it comes to families that can't afford child care, we don't have the same sympathy? When it comes to making sure we make the investment in education for our children, we apparently don't have the same sympathy. 
   I was at a press conference with my colleague from Vermont, Senator JEFFORDS, a Republican. We were talking about the current course, which is going to be about a 12- to 14-percent cut in low-income energy assistance in a cold weather State. We are talking about grants of maybe $285, but it makes a huge difference. Do my colleagues know that for around 85-, 90,000 households in Minnesota, a third of them are elderly; 70 percent of them are working poor? 
   This means there is a grant so that during the cold winter months in Minnesota--we have a few of those months--we make sure those families, in trying to pay their heat, are still also able to afford food, or elderly people don't give up on prescription drugs. 
   What do we have here? We have a Senate, by virtue of the vote on the floor of the Senate, which basically does the bidding for these big oil companies. All of our sympathies are for these companies. My colleague from California has had the courage to confront this, to take this on. The reason we are taking our time this afternoon, I say to the Senator from California, is that we want as many people in the country as possible to know about this. That is right; absolutely, that is right. 
   I said, when the Senator was out, I have no doubt--and I thank her for her effort; I know she must be getting tired--I have no doubt that 99 percent of the people in this country are on your side. I say that to the Senator from California. People are outraged by this. This is another example of too few people, with too much power, having too much say over how the Senate operates, and the vast majority of the people are left out. 
   It is interesting; my colleague from Massachusetts, Senator KENNEDY, just gave me a summary of what happened today on the House side in the Subcommittee on Education of Appropriations. Unbelievable. They cut $1.2 billion in money that would have gone to reduce class size. My daughter is a Spanish teacher. I asked her the other day, ``What size classes do you have this year?'' She said, ``36 and 38.'' Those are two of her classes. Those classes need to be smaller. 
   Then I was talking to my son, who has two small children in elementary school. In the third grade class, there are 28 students. We know if we reduce class size, teachers would have more time to spend with these kids, and they can do better. Today, on the House side, our Republican colleagues cut this--title I funding, $264 million below the President's request. 
   I have to talk about this for a little while. This is unbelievable. Albeit, I was literally on this one, in a minority, but we had all this discussion about Ed-Flex and all that we were going to do with title I. At the same time, our title I funding for low-income children in our country is about a third of the level of what it should be if we were to reach all the kids. This is money that is used for teaching assistants, more teachers, more parent outreach, higher standards, and making sure that kids who fall behind can meet those standards. Today, we are essentially cutting title I. How could the $66 million be used? We can hire a thousand teachers; we can put 44,000 new computers in the classrooms; we can buy textbooks for 1.2 million students; we can provide 53 million hot lunches for schoolchildren. 
   So I can't understand when some of my colleagues come out on the floor and say this is not the issue. This is the issue. These oil companies have been cheating. They haven't been paying their fair share of taxes. They were able to get some Senators to come out here as a favor to them and make sure they are able to continue to basically not pay their fair share of taxes. We give up $66 million, and the choice becomes not the mom-and-pop operations, but huge, big, integrated oil companies. 
   Do I have sympathy on the side of big oil companies, or am I on the side of children? That is an easy question for me and the vast majority of people in this country to answer. It is interesting; when we talk about the whole issue of cheating the public, I want to point this out on the floor of the Senate. Now we are talking about cheating  the public. Now we are talking about the Interior Department wanting to basically put into effect the regulation that makes sure the big oil companies could not cheat the public. Now we are talking about an effort that basically is an effort to undo this regulation, undo the work of the Interior Department. 
   The Interior Department is essentially saying to people: You know what. We, as a Government agency, are going to make sure the oil companies pay their fair share, which is what people believe in. People get angry because they think we are well-connected, and if you make huge contributions--which is 
   what my colleague from Wisconsin was talking about--and you are a heavy hitter and you have lobbyists, you can get special deals. People hate that. They get furious about it. I don't blame them. 
   I heard a lot about cheating and all the rest when we had the welfare debate. It is interesting. We have all this sympathy for the ``poor,'' large oil companies. They come in here and, apparently, for some of my colleagues, we can't do enough for them, even when they are not paying their fair share. But you know, it is interesting; we never have any of the same sympathy for poor mothers and children. 
   I have been out on the floor of the Senate trying to get at least some honest policy evaluation of how this welfare bill is working. I get something passed on the Senate floor, and it is taken out in conference committee. As I was saying, how about some sympathy for others? Maybe if they are not as well connected, or maybe if they don't have all of the income, we still ought to care about them. 
   So if we hear from Families USA that since that welfare bill passed, there are 670,000 fewer children who have medical coverage, we ought to be concerned. If we hear from the U.S. Department of Agriculture that there has been a dramatic rise in the number of hungry and food-insecure families in the country, maybe we ought to be concerned. And if we know there has been about a 25-percent drop in food stamp participation, maybe we ought to be concerned. 
   If we hear that most of these mothers are getting jobs that are barely above minimum wage, and then they lose health care coverage and they don't find good child care for their children, maybe we should be concerned. If it is the case, as it is the case in Minnesota--and I will bet in a lot of other States as well--that we can't even make the rent subsidy program work any longer because there is no affordable low-income housing, so the fair market value is above what would make anybody eligible, and that people can't even find housing and they can't cash-flow--they would have to make $12 or $13 to be able to cash-flow to afford any affordable housing for themselves and their children, and if the most dramatic rise in the homeless population is women and children, maybe we should have the same concern. But we don't. 
   We are concerned for these oil companies that have been caught cheating, but we are not concerned for low-income women and children. We are concerned for these oil companies that have been caught cheating. There is not enough we can do for them, but we are not concerned about funding title I. We are not concerned about making sure we fund low-income energy assistance. We are not concerned about making the investment to reduce class size. We are not concerned about affordable child care. We are not concerned about making sure that we fully fund and make the investment we ought to make in veterans' health care. 
   But we can't do enough for these oil companies that have been caught cheating. 
   I think this debate we have been having, this sort of fight on the floor of the Senate speaks volumes on what is at stake. Let me simply, one more time, repeat what I said earlier. This amendment is an outrageous provision offered to the Interior appropriations bill. What it does is it basically restricts the Interior Department from doing its job. What the Interior Department was trying to do was make sure the oil companies pay the full royalties for the oil they are drilling on Federal or Indian land. Therefore, we lose, roughly speaking, $66 million a year. Therefore, the choice becomes: Do you hire a thousand teachers? Do you put 44,000 new computers into the classrooms? Do you buy textbooks for 1.2 million students? Do you provide 53 million hot lunches for schoolchildren? Or do you basically come down on the side of the big oil companies? 
   Well, I am proud to say on the floor of the Senate that I am not the Senator for the big oil companies or the big insurance companies or the pharmaceutical companies. They already have great representation in Washington, DC. It is the rest of the people who need it. That is what Senator BOXER has been trying to do--represent the rest of the people in this country. That is what I am proud to do out on the floor of the Senate. 
   It is interesting. October is going to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month. It is so important that in October we focus on the violence in families. About every 13 seconds a woman is beaten and battered in her home. A home is supposed to be a safe place. About every 13 seconds, that is a conservative figure. All too many children witness this violence, as well. 
   As it turns out, we also at this time are recognizing the 25th anniversary of Women's Advocates, which was the Nation's first battered women's shelter located in St. Paul, MN. I have a lot of pride when I talk about the staff and when I talk about the volunteers and the supporters of Women's Advocates. 
   In 1974, the doors of this shelter first opened for women and their children who were seeking some respite from violence. It took a lot of courage and for women to stand up to this. 
   To date, this wonderful, special place has provided advocacy shelter and advocacy and support services to over 25,000 women and children. They spend countless hours teaching our schoolchildren and community members about the impact. Women's Advocates stands as a pillar of grace and triumph. I hail executive director, Elizabeth Wolf, and all the courageous women. 
   But what is interesting to me--I raise this question because, again, I come out on the floor of the Senate and I say: Can't we do more to try to stop this violence? Can't we have more safe visitation centers to protect children and women? Can't we make sure we do more by way of supporting children who witness this violence in their homes--some 3 to 5 million children? Can't we do more to make sure these women who have been battered and who have experienced this violence can afford housing when they leave these shelters? Do you know what the answer is from my colleagues? No. We can't make that investment. We don't have the money. But when the oil companies that have been cheating and have been caught cheating come here and they say, please give us a special break, please give us a special favor, we find it easy to give them our sympathy and to give them what they want. 
   How interesting it is. This is an issue of representation. How interesting it is that when we are talking about children in our schools, when we are talking about working families that can't afford child care for their children, when we are talking about men and women who work in our child care centers and have to leave because they can't make a living wage, therefore, there is all this turnover--the Washington Post had an excellent piece about this not too long ago--and when we are talking about whether or not people who work almost 52 weeks a year, 40 hours a week, shouldn't be able to have a living wage and we should raise the minimum wage, or when we are talking about whether or not can't we do more by way of affordable houses, or when we are talking about how we can't expand the Pell grant program to make sure higher education is more affordable, we don't have any sympathy; we don't have any resources; there is nothing we can do. 
   But when it comes to these big oil companies, when they come here and they say, please give us a special favor, we have been cheating and now the Interior Department is going to say we can't cheat any longer and we have to pay our fair share of taxes, we ask you to fix that. That is exactly what the crux of the amendment is. That is exactly why we are speaking on the floor with a tremendous amount of indignation. 
   The question becomes one of representation. I think this 
   actually is what my colleague from Wisconsin was  trying to speak to. Why do the wage earners, these working families, these children and women who are experiencing violence, children who witness that violence, why don't their concerns seem to carry any weight and yet the concerns of the poor large oil companies that have been caught cheating seem to matter? What is going on here? 
   I think this is a huge problem. I think this has everything in the world to do with the need for reform. This has to do with a mix of money and politics. This has to do with: Who are the players? Who are the contributors? Who are the heavy hitters? Who are the well connected? Who can get Senators to do their bidding? 
   I tell you, it is outrageous. That is why I am on the floor to say it is outrageous. It is absolutely outrageous. 
   I have another question. I have a different question. This one is very near and dear to my heart. 
   Why do we have all of this concern for these poor big oil companies that have been caught cheating and don't want to pay their fair share but we don't have the same concern for family farmers who right now are going under? We are going to lose another 6.57 percent of our family farmers in Minnesota. These producers are going to go under. We want to come out here and we want to say raise the loan rate. 
   I say to my colleague from Michigan, I would be pleased to finish up a little bit earlier. I will finish up in a few minutes. I have other colleagues wanting to speak. I will make one final point. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my colleague from Michigan be allowed to follow me. I still have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take my time. 
   Let me simply raise another question, which is if we have all of this concern for these big oil companies, and we want to prevent the Interior Department from making sure they can pay full royalties, then why don't we have the same concern for family farmers in the State of Minnesota? Why don't we have the same concern for the producers in my State? Many of us from the farm States want to come out here and we want to talk about raising the loan rate. I have a proposal that I want an up-or-down vote on to put a moratorium on these acquisitions and these mergers. 
   We want to talk about antitrust action. We want to talk about fair trade policy. We want to know why the conference committee can't even get the emergency assistance to our farmers who are going under. 
   But it seems as if when it comes to family farmers in Minnesota, or, for that matter, Illinois, or in our country, or when it comes to education for children, or when it comes to veterans' health care, or when it comes to low-income energy assistance, or when it comes to affordable housing, or when it comes to what we can do about reducing violence in homes, the brunt of the violence directed at women and children, we don't have very much sympathy. But we have all of the sympathy in the world for these poor oil companies that have been caught cheating because, after all, they are the ones that are the well connected. They are the ones that have the resources. They are the ones that seem to make a difference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question. I would like to keep the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to keep the floor and yield for a unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, there is so much more I want to say right now, but I am pleased to yield to that request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. And I have how much time after? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I take 30 seconds to summarize? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask the question, How does it come to be that these large oil companies have generated so much of our sympathy, have enlisted so much of our sympathy? They have been caught. Let me repeat that: They have been caught underpaying their royalties. They have been cheating. And we have all of the sympathy for these big oil companies. 
   But when it comes to children, when it comes to family farmers, when it comes to doing something about reducing violence in homes, when it comes to raising the minimum wage, when it comes to affordable child care, when it comes to affordable health care, when it comes to so many of the issues so important to families in our country, we don't seem to have the same sympathy. 
   This debate goes to the heart of what is at stake in the Senate. What is at stake is, Whom do we represent? Are we Senators for the big oil companies or are we Senators for the vast majority of citizens in our country who are asking Senators to get serious with good public policy that will make a difference for them, make a difference for their children, make a big difference for our communities? 
   That is what this is about. Do we have representative democracy where the vast majority of people are heard or do we have a system where we have democracy for the few, where the big oil companies come here and work out their special deals? That is what they have done, America. That is so outrageous. That is what is so unconscionable. That is why we are taking the time this afternoon to make sure every single citizen in this country understands what has happened here. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to offer a sense-of-the-Senate amendment that speaks to the frustrating and infuriating obstacles that have too often kept veterans who were exposed to radiation during military service from getting the disability compensation they deserve. This amendment would put the senate on record as being in favor of adding three radiogenic conditions to the list of presumptively service-connected diseases for which atomic veterans may receive VA compensation, specifically: lung cancer, colon cancer; and tumors of the brain and central nervous system. It is based on a bill I introduced during the last Congress S. 1385, the Justice for Atomic Veterans Act. 
   But before I speak on the merits of this amendment, I'd like to talk about the frustrating and infuriating obstacles that have beset this amendment in the Senate. I offered an amendment to make the needed change in the law on S. 4, the Soldiers', Sailors;', Airmen's, and Marines' Bill of Rights Act of 1999. It was accepted and adopted by the Senate by voice vote. When it became clear that S. 4 was dead on arrival in the house, I offered this amendment to the Defense Department authorization bill. Again, the amendment was accepted, but it was stripped out in conference. I mention the history of this amendment to my colleagues in the belief that what was acceptable to the Senate three months ago will be acceptable today. But to put my colleagues on notice that this time I am going to insist on a roll call vote and to make it clear that I will be back to offer the actual amendment as many times as I have to so that justice can be done by the atomic veteran. 
   I believe that the way we treat our veterans does send an important message to young people considering service in the military. When veterans of the Persian Gulf war don't get the kind of treatment they deserve, when the VA health care budget loses out year after year to other budget priorities, when veterans benefits claims take years and years to resolve, what is the message we are sending to future recruits? 
   How can we attract and retain young people in the service when our government fails to honor its obligation to provide just compensation and health care for those injured during service? 
   One of the most outrageous examples of our government's failure to honor its obligations to veterans involves ``atomic veterans,'' patriotic Americans who were exposed to radiation at Hiroshima and Nagasaki and at atmospheric nuclear tests. 
   For more than 50 years, many of them have been denied compensation for diseases that the VA recognizes as being linked to their exposure to radiation--diseases known as radiogenic diseases. Many of these diseases are lethal forms of cancers. I'm sure many of my colleagues have seen the recent headlines about the exposure of workers at the nuclear plant in Paducah, Kentucky. The story of the atomic veteran is very much the same. 
   I received my first introduction to the plight of atomic veterans from some first-rate mentors, the members of the Forgotten 216th. The Forgotten 216th was the 216th Chemical Service Company of the U.S. Army, which participated in Operation Tumbler Snapper. Operation Tumbler Snapper was a series of eight atmospheric nuclear weapons tests in the Nevada desert in 1952. 
   About half of the members of the 216th were Minnesotans. What I've learned from them, from other atomic veterans, and from their survivors has shaped my views on this issue. 
   Five years ago, the Forgotten 216th contacted me after then-Secretary of Energy O'Leary announced that the U.S. Government had conducted radiation experiments on its own citizens. For the first time in public, they revealed what went on during the Nevada tests and the tragedies and trauma that they, their families, and their former buddies had experienced since then. 
   Because their experiences and problems typify those of atomic veterans nationwide, I'd like to tell my colleagues a little more about the Forgotten 216th. When you hear their story, I think you have to agree that the Forgotten 216th and other veterans like them must never be forgotten again. 
   Members of the 216th were sent to measure fallout at or near ground zero immediately after a nuclear blast. They were exposed to so much radiation that their Geiger counters went off the scale while they inhaled and ingested radioactive particles. They were given minimal or no protection. They frequently had no film badges to measure radiation exposure. They were given no information on the perils they faced. 
   Then they were sworn to secrecy about their participation in nuclear tests. They were often denied access to their own service medical records. And they were provided no medical follow-up. 
   For decades, atomic veterans have been America's most neglected veterans. They have been deceived and treated shabbily by the government they served so selflessly and unquestioningly. 
   If the U.S. Government can't be counted on to honor its obligation to these deserving veterans, how can young people interested in the military service have any confidence that their government will do any better by them? 
   Mr. President, I believe the neglect of atomic veterans should stop here and now. Our government has a long overdue debt to these patriotic Americans, a debt that we in the Senate must help to repay. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help repay this debt by supporting this amendment. 
   My legislation and this amendment have enjoyed the strong support of 
   veterans service organizations. Recently, the Independent Budget for FY 2000, which is a budget recommendation issued by AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), endorsed adding these radiogenic diseases to VA's presumptive service-connected list.  
   Let me briefly describe the problem that my amendment is intended to address. When atomic veterans try to claim VA compensation for their illnesses, VA almost invariably denies their claims. VA tells these veterans that their radiation doses were too low--below 5 rems. 
   But the fact is, we don't really know that and, even if we did, that's no excuse for denying these claims. The result of this unrealistic standard is that it is almost impossible for these atomic veterans to prove their case. The only solution is to add these conditions to the VA presumptive service-connected list, and that's what my amendment does. 
   First of all, trying to go back and determine the precise dosage each of these veterans was exposed to is a futile undertaking. Scientists agree that the dose reconstruction performed for the VA is notoriously unreliable. 
   GAO itself has noted the inherent uncertainties of dose reconstruction. Even VA scientific personnel have conceded its unreliability. In a memo to VA Secretary Togo West, Under Secretary for Health Kenneth Kizer has recommended that the VA reconsider its opposition to S. 1385 based, in part, on the unreliability of dose reconstruction. 
   In addition, none of the scientific experts who testified at a Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee hearing on S. 1385 on April 21, 1998, supported the use of dose reconstruction to determine eligibility for VA benefits. 
   Let me explain why dose reconstruction is so difficult. Dr. Marty Gensler on my staff has researched this issue for over five years, and this is what he has found. 
   Many atomic veterans were sent to ground zero immediately after a nuclear test with no protection, no information on the known dangers they faced, no badges or other monitoring equipment, and no medical follow up. 
   As early as 1946, ranking military and civilian personnel responsible for nuclear testing anticipated claims for service-connected disability and sought to ensure that ``no successful suits could be brought on account of radiological hazards.'' That quotation comes from documents declassified by the President's Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments. 
   The VA, during this period, maintained classified records ``essential'' to evaluating atomic veterans' claims, but these records were unavailable to veterans themselves. 
   Atomic veterans were sworn to secrecy and were denied access to their own service and medical records for many years, effectively barring pursuit of compensation claims. 
   It's partly as a result of these missing or incomplete records that so many people have doubts about the validity of dose reconstructions for atomic veterans, some of which are performed more than fifty years after exposure. 
   Even if these veterans' exposure was less than 5 rems, which is the standard use by VA, this standard is not based on uncontested science. In 1994, for example, GAO stated: ``A low level dose has been estimated to be somewhere below 10 rems [but] it is not known for certain whether doses below this level are detrimental to public health.'' 
   Despite persistent doubts about VA's and DoD's dose reconstruction, and despite doubts about the science on which VA's 5 rem standard is based, these dose reconstructions are used to bar veterans from compensation for disabling radiogenic conditions. 
   The effects of this standard have been devastating. A little over two years ago the VA estimated that less than 50 claims for non-presumptive diseases had been approved out of over 18,000 radiation claims filed. 
   Atomic veterans might as well not even bother. Their chances of obtaining compensation are negligible. 
   It is impossible for many atomic veterans and their survivors to be given ``the benefit of the doubt'' by the VA while their claims hinge on the dubious accuracy and reliability of dose reconstruction and the health effects of exposure to low-level ionizing radiation remain uncertain. 
   This problem can be fixed. The reason atomic veterans have to go through this reconstruction at all is that the diseases listed in my amendment are not presumed to be service-connected. That's the real problem. 
   VA already has a list of service-connected diseases that are presumed service-connected, but these are not on it. 
   This makes no sense. Scientists agree that there is at least as strong a link between radiation exposure and these diseases as there is to the other diseases on that VA list. 
   Mr. President, you might ask why I've included these three diseases in particular--lung cancer; colon cancer; and tumors of the brain and central nervous system--in my amendment. The reason is very simple. The best, most current, scientific evidence available justifies their inclusion. A paper entitled ``Risk Estimates for Radiation Exposure'' by John D. Boice, Jr., of the National Cancer Institute, published in 1996 as 
   part of a larger work called Health Effects of Exposure to Low-Level Ionizing Radiation, includes a table which rates human cancers by the strength of the evidence linking them to exposure to low levels of ionizing radiation. According to this study, the evidence of a link for lung cancer is ``very strong''--the highest level of confidence--and the evidence of a link for colon and brain and central nervous system cancers is ``convincing''--the next highest level of confidence. So I believe I can say with a great deal of certainty, Mr. President, that science is on the side of this amendment. 
   Last year, the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee reported out a version of S. 1385, the Justice for Atomic Veterans Act, which included three diseases to be added to the VAs presumptive list. Two of those diseases, lung cancer and brain and central nervous system cancer, I have included in my amendment. The third disease included in the reported bill was ovarian cancer. Mr. President, I'd like to explain why I substituted colon cancer for ovarian cancer. It is true that the 1996 study I just cited states that the evidence of a linkage for ovarian cancer to low level ionizing radiation is ``convincing,'' just as it is for colon cancer. But Mr. President, there are no female atomic veterans. The effect of creating a presumption of service connection for ovarian cancer is basically no effect--because no one could take advantage of it. However, the impact of adding colon cancer as a presumption for atomic veterans is significant; atomic veterans will be able to take advantage of that presumption. 
   The President's Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments agreed in 1995 that VA's current list should be expanded. The Committee cited concerns that ``the listing of diseases for which relief is automatically provided--the presumptive diseases provided for by the 1988 law--is incomplete and inadequate'' and that ``the standard of proof for those without presumptive disease is impossible to meet and, given the questionable condition of the exposure records retained by the government, inappropriate.'' The President's Advisory Committee urged Congress to address the concerns of atomic veterans and their families ``promptly.'' 
   The unfair treatment of atomic veterans becomes especially clear when compared to both agent orange and Persian Gulf veterans. In recommending that the administration support S. 1385, Under Secretary for Health Kenneth Kizer cited the indefensibility of denying presumptive service connection for atomic veterans in light of the presumption for Persian Gulf war veterans and agent orange veterans. 
   In 1993, the VA decided to make lung cancer presumptively service-connected for agent orange veterans. That decision was based on a National Academy of Sciences study that had found a link only where agent orange exposures were ``high and prolonged,'' but pointed out there was only a ``limited'' capability to determine individual exposures. 
   For atomic veterans, however, lung cancer continues to be non-presumptive. In short, the issue of exposure levels poses an almost insurmountable obstacle to approval of claims by atomic veterans, while the same problem is ignored for agent orange veterans. 
   Persian Gulf war veterans can receive compensation for symptoms or illnesses that may be linked to their service in the Persian Gulf, at least until scientists reach definitive conclusions about the etiology of their health problems. Unfortunately, atomic veterans aren't given the same consideration or benefit of the doubt.  
   Mr. President, I believe this state of affairs is outrageous and unjust. The struggle of atomic veterans for justice has been long, hard, and frustrating. But these patriotic, dedicated and deserving veterans have persevered. My amendment would finally provide them the justice that they so much deserve. 
   Let me say this in closing, Mr. President: As I have worked with veterans and military personnel during my time in the Senate, I have seen a troubling erosion of the federal government's credibility with current and former service members. No salary is high enough, no pension big enough to compensate our troops for the dangers they endure while defending our country. Such heroism stems from love for America's sacred ideals of freedom and democracy and the belief that the nation's gratitude is not limited by fiscal convenience but reflects a debt of honor. 
   Mr. President, this is one of those issues which test our faith in our government. But the Senate can take an important step in righting this injustice. I urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join me in helping atomic veterans win their struggle by supporting by supporting my amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator from Maryland for her support. I am honored to have her support. I know the atomic veterans thank her. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Very quickly, I ask to have my name included as a cosponsor. I say to my colleagues, I appreciate this effort. I have done a lot of work with this around the country. I believe we can do better. I will have an amendment I will introduce shortly to deal with that question. 
   I thank my colleague from Missouri. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleagues. I will send an amendment to the desk shortly. 
   Let me speak about this amendment. It is on the same subject matter. My colleague from West Virginia did a good job of outlining problems with the flatline budget. What we have had the last several years is a budget that has led to a decline, unfortunately, in the quality of health care for veterans. The presiding Chair has been a real leader in this area. I think he is very familiar with this. 
   Part of the problem is that the budget not only does not deal with gaps in veterans' health care, or the need to deal with a lot of veterans who are homeless--I think it is a shameful statistic when, some believe, maybe up to one-third of the homeless population are veterans--or the need not to do better for drop-in centers for veterans as an alternative to institutionalized care. 
   I say to my colleague from Maryland, perhaps the biggest gap is an ever-aging veteran population and the fact this carries with it very real challenges in delivering care to this part of the veteran population in a humane and dignified manner. 
   What this amendment which I will send to the desk does, it is consistent with the veterans independent budget. It will call for an increase of an additional $1.3 billion. I say this to my colleagues: This amount of resources for veterans' health care does not come out of thin air. This is based upon an independent budget which was produced by major veterans 
   organizations--VFW, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans, and the Vietnam Vets. 
   What this budget does is something that I think is terribly important. It corroborates the findings of a report I was able to issue on the floor of the Senate not that long ago called ``Flatline Veterans Health Care and Fiscal Year 2000 Budget.'' I sent a copy out to all of my colleagues. Let me summarize the conclusion of this report.  
   Without a doubt, the men and women of the VA health care system will continue their effort to provide quality health care regardless of what future budgets hold. However, the majority of the 22 VA directors report without a significant infusion of new funds, the future is one of fewer staff, offering fewer services and treating fewer veterans.  
   Let me be clear about what is at stake. I appreciate the amendment we just passed, but the truth of the matter is it does not meet the needs. I want all of my colleagues to understand I came out with this amendment with Senator JOHNSON and 99 Senators voted to increase the amount of veterans' resources, to increase the budget, by exactly this amount of money. We have squeezed about as much money out of this as we can. The VA health care system is desperately short of resources. I think we absolutely have to do better. 
   This amendment means the difference between an aging World War II veteran driving 6 hours to a hospital for care and the same veteran visiting an outpatient clinic in his own community. The amendment could mean the difference between a week's wait and several months for an appointment at a mental health clinic for veterans suffering from PTSD. The amendment could be the difference between cost-effective and humane care instead of responding to a crisis. 
   Again, I want to make this clear. My colleagues are on record: 99 Senators voted to support an extra $3 billion above the President's request for the VA. That is exactly what this amendment calls for. This was an amendment to the budget resolution offered by my friend from South Dakota, Senator JOHNSON. It passed the Senate 99-0 and raised the Senate budget to the level recommended by the independent budget. I think it is now time to make good on that vote. 
   Finally, let me be clear. I think there is a powerful claim that veterans can make. I say to my colleague from Missouri, I will read from this study and what I have heard from the regional directors. It is unbelievable. They are making it clear with an additional $500 million or $600 million there are still huge gaps. If we are really serious about dealing with these gaps, if we are really serious about adequately funding VA health care--and I think the veterans have a moral claim--I think this is a commitment we made to our veterans, this amendment for the additional $1.3 billion brings us to the level that really will deal with these glaring gaps. 
   As a matter of fact, again we had a 99-0 vote to increase the funding to exactly the level called for in this amendment. 
   I want to be clear. I have been critical of our President, Democratic President. I felt the flatline budget in the original budget proposal that came from the White House was no way to say thanks to the veterans. I have tried to work with colleagues on all sides of the aisle on this question. But in many ways I am on fire on this question. I really believe we have to live up to a commitment we have made. 
   Let me read from a ``Dear Colleague'' letter that I think brings this into sharp focus:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 20 of these VISNs would have funding shortfalls under the Clinton budget. Twenty out of 22 VISNs reported that the Clinton administration's fiscal year 2000 budget would result in a shortfall of funds necessary to provide either current services or current services combined with new mandates and demands. 
   As many as 10,000 employees would be cut under the Clinton budget. Nineteen of the 22 VISNs indicated that staff reductions would be necessary under this budget. Altogether, the VISNs reported that staffing levels would have to be reduced by as many as 10,000 employees through a combination of attrition, furloughs, buyouts, and reductions. 
   Ten of these would reduce patient workload under the President's budget; 71,000--and then I will get to my colleague's improvement to talk about why I think it is an improvement but falls short of what we should be doing--71,129 fewer veterans would be served under this budget. 
   Let me go to the negative impact of the Clinton budget, plus the additional $500 or $600 million that we have here. 
   I asked them on the $500 million, the majority of VISNs reported on the budget $500 million above the President's proposal. It is $500 million above, which is not quite the level that my colleague from Missouri has proposed. 
   Again, here is what we hear: 12 reported they would experience shortfalls in providing services; 13 talked about reduced staffing; and, again, 38,000 fewer veterans would be served. And over and over and over again what I heard from these directors, which reflected the independent budget report by these veterans organizations, is: Senators, if you want to honor your commitment to veterans, if you want to say thanks to us, then you have to recognize the impact, the dramatic negative impact of these flatline budgets. 
   I say to my colleagues on the floor, I am being scrupulously, if you will, nonpartisan in my critique. The President's budget was woefully inadequate. But what these veterans organizations did, since we have been saying to them for years, ``Stop being so negative; tell us what you need,'' is they got together in an excellent coalition effort. They put together this independent budget, and they talked about what we would need to do to help an increasingly aging population, what we would need to do to make sure we had adequate staff, what we would need to do to make sure that staff wasn't doubling up on hours, what we would need to do to make sure there were not longer waiting lines, what we would need to do to get more community-based care not only to elderly veterans but to veterans who are struggling with posttraumatic stress syndrome--what we would need to do to honor our commitment. 
   This amendment by our colleague is a step in the right direction. It is what the House has called for, but it is not what Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America--let me simply read from this letter from PVA, and then I say to my colleague from New Hampshire, if he wants to speak on this amendment, I will finish up.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I just simply say to my colleagues, we are on record supporting this increase in funding. We voted for it 99-0. In addition, I have three pieces of evidence to support this. 
   Our own Senate Veterans' Committee said this is really what we need. That is what our Senate Veterans' Committee said. I sent out, because I could not get a straight story from the Veterans' Administration, a survey to all these different VISNs, and 22 directors responded. They said: This is what we need. And they talked about staff reductions and longer waiting lines and what they really needed. 
   Finally, the veterans organizations themselves spent a considerable amount of time studying the needs of veterans and came up and said: Listen, this is the shortfall. If you really want to make a commitment to us, if you really want to deal with some of these deficiencies, if you really want to deal with some of these gaps in health care, if you really want to say thanks to us, whatever money you are going to have in the surplus--which will go wherever--you ought to at least honor your commitment to us. 
   That is what this amendment asks my colleagues to do. I hope there will be a strong vote for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to take a question.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from South Dakota, first of all, I appreciate his support and his work, as I do the support of my colleague from New Hampshire. 
   I remind my colleague from South Dakota that when we started out working on this and brought the amendment before the Budget Committee, where colleagues voted to what would now raise this $1.3 billion above the amendment from my colleague from Missouri up to the $3 billion difference between what the administration had and what the veterans independent budget said we needed, we were doing this on the basis of just lots of meetings and conversations with veterans. 
   My colleague gives some very good examples. It is not a question of political strategy. I was very moved by this letter from PBA. One of the things they say to me and say to us, I say to Senator JOHNSON, is they point out that the VA requires this is the amount--this is a report from the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, views and estimates. This is the summary of our own Veterans' Committee of what we need.  
   VA requires over $3 billion in additional discretionary account funding in FY 00 to support its medical care operations: an additional $1.26 billion to meet unanticipated spending requirements; an additional $853.1 million to overcome the effects of inflation and ``uncontrollables'' in order that it might maintain current services; and at least $1 billion--  
   This is the way they break it down--  
   in additional funding to better address the needs of an aging and increasingly female, veterans population.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from South Dakota that given the surplus and given the record economic performance, I am in complete agreement with him. 
   I again say to all of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans--who I think support this and are on record supporting this additional investment--that we get in my office back in Minnesota more constituent calls from veterans than any other group. 
   All too often these are veterans who fall between the cracks. 
   I was a cosponsor of the Bond amendment. I think it is a step in the right direction. But we are on record saying we know we have to do a better job. We have the Senate Veterans' Committee on record in its own report. We have the veterans independent budget that identifies gaps in all these needs. 
   In addition, I have a survey that I did with a lot of these visiting directors in which they say they will need these resources. If we are going to say on the floor of the Senate we are for the veterans, if we are going to say we are for improving veterans' health care, then I think this is an additional improvement to the amendment we have just passed. This is an amendment that does the job. This is the amendment that many veterans organizations are saying we ought to fight for. 
   Again, I say to my colleagues, 99 colleagues are on record. I hope we will get a very strong vote for it. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. BOND addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, might I respond to what my colleague said, if I could ask my colleague from West Virginia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I know my colleague from New Hampshire wishes to speak. I thank Senator BYRD, and I agree with what he said. I want to go over the evidence that in fact we can do better and we have to. I support Senator BOND's effort. But in terms of all of the data we have on veterans' health care, I think the amendment meets that. 
   I ask unanimous consent I be able to follow Senator SMITH. I will only take 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if my colleague eventually propounds this, I wonder if I might have a few minutes after he speaks to waive it--5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to go, first of all, to the substance of what has been said about veterans' health care. Then I will talk to staff about how we might debate my motion to waive the Budget Act. 
   Let me, first of all, say my good friend from Missouri said we didn't have a flatline budget. If we increase the budget $100 million, $200 million a year, compared to medical inflation, that is a flatline budget. Spend time with veterans anywhere and one knows it did not work. The budget ran way behind health care needs. That is to what the amendment tries to speak. 
   Second, I ask my colleagues, deciding what we need to do by way of making sure we are providing good health care for veterans, my colleague talks about what the Veterans' Administration has said to him. They have to deal with OMB and the bean counters. Or are you going to pay some attention to this independent budget put together by many veterans organizations, which calls for the need for an additional $3 billion above the President's proposal, which is now, my amendment, $1.3 billion. We are getting there because the veterans community has organized and the veterans community has been heard. I am glad they have done so. 
   Here is a list of independent budget endorsers: National Coalition for Homeless Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam War, Vietnam Veterans of America, Retired Officers Association, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans. There are 40 different organizations that endorse this budget. 
   It is interesting to me; we have been saying to the veterans: You have to stop complaining. Tell us what the needs are. 
   They did the research. They put this budget together. They say: Here are the gaps; here are the needs; here is what it will take. My colleagues come to the floor on a budget resolution and 99 of them vote for exactly what this amendment calls for. Then I cite as evidence our own Senate veterans committee, Committee on Veterans' Affairs, which I serve. Its views and estimates are the VA will require over $3 billion in additional discretionary spending to meet the needs of the aging, to meet the needs of an increasingly female veteran population. That is what we say we need to do. 
   We have an independent budget, our own Senate veterans committee, saying this is what we need. In addition, I sent this letter to the VISN directors and asked what was happening--I do not get the straight story--the same people my colleague from Missouri says on whom we are relying. 
   I supported the amendment of the Senator from Missouri. I did not second degree. I think it is a step in the right direction. 
   However, I ask my colleagues this question: Aren't we going to live up to the commitment we made in a vote not that long ago? 
   Then I am told this is going to come out of Social Security. This comes out of the surplus the same way your additional expenditures for defense come out of the surplus, the same way your tax cuts come out of the surplus. Why don't you put as high a priority on veterans as you do on additional defense expenditures or in tax cuts? My colleague, Senator SMITH, obviously does. I think other colleagues will, too, when it comes time to vote. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent Senator JOHNSON be included as an original cosponsor, if he is not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask that Harold R. Holmes, an intern with me, be given floor privileges during consideration of this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, on the caps and this whole question of breaking the caps, maybe I should be one of the first Senators to come to the floor of the Senate and say why not be straightforward about this. We keep doing all the emergency expenditures. I didn't vote for the caps. I didn't vote for the budget agreement. I didn't vote  for the budget caps. I find it a little surprising that a lot of people say: Oh my gosh, the Medicare reimbursement is struggling; our rural hospitals are toppling; what is happening to our producers who are struggling to survive? Home health care providers are struggling to survive, and our teaching hospitals and medical schools are struggling to survive. All of this is true. 
   Everybody knows we will eventually get beyond these caps. We are saying to the veterans, there is a surplus but we use it for defense, we will use it for tax cuts, we will vote for $3 billion more--which is now $1.3 billion--because we increased it. But we are going to say this violates the Budget Act, and we are going to use that as a reason not to vote for this? 
   I will try to say this in a very substantive, quiet way. I appreciate what the Senator from Maryland said, and I thank her. I haven't heard any Senator come to the floor and disagree with any statements I have made about the gaps in veterans' health care, about the needs, and about what we really need to do to live up to our commitment. I haven't heard anybody refute the case that I have made on the floor of the Senate. 
   By the way, I say to my colleague from Maryland, I will have it filed by 3 o'clock. We have had various atomic votes. Every time I pass this on the floor of the Senate, it is taken out in conference committee. I will be back with an amendment 
   on this bill. I am sure I will be told this is in violation of some kind of budget agreement. People who go to Nevada, ground zero, with no protective gear, and the Government doesn't tell them they are in harm's way. It is a nightmare what these people have been through because of their exposure to radiation--and their children and their grandchildren. We still don't want to provide compensation. Everybody says they are for it, they don't want to vote against it, and they take it out in conference committee. 
   I come to the floor of the Senate and I say here is our own Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs saying we will need this $3 billion, which is now the $1.3 billion. Then I talk about my own research and survey to the VISN directors. Same conclusion. Then I say to my colleague from Missouri and others: Who do you want to believe? Do you want to believe the Veterans' Administration and OMB or some 30 or 40 different veterans organizations that have endorsed this independent budget? 
   I say to my colleagues, you voted for this additional investment. We have come a long way, I say to the veterans community. I thank the veterans community for standing up for themselves and speaking for themselves. We have come a long way from the President's original budget proposal. We have gone on a long ways from what was originally proposed in the House and the Senate. My colleague from Missouri does a good job helping us to really make some improvement here. 
   But in all due respect, I do not see how we can say to veterans: Here is the evidence. We know this is what you need. We know these are the gaps. We know what the problems are. We made a commitment to you. We have gone on record supporting this. But now, with your amendment, we are going to basically say it violates the Budget Act, these caps, phony caps of this Budget Act which everyone knows we are not going to live by. Everybody knows they are going to be busted. Everybody knows at the very end we are going to be spending more on key domestic needs. 
   What are we going to do? Cut Head Start and child nutrition and child care and all the rest by 30 percent, or 20 percent, or 25 percent? We are not going to do that. So why not just be honest about it? We have an emergency here, and we have an emergency there, and we figure out other ways to do it. We are spending the money. 
   Then, too many of my colleagues were all too ready to take some money out of the surplus for defense and tax cuts. Now all of a sudden, I come out here with an amendment on veterans' health care that speaks directly to what the evidence tells us we need to do to really improve veterans' health care, and my colleagues are going to vote against it and say it is a violation of the Budget Act? 
   I will conclude this way. I think we ought to do what is right for veterans. I think we are on record calling for exactly the investment this amendment calls for. I think there is not a shred of evidence that suggests we should do anything less for veterans. And I do not think we should be hiding behind the Budget Act. I do not think we should be hiding behind these phony caps that we all know are not going to be operative when we finish up this session. So if I get to be the first person to come to the floor of the Senate and say that and say it directly, so be it. If the test case is on veterans' health care, so be it. But I am determined to fight for what I think is right and to see whether we can improve upon what my colleague from Missouri has done. 
   I hope my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, will vote for this amendment. You have supported it in the past, you are on record supporting it, and I hope you will support the same investment of resources for veterans' health care again. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I say to my colleague, in the appropriations bills, it is not true we don't have any onbudget surplus. The President has only signed two appropriations bills. There is still money in the surplus. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, what we have here, I think, is a philosophical debate. But actually it is more on the lines of what the other Senator from New Hampshire said. It is a matter of where veterans fit in. Apparently, they come in last. We have this arcane rule that I am supposedly in violation of with this amendment which, by the way, makes it easy for my colleagues to go with tax cuts, it makes it easy for my colleagues to put much more into defense, and makes it easy for my colleagues to then come out on the floor and say there is no more money left for veterans. 
   Veterans should not come last. With all due respect, if Senators want to vote, cast a vote that says this amendment, which provides the resources we need for veterans' health care, is in violation of this arcane rule. That is the fact. The reality here is, we have this arcane rule, all part of this agreement that we had which is not working, and everybody here knows it is not working, and we still went forward with all the money for tax cuts and we still put more into defense. 
   I say to my colleagues, again, the President has only signed two appropriations bills. But now what we are told is, the veterans are last. All of a sudden, there is no money for the veterans. All of a sudden, the veterans are to be pitted against Social Security. It does not mean a thing. 
   Let me tell you what the facts are. The facts are that there are a lot of elderly veterans. It is an aging population. And we are nowhere near where we should be in terms home-based health care for them, and we are nowhere near where we should be when it comes to institutional nursing home care for those who need to be in nursing homes. 
   The facts are, as my colleague from New Hampshire mentioned earlier, that we have a scandal of maybe as many as a third of the homeless population being veterans. 
   The facts are that we have long waits in too many places. We have staff working double time. We have veterans who do not have the accessibility to the specialty services they need. We have a VA medical system that is not working the way it should work for veterans. 
   Those are the facts. 
   Next set of facts: My colleagues are on record in this budget resolution calling for exactly the same expenditure I call for in this amendment. 
   Next fact: The veterans independent budget, put together by veterans, not the VA, talks about these gaps and what we need and comes up with this investment that is in this amendment. 
   Next fact: Our own Senate Veterans' Committee admits that this is what we need if we are going to fill these gaps. 
   Next fact: Since I could not get a straight answer from the VA--where are you now, Jesse Brown, when we need you?--I sent out my own questionnaire to all these different VISNs and directors, and 22 of them responded; and they talked about the gaps, and the need, and what kind of investment it would take to get our veterans' health care system up to where it should be for veterans, if you really want to say thank you to veterans. 
   Those are the facts. 
   Last fact: I voted for Senator BOND's amendment. I think it is good. It helps, but it still is inadequate. It is not what we should be doing. We all talk about how much we care for the veterans. We all talk about how we are for the veterans. Then we ought to match the rhetoric with the resources. 
   I do not think my colleagues should be able to vote against this, arguing that it is in violation of this arcane Budget rule that we have. I do not think that means a thing to veterans. I do not think it means a thing to them. I think what means something to veterans is whether or not they are going to have the health care they thought they were promised, whether or not our Government is going to live up to its commitment. That is what this amendment calls for us to do. I hope my colleagues will vote for this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take this time to speak. I want to make a couple of compelling points for my colleagues. 
   First, our own Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee has gone on record saying, if we really want to fill these gaps in veterans' health care, we require what this amendment calls for above what we have spent, which is $1.3 billion more. 
   Second, I cite as evidence this independent budget put together by many different veterans organizations. We asked the veterans to really look at veterans' health care and come up with recommendations. 
   Third, I cite as evidence, again, a study my office conducted when we really could not get good straight information from the VA, called Veterans Health Care and Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Flat-Line. 
   Fourth, I want to again remind my colleagues that all of us, on an amendment in the budget resolution, have been on record, in a 99-0 vote, saying we ought to make this additional investment. I think that is extremely important. 
   My second point is, what is at stake? We have traveled a long way from where this budget once was. The President's budget was inadequate. I think what the House and the Senate were doing was inadequate. Colleagues have stepped forward. I am glad to see we have made some progress. The veterans community, I think, has spoken up and has made it clear to us that they want to see us respond to their needs and the circumstances of their lives. 
   What I am saying in this amendment is that what is at stake is the quality of care. It is just simply true. There is not enough good care for elderly veterans, and many veterans are living to be 80 and 85 years of age. There is not enough good care for those veterans struggling with posttraumatic stress syndrome. The waits for care are too long. Too many of our facilities are understaffed. I do not know why we would not go forward with what we have already gone on record saying we are committed to. I do not think that is acceptable. 
   What is being used against this amendment is that it is in violation of this arcane rule of the Budget Act. But I say to my colleagues--this is the point I want to make; and I will make it in the last 2 minutes if Senator JOHNSON is not here--we have, whatever it is, $15 billion in surplus. We know darn well we are going to be breaking these caps and we are going to be spending that money. We know that. Every single Senator knows we are going to be spending that money. We are going to be spending that money later on. 
   When we do that later on, and we invest that money in whatever areas we invest in, then you are going to have to come back and tell the veterans why you voted against this amendment. If you do not believe that we are going to break the budget caps and spend that additional surplus money on some important domestic needs, then I guess you could vote against this amendment. But if you know in your heart of hearts what everybody I think in the Senate knows, that we are going to spend that money, we are going to break the caps, then why would you want to put veterans at the bottom of the list? Why wouldn't you up front vote for the additional resources that we need for veterans' health care? 
   I thought maybe we would have an up-or-down vote, maybe it would be a vote to table the amendment. I did not realize we were going to have this budget debate. 
   But I think now we have two issues. No. 1, are we going to follow through on the commitment we made to veterans? We are all on record saying we need to make this additional investment. No. 2, are we going to sort of play this game, knowing full well we are going to spend the surplus, we are going to spend this $15 billion surplus? We know that. We are going to break the caps and do that. 
   We have too many glaring needs in this country, too many draconian cuts that are mean-spirited in their effects on many citizens--vulnerable citizens, children. Start with children. What are we going to cut? Low-income energy assistance? Are we going to cut Head Start? Early Head Start? Child care? What exactly do people think we are going to do with these budgets we have with these caps? 
   I say to my colleagues, you know we are going to spend that 
   surplus. And if you know that, and later on you are going to vote to spend it, as you should, on some of these needs, then why wouldn't you vote for it right now for veterans? 
   This is really a test case about whether or not we are going to follow through on a commitment. It is also a test case not just about a commitment to veterans and doing what we need to do to get the resources to veterans' health care--I believe so strongly about that question--but now I have come to believe as strongly about the other question, which is: Let's be honest about this in terms of where we are at in this budget process. 
   We cannot live within these caps. Our appropriators are two great Senators--I do not know why the Senator from Missouri is wrong on so many issues, but he is a darn good Senator, there is no question about it--and they are trying to deal with this in housing for veterans. It is a nightmare. So I do not accept this, even though they are two colleagues who I respect. 
   I do not accept this argument. I do not accept this argument that we are going to use this arcane rule, we are going to use these caps, we are going to use this budget rule as a reason for not voting for the investment in resources that would make a huge difference in the quality of health care for veterans in this country, especially when we know we are going to go into this surplus and use this surplus on some critical needs in our country. I am here to argue this is a critical need--veterans' health care. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. I know we have 5 minutes left for wrapup. 
   Mr. BOND addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I move to waive the Budget Act. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think that I can do it in 1 minute because my colleagues have been gracious enough. 
   Again, I cite as evidence our vote on the budget resolution calling for this additional investment that is in this amendment; second, the independent budget from the veterans; third, our own Senate veterans' health care committee, which said we need to spend the additional $3 billion, this gets us up to that point; fourth, the study where I sent a questionnaire out to all the VISN directors, when I could not get the straight 
   information from the VA about the needs; fifth, I translated this into human terms, in terms of the not adequate care for elderly vets, not adequate care for vets struggling with PTSD, not adequate home-based care, longer lines than there should be, longer waits, not the access to specialists. This is important if we want to fill these gaps. 
   Finally, I say to my colleagues, I am being told this violates the budget caps, but everybody knows we are going to take that $15 billion in surplus and spend it. We know that. There are too many glaring needs in this country. If later on you are going to vote to spend it on something, then why would you put veterans' needs at the very bottom? Why wouldn't you vote for veterans' health care right now? 
   I think we ought to be straightforward and honest about what we are doing. I think that has to do with the budget, but I also think it has to do with what we need to do to try to make sure veterans' health care is as high a quality as possible. We have a long ways to go. This amendment takes us far in that direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague from Minnesota, Senator GRAMS, for his questions and his work on this issue. He has really been tireless in his advocacy for dairy farmers in Minnesota. 
   I actually have two questions for the Senator from Wisconsin to which I would like him to respond. 
   The first question is whether or not the Senator, since he is out here on the floor right now, could translate this debate about the dairy compact in personal terms. In other words, there is a reason why you must be out here. If you could give other Senators a feel for what it has been like to be out at dairy farms, meet with dairy farmers, and what is happening to the families in Wisconsin and Minnesota. 
   My second question would be, since the Senator is out here--and I don't know what is the period of time; I know the Senator from Maryland wants to get some clarity on that, and I imagine the Senator will do what he needs to do and then move on with this bill, with the VA-HUD bill--I want to ask the Senator the other question, which is, again, the particular concern that he has about the nature of this process in the conference committee. 
   You are out here to basically sound an alarm. You are out here to say: Listen, I want to make it clear that in no way, shape, or form should you be able in conference committee--which is almost behind the scenes basically--to negate a vote we had already. 
   So I wonder whether you could deal with those: In personal terms, what this is about for dairy farmers in our States; and second, the particular point you intend to make right here on the floor of the Senate about what is happening right now in 
   conference. 
   You said it before, but I think it needs to be repeated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for one final question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The Senator has talked about his indignation about what might happen in conference committee, and we are on the floor trying to make it clear that it will be unacceptable and we will fight it all the way, if there should be an effort to undo the vote of the Senate. 
   The Senator has talked in personal terms. I want to say to him as a friend--I am not trying to get psychological here--but 
   he spoke differently than I have ever heard him speak on the floor of the Senate when he talked about some of the farmers and conversations and how people start out very eloquent and rational and then just break down crying. I have had the same thing going on right now with many of our producers, dairy and crop and livestock, across the board. That is the convulsion in agriculture right now. It is awful. We have to change it. 
   Could the Senator explain for people the connection between this fight, the plight of dairy farmers, and the national interests. Could he make a linkage as to why he thinks it is in the interest of our country not to have these compacts and to make sure that dairy farmers in Wisconsin and Minnesota have a fair shake and have the opportunity to be able to earn a decent living. 
   In other words, I can see how some would say, he is out here doing it for Wisconsin--we are doing it for our States--but what is the connection to the rest of us? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if the Senator is going to continue to speak, then that is one thing. I don't want to hold up deliberations. I think the Senator from Maryland has a question to ask. I will just simply defer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I will speak briefly in opposition to cutting off debate on S. 625, the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1999. I say to my colleagues, the entire concept of the bill is wrong. It addresses a ``crisis'' that appears to be self-correcting. It rewards the predatory and reckless lending by banks and credit card companies which fed the crisis in the first place, and it does nothing to actually prevent bankruptcy by promoting economic security for working families. 
   To support, if you will, my case on the floor, I will talk about a couple of amendments I intended to offer to this bill which I think will make a huge difference. Let me give a couple of examples. 
   One amendment will prevent claims in bankruptcy on high-cost credit transactions in which the annual interest rate exceeds 100 percent, such as pay-day loans and car title pawns. Pay-day loans are intended to extend small amounts of credit, typically $100 to $500, for an extremely short period of time, usually 1 week or 2 weeks. 
   These loans are marketed as giving the borrower a little extra until pay day, hence the term ``pay-day'' loan. The loans work like this: 
   The borrower writes a check for the loan amount plus a fee. The lender agrees to hold the check until an agreed-upon date and gives the borrower the cash. On the due date, the lender either cashes the check or allows the borrower to extend the loan by writing a new check for the loan. In any case, the annual interest rate can get as high as 391 percent. 
   We ought to do something about that, Mr. President. I have an amendment that will make a difference. I believe I would win if I offered this amendment to address this problem. 
   Another amendment I want to offer is about making sure banks offer low-cost banking services to their customers. For about 12 million Americans, having a checking account is a simple convenience which they cannot afford. Why? Because quite often there is a large minimum or you have fees that are really too high, and therefore people cannot even have these accounts. I want to make sure these banks are responsive to low-income citizens as well. 
   Mr. President, I was on the floor last week for several hours talking about the crisis in agriculture. I said that those of us from the farm States want an opportunity to pass legislation that would change the course of policy and prevent our family farmers from being driven off the land and prevent, really, what is right now the devastation of our rural communities. 
   The minority leader, Senator DASCHLE, has an amendment to get the loan rate up, to get prices up, which I support. I have an amendment--and Senator DORGAN will join me--which basically says we are going to--for 18 months, until we pass some antitrust action--put a moratorium on a lot of these mergers and acquisitions. We want to have some competition in the food industry. 
   I think I can get a lot of support from Republicans as well as Democrats. I think there will be a lot of support on the floor of the Senate for these amendments that try to do something about changing farm policy so our producers--whether they be in Minnesota, whether they be in Idaho, whether they be in the Midwest, or whether they be in the South--are able to make a living and support their families. 
   In all due respect--I hate to say this--bankruptcy is all too relevant to what these family farmers are going through. I have an amendment that says we ought to do some policy evaluation if we are going to be talking about bankruptcy and we are not going to do a darn thing to deal with the predatory policies of these credit companies, that we are not going to do a darn thing about the ways in which they hook people in who have precious little consumer protection, that if we are going to talk about low-income citizens, I would like to see some policy evaluation. 
   I would like to see us have some understanding about what is going on in welfare. Where are these mothers and children who are no longer on the rolls? What are their wage levels? Is there affordable child care? Do these families have health care coverage or do they not have health care coverage? 
   It is also the case that my colleague who sits right next to me, Senator KENNEDY, has an amendment he wants to offer to raise the minimum wage. I find it interesting that what we have here is a piece of legislation that does nothing by way of providing consumer protection, does nothing by way of challenging these credit card companies, and does absolutely nothing to prevent the bankruptcy in the first place. 
   We have the evidence that shows that very few people--maybe 3 percent--have abused the law. And because of that, we are passing a draconian, harsh piece of legislation which imposes enormous difficulties on the poorest families, on working-income families. Yet when some of us say we want to bring some amendments to the floor that deal with exorbitant interest rates, to make sure that low-income people have access to banking services, and to make sure we do something about the economic security for working families--and I include family farmers who are going bankrupt--we are told by the majority leader we are going to be shut out from being able to offer amendments, and therefore the majority leader files cloture. 
   We will have a cloture vote. I am going to vote against cloture; I am sure many of my colleagues are going to vote against cloture, and then I am sure the majority leader is going to pull the bill. If he pulls the bill, that will be actually a plus for Americans. This is a deeply flawed piece of legislation--great for the credit companies, terrible for consumers. 
   But if he pulls the bill, also that is basically a message to those of us who for weeks now have been saying we want to come to the floor with substantive amendments, to fight for the people we represent, to do something about making sure they have a decent chance--and I am talking in particular about family farmers. Basically what I am hearing from the majority leader  is: Anytime you say you are going to come to the floor with these amendments, I am going to pull the legislation. I am not going to give you a vehicle. We are not going to have an up-or-down vote on minimum wage. 
   Apparently, a lot of my colleagues on the other side do not want to be on record; we are not going to have an up-or-down vote on getting farm prices up; we are not going to have an up-or-down vote on a moratorium dealing with these mergers and acquisitions; We are not going to have an up-or-down vote on amendments that really do deal with these payday loans, with these exorbitant interest rates, making sure again that low-income people have access to banking services. 
   I think there will not be enough votes for cloture. I do not think there should be enough votes for cloture. I want to say today on the floor of the Senate, especially to the majority leader--not so much to my colleague from Utah--if each and every time, as a Senator from an agricultural State, I am going to be shut out from having any vehicles whereby I can bring some amendments to the floor to change farm policy so these producers do not go under in my State, then I am going to have to look for whatever leverage I have as a Senator to force some cooperation on the other side so we can have a genuine, substantive debate 
   about a lot of issues that are important to people's lives. 
   Let's talk about raising the minimum wage. Let's talk about what is happening to family farmers. Let's talk about health care policy. Let's talk about consumer protection. 
   This effort on the part of the majority leader--and I guess, therefore, the majority party--to shut us out from introducing substantive legislation that would make all the difference in the world to the people we represent is just simply unacceptable. I do not think this is any way for us to operate as a Senate. I urge my colleagues to vote against cloture. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. GRASSLEY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. (for himself and Mr. DORGAN) submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by them to the bill, S. 625, supra; as follows:
   At the end of the bill, add the following:
   SEC. __01. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Agribusiness Merger Moratorium and Antitrust Review Act of 1999''.
   SEC. __02. DEFINITIONS.
    In this division:
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. I speak today in recognition of the 25th anniversary of Women's Advocates, Inc., our Nation's first battered women's shelter, located in St. Paul, MN. 
   It is with gratitude and with pride that I recognize the unyielding dedication of the staff, the volunteers and the supporters of Women's Advocates. It was in 1974 that the doors of this shelter first opened to women and their children seeking respite from domestic violence. At a time when it took great courage and strength, women stood together to say that violence in our homes must end. Today, having provided advocacy, shelter and support services to over 25,000 women and children, and having spent countless hours teaching our school children and community members about the impact of domestic violence, Women's Advocates stands as a pillar of grace and triumph in the great state of Minnesota. 
   So today we hail Executive Director, Lisbet Wolf, and the courageous women at Women's Advocates, who 25 years ago, gave women and children's safety a permanent place in our nation's history.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I speak today in support of the Community Development and Venture Capital Act of 1999 introduced today by Senator KERRY. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this measure which, if enacted, will make a real difference in the growth of small business, and the creation of quality jobs, in underdeveloped areas around the country. 
   I think the critical issue in communities which experience enduring poverty is job creation through promotion of business opportunities and entrepreneurship. This has been my experience when I have traveled to places like rural Appalachia, inner city Minneapolis or Chicago or the Iron Range in Minnesota. I also believe that an area can be made as pro-business as possible though tax policies and zoning ordinances, but at some point businesses simply need capital so that they can grow and create good jobs. 
   No business can grow without infusions of capital for equipment purchases, to conduct research, to expand capacity, or to build infrastructure. At some point all successful ventures outgrow incubation in the entrepreneur's garage or living room; additional staff must be hired and the complexity of managing supply and demand increases. Yet it is clear that throughout the country there are small business owners who are being starved of the capital necessary to take this step. They have viable businesses or ideas for businesses but cannot fully transform their aspirations into reality because of this financial roadblock. 
   Businesses can secure capital through loans, but there is a limit to the amount of debt that a business can safely carry and lenders are wary of businesses with low equity. Equity investment also differs from lending in that the equity investor acquires an ownership stake in the business. The fortunes of the investor rise and fall with the success of the venture. This means making an equity investment is riskier than making a loan, and it also means that the investor has a greater vested interest in promoting healthy growth. Investment of equity capital into an enterprise has a multiplier effect in that it allows the business owner to access necessary credit. 
   Traditional venture capital firms are not meeting the need for equity capital in disadvantaged communities. In addition, the Small Business Administration's Small Business Investment Companies program--with a few exceptions--has not reached into the most economically backward communities in the country. Such investments are risky in the best of circumstances, but they can and do succeed with adequate time and attention. These communities need patient investors who are willing to work closely with small business owners to realize a financial return over the long term. Often, the investments needed are smaller than those made by traditional sources. 
   There is no question that the lack of access to equity capital in disadvantaged areas around the country is a prime reason why those communities have been left behind by the historic economic expansion that the rest of the nation has enjoyed. But there are success stories in many states which I  believe that we can emulate and build on to allow distressed communities to reach their full potential. 
   Throughout America, organizations known as Community Development Venture Capital funds are making these kinds of equity investments in communities and are producing excellent results. CDVC funds make equity investments in small businesses for two purposes: to reap a financial return to the fund, and to generate a social benefit for the community through creation of well paying jobs. This ``double bottom line'' is what makes CDVC funds unique. There are around 40 CDVC funds currently operating throughout the country, in both rural and urban areas. 
    These funds are demonstrating the success of socially conscious investment and entrepreneurial solutions to social and economic problems. 
   My own state of Minnesota is home to a good example of a seasoned, and successful CDVC fund: Northeast Ventures Corporation of Duluth. NEV serves a seven country rural area and focuses on creating good jobs in high value-added industries. NEV targets 50% of the jobs created through investments to women, and to low-income and structurally unemployed persons. 
   In 1990 a group a entrepreneurs approached Northeast Ventures about setting up a car wash equipment manufacturing facility in Tower, a town of 508 people, in one of the poorest parts of northeastern Minnesota. While NEV thought that the market opportunity was attractive, the company, called Powerain, had an incomplete business plan and lacked a Chief Operating Officer. NEV also felt that the business provided a good opportunity to create jobs and bring some economic vitality to an area that needed it badly. 
   Other assistance was needed before NEV could provide financing for the effort. Northeast worked closely with Powerain's founders to revise the business plan and identify a strong CEO candidate for the company. Northeast also invested $200,000 in equity into the business. 
   NEV staff conducted the strategic planning sessions of Powerain and continue to be essential in developing the company's strategic plan. They assist in identifying the need for key personnel; recruit the necessary staff; and are integral in qualifying the short list of candidates. Over a multi-year period, NEV has talked daily with the Powerain CEO regarding subjects as diverse as sales, distributor relationships and the financial structure of loans. Over an eight year period, NEV has assisted Powerain in all subsequent rounds of financing totaling $826,932. 
   Powerain had a record sales year in 1998 and is expecting another record year in 1999. The company currently employs 20 full-time people, and expects to increase that number significantly in the future. The company provides ongoing training to its staff and entry level positions begin at $8 an hour--with full benefits. Most employees earn well in excess of $10 per hour. 
   The Community Development and Venture Capital Act of 1999 is designed to build on the successful CDVC model by promoting equity investment in economically distressed communities. The first title of this legislation would create the New Market Venture Capital Companies Program, a new program within SBA that will fund at least ten venture capital companies dedicated to new markets--low- and moderate-income communities. $15 million in annual appropriations would support a $100 million program level for SBA-guaranteed debentures, and $30 million in matching technical assistance grants. 
   Title II of the bill basically consists of legislation I introduced last year, and again this year, entitled the Community Development Venture Capital Assistance Act. Last year, the Senate passed this legislation as part of a SBA technical amendments bill. This title is intended to build the capacity of the existing CDVC industry through technical assistance and SBA grants to colleges, universities, and other firms or organizations--public or private--to create and operate training programs, intern programs, a national conference, and academic research and study dealing with community development venture capital. 
   Title III would build on the BusinessLINC grant program which is a public-private partnership that the SBA and Department of Treasury launched last June. It encourages larger businesses to mentor smaller businesses, promoting the viability of small businesses located in disadvantaged areas. 
   I think this legislation speaks to the heart of reversing persistent poverty in America by promoting entrepreneurship, and encouraging responsible equity investment. The small business growth sparked by this legislation would in turn create jobs and wealth in those communities which have heretofore been overlooked. It is an absolutely essential addition to the SBA's current program offerings and I urge my colleagues to support it.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I was just at a gathering of family farmers from the State of Minnesota. I want to give a report on what many of these farmers from Minnesota had to say. I know the Chair has met with farmers from his State and is well aware of the economic pain. 
   This was a gathering of the Farmers Union farmers, although I think as they have traveled from Senate office to Senate office and House office to House office, they speak for many farmers in the country. Their focus is on what can only be described as an economic convulsion in agriculture. 
   I know this is not only a crisis in the Midwest but it is also a crisis in the South and throughout the entire nation. On present course, we are going to lose a generation of producers. Whether we are talking about farmers in Minnesota or farmers in Arkansas, many very hard-working people are asking nothing more than a decent price for the commodities they  produce. These farmers, who want a decent price so they can have a decent standard of living and so they can support their children, are going to go under. 
   I will talk a little bit about policy, but, most importantly, I want to talk about families. I think it is important to bring this to the attention of the Senate. On the policy part, I would prefer, if at all possible, to avoid a confrontation about the Freedom to Farm bill. I thought it was ``freedom to fail'' when the bill passed in 1996. I thought it was a terrible piece of legislation; other Senators at that time thought differently. Part of the legislation gave producers more flexibility, which was good. However, the problem we are facing now is the flexibility doesn't do any good because, across the board prices are low and farmers can't cash-flow. 
   I don't know whether the Chair has had this experience in Arkansas. He probably has. Many farmers will come up to me, and often these farmers will be in their 40's or 50's. They will say: Right now, I am just burning up my equity. I am digging into everything I have in order to keep going. I want to ask you a question: Should I continue to do that? Do I have a future, or should I just get out of farming? 
   People don't want to get out of farming. They don't want to leave. This is where they farm. This is where they live. This is where they work. The farm has been in their family for four generations. 
   We have to make a major modification in our farm policy. The modification has to deal with the problem of price. It is a price crisis in rural America. We have to get this emergency assistance package passed. Conferees must meet and report a bill to Congress so that we can get assistance out to farmers now. I think the emergency package must include a disaster relief piece. The Senate version includes no funding for weather related disasters. Although I am supportive of an emergency relief package, I still don't think the Senate-passed version targeted the assistance towards those people who need the most help. 
   The point is, these producers want to know whether they have a future beyond 1 year. They can't cash-flow on these prices, whether it be for wheat, for corn, for cotton, for rice, for peanuts, or whether it be for livestock producers. They simply cannot cash-flow. They cannot make it. They can work 20 hours a day and be the best managers in the world, and they still won't make it. 
   I do think we have to raise the loan rate to get the price up. We have to do that. We have to have some kind of a way that our producers have some leverage in the marketplace to get a better price. I think we also need to have a farmer-owned reserve. A 
   farmer-owned reserve would enable our producers to hold on to their grain until they can get a better price from the grain companies. 
   Whatever the proposal is, I say to all of my colleagues, for our producers--and I imagine it is the same in Arkansas--time is not neutral. It is not on their side. I don't think we can leave this fall without making a change. We have to pass the emergency assistance package, and we have to deal with the price crisis. I have heard discussion about how we are going to leave early. We cannot leave early. 
   I also want to talk about the whole problem of concentration of power. This is an unbelievable situation. What we have is a situation where our producers, such as our livestock producers, when negotiating to sell, only have three or four processors. They have the Smithfields, the ConAgras, the IPBs, the Hormels and the Cargills. The point is, you have two, three or four firms that control over 40 percent, over 50 percent, sometimes 70-80 percent of the market. 
   Pork producers are facing extinction, and the packers are in hog heaven. The mergers continue, and we have all of these acquisitions. We need to put free enterprise back into the food industry. 
   I have had a chance to review the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act and the work of Estes Kefauver and others. We have had two major public hearings, one in Minnesota and one in Iowa, with Joel Klein, who leads the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department, and Mike Dunn, head of the Packers and Stockyards Administration within the Department of Agriculture. Our producers are asking the question: Why, with these laws on the books, isn't there some protection for us? We have all sorts of examples of monopoly. We want to know where is the protection for producers. 
   It is critical to pass some stronger antitrust legislation. I know Senator LEAHY is doing a great job with his legislation. I am pleased to join with him. I know part of what the Leahy legislation is going to emphasize is that the U.S. Department of Agriculture can ask for a family farm rural community impact statement. It must address the impact these acquisitions and mergers will have on communities. We want to see that USDA has the authority to review these mergers and acquisitions. We want to see that when people break the law and are practicing collusive activities, there are going to be very stiff penalties. We want to set up a separate division within the Justice Department that deals with agriculture and conducts an investigation and an impact study. Again, we need to have some strong antitrust legislation on the books. 
   This ought to be a bipartisan issue. I think this is one issue on which all the farm organizations agree. We must have some antitrust action. We must have some bargaining power for the producers. We must put free enterprise back into the food industry. 
   Until we pass this legislation, I will have an amendment on the floor calling for a moratorium on any further acquisitions or mergers for agribusinesses with over $50 million in revenue. We need to take a look at what is going on. We need to pass some legislation now or we need to have a moratorium for one year until we pass legislation. I think there is going to be a considerable amount of support for this. The reason I think there is going to be a lot of support is that I think many of my colleagues have been back in their States, and for those of us who come from rural States, from agricultural States, you can't meet with people and not know we have to take some kind of action. 
   I want to bring to the attention of my colleagues just what this crisis means in personal terms. I get nervous about the discussions we have about statistics. We talk about loan rates, we talk about target prices, deficiency payments and LPDs. I want to put this crisis in personal terms. 
   Let me talk, first of all, about the wonderful wisdom of a Kansas farmer. 
   I want to share a conversation I had with a Kansas farmer, who offered a great analogy that goes right to the heart of what is happening to our livestock producers, in particular, pork producers who are facing extinction while the packers are in hog heaven:  
   Hogs can be mean, nasty and greedy animals. When a hog farmer raises hogs, he knows well enough to separate the big boars from the little hogs. No hog producer would put a boar in the same pen with small pigs. The boar would literally attack and kill the smaller pigs.  
   Yet while no producer would make such an illogical decision, we as a nation have shamelessly allowed the big boars within our own market pen. That is exactly what is happening. The large corporate ``pigs'' have been attacking and killing the smaller producers. 
   Now, let me just recite a little bit of historical context. These are words that were spoken on the floor. I read this piece and thought of the latest Smithfield effort to gobble up another company. These words were spoken on the floor of the Senate by Wyoming Senator John B. Kendrick in 1921, in support of the Packers and Stockyards Act:  
   Nothing under the sun would do more to conduce to increase production in this country and ultimately to cheapen food products for the people of the Nation than a dependable market, one wherein the producer would understand beyond a shadow of doubt that he would not merely get what is called a fair market, but would get the market for his products based on the law of supply and demand. The average producer in this country is a pretty good sport. He is not afraid to take his chances, but he wants to know that he meets the other man on the dead level and does not have to go against stacked cards.  
   That is exactly what is at issue. Everywhere the family farmers look, whether it be on the input side, or to whom they sell, you have monopolies. We have to, as Senators, be willing to be on the side of family farmers and take on these monopolies. Who do we  represent? Are we Senators from Smithfield, ConAgra or Cargill, which is a huge company in my State. Or, are we Senators who represent family farmers in rural communities? 
   I had a meeting with about 35 small bankers, independent bankers, community bankers, from rural Minnesota. It was unbelievable; all of them were saying they have not seen anything such as this crisis in their lifetimes. They said if we continue the way we are going right now, we are going to lose these farms. Our hospitals are going to shut down, our businesses are in trouble, our dealers and banks are in trouble. We are not going to be able to support our schools. 
   This is about the survival of many of our communities, and these bankers they are right. I would, in 1999, like to associate myself with the remarks of Senator John B. Kendrick in 1921. He goes on to say:  
   It has been brought to such a high degree of concentration that it is dominated by a few men. The big packers, so-called, stand between hundreds of thousands of producers on the one hand, and millions of consumers on the other. They have their fingers on the pulse of both the producing and consuming markets, and are in such a position of strategic advantage; they have unrestrained powers to manipulate both markets to their own advantage and to the disadvantage of over 99 percent of the people of our country. Such power is too great, Mr. President, to repose it to the hands of any man.  
   I have been doing a lot of traveling during August meeting with farmers. I have been, certainly, to every single rural community in Minnesota and to gatherings in South Dakota, Iowa, North Dakota, Missouri, and Texas. Each and every time, I will tell you, it is incredible when you speak to farmers. You have 700 or 800 pork producers at a rally, for example, and they know from personal experience who the enemy is. They can't believe that IBP is making record profits while they are going under. How can it be these packers make all this money and the prices for our products don't go down in the grocery stores? Meanwhile, our family farmers, our producers, are facing extinction? What is going on? 
   When we passed the Sherman Act in late the 1800s, we did it, to protect consumers; but, we also said we as a nation value competition. We thought the food industry was important. We thought we ought to have a lot of producers. We thought we ought to have a wide distribution of land ownership. We thought it was important to have rural communities. Somebody is going to farm land in America. When our family farmers in the Midwest or the South are driven off the land, the mentality seems to be not to worry about it. The argument is made that somebody will farm the land. Somebody will own the animals. But the problem is that it will be these big conglomerates owning the land and the animals. The health and vitality of rural America is not based upon the number of acres of land somebody owns or the number of animals; it is based upon the number of family farmers who live in the community, buy in the community, care about the community. 
   As far as our national interest is concerned, this is a food scarcity issue. When these big conglomerates finish muscling their way to the dinner table and driving these family farmers out, what will be the price we pay for the food? Will it be safe? Will it be nutritious? Will there be land stewardship? Will you have producers that care about the environment? I think the answer is no. 
   This is a transition that America will deeply regret. We in the Senate must take action. We must take action to deal with this crisis, and it is a crisis. It is a price crisis. We have to get the loan rate up to get the price up. We have to have a moratorium on all of these acquisitions and mergers. 
   Eunice Biel from Harmony, MN, a dairy farmer, said:  
   We currently milk 100 cows and just built a new milking parlor. We will be milking 120 cows next year. Our 22-year-old son would like to farm with us. But for us to do so he must buy out my husband's mother (his grandmother) because my husband and I who are 46-years-old, still are unable to take over the family farm. Our son must acquire a beginning farmer loan. But should he shoulder that debt if there is no stable milk price? We continuously are told by bankers, veterinarians and ag suppliers that we need to get bigger or we will not survive. At 120 cows, we can manage our herd and farm effectively and efficiently. We should not be forced to expand in order to survive.  
   Lynn Jostock, a Waseca, MN, dairy farmer, said:  
   I have four children. My 11-year-old son Al helps my husband and I by doing chores. But it often is too much to expect of someone so young. For instance, one day our son came home from school. His father asked Al for some help driving the tractor to another farm about 3 miles away. Al was going to come home right afterward. But he wound up helping his father cut hay. Then he helped rake hay. Then he helped bale hay. My son did not return home until 9:30 p.m. He had not yet eaten supper. He had not yet done his schoolwork. We don't have other help. The price we get at the farm gate isn't enough to allow us to hire any farmhands or to help our community by providing more jobs. And it isn't fair to ask your 11-year-old son to work so hard to keep the family going. When will he burn out? How will he ever want to farm?  
   Above and beyond that, I will just tell you that there is a lot of strain in the families. Families are under tremendous economic pressure, and they are under tremendous personal pressure. 
   As long as I am talking about families, I want to tell you that in my State of Minnesota there are farmers who talk about taking their lives. There are a number of people who are involved in the social services who are doing an awful lot of visits now to farms. And an awful lot of farmers are right on the edge. Do you want to know something? Their suffering is needless and unnecessary. This is not the result of Adam Smith's ``invisible hand.'' This is not some inexorable economic law. It is not the law of physics. It is not gravity that dictates that family farmers must fall. 
   We have it within our power to change farm policy and to give these producers a chance. We should not leave. We should not go home until we write some new agricultural policy, a new farm policy that will really make a difference for people. 
   I am open to all suggestions. I am not arrogant about this. But I will tell you one thing I am insistent upon. I am going to be out on the floor talking about this issue. I am insistent that we take some action. We can't just turn our gaze away from this and act as if it is not happening. 
   Jan Lundebrek from Benson, a Minnesota bank loan officer:  
   As a loan officer at a small town bank, I received a check for $19 for the sale of a 240-pound hog. I immediately went across the street to the grocery store and looked at the price of ham. The store was selling hams for $49. I wrote down that price and showed it to the producer. Then we decided to ask the grocer about the difference. Where does it go? Somebody is getting it, but it isn't the farmer.  
   We have policies to keep our country safe. We have a defense policy, we have an education policy, but we don't have a policy to protect our strength. We don't have a food policy that protects our farm communities and consumers who spend $49 for a 10-pound ham that the farmer can't even buy through the sale of a 240-pound hog. 
   Now we have Smithfield that says it wants to buy Murphy. A merger of yet two more of these large packers is just outrageous. I want a moratorium on these mergers and acquisitions. I don't want these big livestock packers to be pushing around family farmers and driving them off the land. 
   Jan Lundebrek, this is a brilliant example. I want to speak for you, Jan, on the floor of the Senate--A Benson, MN, bank loan officer:  
   As a loan officer at a small town bank, I received a check for $19 for the sale of a 240-pound hog. I immediately went across the street to the grocery store and looked at the price of hams. The store was selling hams for $49. I wrote down that price and showed it to the producer. Then we decided to ask the grocer about the difference. Where does it go? Somebody is getting it, but it isn't the farmer.  
   Let me again point this out. You spend $49 for a 10-pound ham, and this farmer is getting $19 for a 240-pound hog. 
   I mentioned the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act. I feel as if I am speaking on the floor of the Senate in the late 1800s. Where is the call for antitrust action? Teddy Roosevelt, where are you when we need you? 
   We have to get serious about this. 
   Richard Berg, 
   Clements farmer:  
   My dad died when I was 9-years-old. Two years later, when I turned 11, I began to farm full time with my older brother. He and I still farm together. This year I will bring in my 48th crop. The farm we own has been in the Berg family for more than 112 years. 
   When we began farming we would get up at 4 a.m. to do chores. Then we would go to  school. During the evening, after we returned from school, we went back to work farming. 
   My brother and I each own 360 acres. I never had a line of credit until the past five years. We always made enough to save some and buy machinery when we needed it. Now I have a line of credit against the land that I own that I am always using. 
   I invested in a hog co-op a few years ago and a corn processing facility. I have a lot of equity tied up there. Neither venture is making money. They're losing money. 
   There's no one after me who is going to farm.  
   Les Kyllo, Goodhue dairy farmer:  
   My grandfather milked 15 cows. My dad milked 26. I have milked as many as 100 cows, and I'm going broke. They made a living out here and I didn't. Since my son went away to college, my farmhands are my 73-year-old father and my 77-year-old father-in-law who has an artificial hip. 
   I have a barn that needs repairs and updates that I can't afford. I have two children that don't want to farm. At one point, in a 30-mile radius, there were 15 Kyllos farming. Now there are three. And now I'm selling my cows. My family has farmed since my ancestors emigrated to the United States. 
   When I leave farming, my community will lose the $15,000 I spend locally each year for cattle feed; the $3,000 I spend at the veterinarian; the $3,600 I spend for electricity; or the money I spend for fuel, cattle insemination and other farm needs.  
   By the way, I would like to thank these farmers. I don't know whether other Senators realize this. I am sure they do. I am sure that people listening to our discussion on the floor realize this. But you know, when people tell you the story of their lives and allow you to talk about them and their strains, they do not do that except if they hope that if enough of us realize what is really going on, we will make the change. That is what they are hoping for. That is what they are hoping for, and that is what we should do. 
   Alphonse Mathiowetz, 
   Comfrey farmer:  
   ``We were there 43 years and it took 43 seconds to take it all away.'' Alphonse and LaDonna, his spouse, farmed the same land in Comfrey for 43 years. In the spring of 1998 a tornado tore through their community taking with it the work of their lifetime, their farm machinery, their buildings, their trees, their corn bins and their retirement. The Mathiowetz family lost more than $200,000 of equity to the tornado, none of which will be recovered. 
   Alphonse and LaDonna chose to rebuild their home on the farmstead. Not because they wanted to, but because if they did otherwise the reimbursement they received from their insurance company would have been highly taxed. It was the only financial decision available to the couple. 
   ``I guess it's a blessing to retire, but not this way, watching the farm go away in bulk on an iron truck.''  
   Steve Cattnach, Luverne small businessperson (insurance agent):  
   Two local farmers who raise hogs came in both in the same week to withdraw money from their Individual Retirement Accounts. During the course of 10 days the time it takes for the money to arrive both were in twice asking about when their checks would arrive. 
   A local farmer who has 2 1,200-hog finishing facilities wanted to help his cash-flow by reducing the insurance coverage on his hog buildings from $180,000 each to $165,000 each. The terms of the policy allowed the coverage to be reduced, but the farmer's lender wouldn't allow the coverage to be reduced because the farmer, after 3 years of finishing hogs in those buildings, still owed $180,000 on each building. During those 3 years, he had only paid interest on the money he had borrowed. 
   Laura Resler, Owatonna farmer:  
   I have farmed with my husband for 20 years. When we started, we raised two breeds of purebred hogs and sold their offspring as breeding stock. Each animal sold for $300 to $500 per animal. But the increase in size of hog operations made our small breeding stock operation a money-losing venture. Also milked cows to produce manufacturing grade (Grade B) milk. But $10 per hundredweight is not enough to pay the bills, so we had to give up the cows. From the time my husband, Todd, was 18 until now, when he's 41, he's worked for absolutely nothing. Now he works at a job in town so we have funds on which to retire. Our hope is to give our son the farm that's been in the family for generations and let our daughter have the house. But you can't cash-flow a 4-H livestock project. How can he cash-flow the farm?  
   Many of these youngsters growing up on these farms are not going to be able to farm because these farmers are going to be gone. I have heard people say: Senator WELLSTONE, you come out here and talk about this. What is to be done? Raise the loan rate; get the price up. 
   If Members don't want to do that, come out here and talk about other ways we can change policy in order to make it work. 
   Is there any Senator who wants to come to the floor of the Senate, given the economic pain, the economic convulsion, the broken dreams, the broken lives and broken families in rural America, who wants to say stay the course? Is there any Senator who wants to do that? I don't know of any Senator who thinks we should stay the course. 
   If that is the case, let's have an opportunity for those who have some ideas about how to change this policy so people can get a decent price and there can be some real competition. We want an opportunity to be out here, to introduce those amendments, to introduce those bills, to have votes, and to try to change this. That is what I am talking about. 
   Darrel Mosel has been farming for 18 years. When he started farming in Sibley County, which is one of Minnesota's largest agricultural counties, there were four implement dealers in Gaylord, the county seat. Today there is none. There is not even an implement dealer in Sibley County. 
   The same thing has happened to feedstores and grain elevators. Since the farm policies of the 1980s and the resulting reduction in prices, farmers don't buy any new equipment; they either use baling wire to hold things together or they quit. The farmhouses have people in them, but they don't farm. There is something wrong with that. 
   Again, when he started farming in Sibley County there were four implement dealers in Gaylord, the county seat. Today there is not one--not one. This isn't just the family farmers going under, it is the implement dealers, the businesses, our communities. This is all about whether or not rural America will survive. 
   Ernie Anderson, a Benson farmer:  
   Crop insurance has and is ruining the farmer. Because yields of disaster years are figured when calculating the premiums costs, a farmer's yield on which he can buy insurance decreases. As it decreases, it becomes apparent that paying a crop insurance premium doesn't make financial sense because when there is a loss, the claim amount of damaged crops isn't enough to pay the price to put crops in the ground. Crop insurance is supposed to help me. It's not supposed to put me out of business.  
   Randy Olson, strong, articulate Randy Olson, a college student, beginning farmer, comes home from college each weekend to 
   help on the farm. In March he came home from school and his parents looked like they aged 5 years. The price of milk had dropped from $16.10 in February to $12.10 in March. No business can afford a drop in price like that over a short period of time.  
   You love your parents, you see them hurt, and it makes you mad.  
   And prices are going up right now, but it is a heck of a dairy policy if, due to the drought in some areas of the country, Minnesota dairy farmers can do better. That is not a dairy policy. 
   Gary Wilson, an Odin farmer, received the church newsletter in the mail. What is normally addressed to the entire congregation had been addressed only to farmers. The newsletter said farmers should quit farming if it is not profitable. If larger, corporate-style farms were the way to turn a profit, the independent farmer should let go and find something else to do.  
   What he doesn't understand is that farmers are his congregation. If we go he won't have a church.  
   Not only that, Gary, but, again, I will just repeat it. The health and the vitality of our rural communities are not based upon how many acres of land someone owns or how many animals someone owns; it is how many family farmers live and buy in the community. The health and the vitality and the national interests of our Nation are not having a few conglomerate exercising their power over producers, consumers and taxpayers. 
   Testimony from Northwest Minnesota--this is more painful. John Doe 1 from East Ottertail, MN. Despite the ongoing difficulties, it is amazing, the steadfast willingness of this family to try to hold things together. The farm is farmed by two families, a father and his son. Since dairy prices fell in the second quarter of 1999, there was not enough income for this family to make the loan payments and to provide for family living and cover farm operating expenses. The farm credit services would not release the loan for farm operating assistance, so the family had to borrow money from the lender from  which they are already leasing their cows. They have not been able to feed the cows properly because of the lack of funds. Because they cannot adequately feed their dairy herd, their milk production has fallen and is considerably lower than the herd's average production. 
   In addition, because there was no money for family living expenses, the parents had to cash out what little retirement savings they had so the two families had something to live on day to day. The son and wife had to let their trailer house go since they could not make the payments, and they moved into a home owned by a relative for the winter. 
   Most of their machinery is being liquidated. However, there are a few pieces of machinery that go toward paying off their existing debt. The family will sell off 120 acres of land in their struggle to reduce their debt. 
   Recently, the father has been having serious back troubles and has been unable to help his son with the work. This is tremendous stress, both physically and mentally, on the son. The son has decided he is going to have to sell part of the herd in order to reduce the herd to a number that is more manageable for one person. In addition, the money acquired from selling off part of the herd will be applied toward their debt. 
   The son hopes these three items combined--selling machinery, land, and parts of the herd--can pay off enough of their debt that he might be able to do some restructuring on the reminder of the farm and to reduce loan repayments to a manageable amount where there is something left to live on after the payments are made. That is what they hope for. 
   By the way, as long as we are talking about bad luck, in a very bitter, ironic way, at least for me, my travel in farm country in Minnesota and many other States in the country has made me acutely aware of the fact that we are going to have to talk again. Senator BOB KERREY of Nebraska was eloquent when he mentioned we will have to talk about health care that goes with health care coverage that comes with being a citizen in this country. 
   Do you know what is happening with our farmers? A lot of the farmers, because of this failed policy, because of these record low prices, because of record low income, because, financially, they have their backs to the wall, what do they give up on? They give up on health insurance coverage. So they do not even have any health insurance. Of course, for many of these producers, being able to afford this health insurance coverage in the first place is very difficult. They don't get the same deal that you get if you are working for a big employer. Now many of them say: We cannot afford it. So they have given up on their health insurance coverage, hoping they and their loved ones will not be ill. But you know what? The more stress there is, whether it is more mental stress or more physical stress, the more likely people will be struggling with illness. 
   John Doe 2, from Goodridge, MN--I say John Doe 2 because these are farmers who do not want their names used, and I respect that. This family has gone through a divorce. The father and three children are operating the farm. The farmer has taken an off-farm job to make payments to the bank and has his a 12-year-old son and 14-year-old daughter operating the farming operation unassisted while he is away at work. The neighbors have threatened to turn him in to Human Services for child abandonment, so he had to have his 18-year-old daughter quit work and stay home to watch the younger children. The 12-year-old boy is working heavy farm equipment, mostly alone. He is driving these big machines and can hardly reach the clutch on the tractor. It is this or lose the farm. 
   This story really gets to me because this is really complicated. One more time. The family has gone through a divorce and the father and three children are operating the farm. 
   As long as I am going to take some time to talk about what is happening to family farmers, this is unfortunately not uncommon. The strain on families is unbelievable. 
   So the father, since he is alone, a single parent, was forced to take an off-farm job to make payments to the bank. His 12-year-old son and 14-year-old daughter are operating the farming operation unassisted while he is at work. 
   I think a lot of us would say: Wait a minute. You cannot do this. The neighbors, thinking the same thing, have threatened to turn him in to Human Services because they say this is not right. 
   He has an 18-year-old daughter. He says to her: You have to quit work and stay home to watch the two younger children. The 12-year-old boy is working heavy farm equipment, mostly alone. He is driving these big machines and he can hardly reach the clutch on the tractor. But it is this or lose the farm. That is what is happening out there. This is a convulsion. 
   I say to my colleague from North Dakota, who is on the floor, I have been saying the reason the farmers in Minnesota have given me their stories and the reason I want to take the time to focus on this is we want an opportunity to change this policy. We want an opportunity to be out here with amendments and with legislation that will lead to some improvement. 
   Mr. President, John Doe 3. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will not yield the floor but I will be pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me give my colleague from North Dakota kind of a two-part answer to that question; first of all, farmers and citizens in the community are speaking out, because this is all about rural America. It is a strong and clear voice saying: You have to change the policy. This is not working. We are going under. We cannot get a decent price for what we produce. We cannot cash-flow. 
   So I can very honestly, truthfully say not at one farm gathering anywhere in Minnesota, and I was at a lot of them that not just the farmers showed up at these gatherings. It was farmers bankers, business people, implement dealers, and clergy. It was the community. I promise you, that in the parts of the State I visited approximately fifty percent of the crowd was Republican. But not one of them was defending this farm policy, this Freedom to Farm or ``freedom to fail.'' 
   The second thing I said on the floor of the Senate, and my colleague might want to ask me a follow-up question, I do not see how anybody in the Senate or House of Representatives who has been out there with people can say stay the course. You cannot. We have to change the course. There is just no question about it. 
   I do not care if we call it a modification. You know what I mean. We can go over it. People can talk about a modification; they can talk about a correction. 
   I used to hear people on the floor of the Senate say ``stay the course.'' I do not hear them saying ``stay the course'' anymore. 
   I say to my colleague from North Dakota, the reason I am out here for a while is because I want to make it clear that we want an opportunity to be on this floor with legislation that will make a difference, that will raise the loan rate, get the price up, deal with the problems of all the acquisitions and mergers, and try to put free enterprise back into the food industry. We want to make a difference in order to get this emergency financial assistance package passed. We want to be out here, and we want that opportunity. 
   The second thing I was saying is that in no way, shape, or form should we adjourn without addressing this crisis. I cannot believe when I read in the papers there is this discussion about leaving. I cannot believe there are people who are saying let's get out of here as soon as possible. No, we have work to do. We should not leave until we take the responsibility as legislators, as Senators who represent our States, to write a new farm bill or make the corrections or modifications that will deal with the price; that will give people a chance to farm and stay on their land. My colleague is absolutely right with his question. He is right on the mark. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from North Dakota for his question. I appreciate it. 
   First of all, let me go back to a comment I made earlier, as long as the Senator from North Dakota brings up the example of Europe. I am going to continue to give other examples and talk about what is happening to other farmers in my State of Minnesota in a moment. I intend to stay out on the floor of the Senate and talk about farm prices for a while. I have a ruptured disk in my back, and as long as I can stand, which maybe not be that much longer but a while, I will continue to speak. 
   What is happening is this pain is not Adam Smith's invisible hand. It is not the law of physics. It is not gravity that farmers must fall down. The only inevitability to what is happening to our producers is the inevitability of a stacked deck, a stacked deck which basically ripped away in the ``freedom to fail'' bill any kind of safety net, a stacked deck that does not give our farmers any kind of leverage in the marketplace. 
   Whatever happened to farmer-owned reserves? Whatever happened to raising the loan rate to give people better targeting power, a better target price vis-a-vis the grain companies? 
   And what in the world are we doing about three and four packers who dominate 60 to 70 percent of the market vis-a-vis our livestock producers? 
   So I say to my colleague from North Dakota, yes, the Europeans have decided, given their experience in two wars, food is precious. They do not want people going hungry. They value family farmers, and they think it is in their national interest to support family farmers, and therefore the Europeans have a policy that protects that. I completely agree with my colleague who says we ought to also care as much about family farmers as the Europeans do. 
   When some of my colleagues say, let's rely on the market, farmers kind of smile and say: Free enterprise? Where is it? We want free enterprise. We want competition. But please explain to your colleagues in the Senate that a few packers dominate the market. They are making record profits while we're facing extinction. 
   One example that I think says it all is an example I read earlier, which I cannot find right now. I will have to come back to it. It is about the economics of this. 
   I will talk about John Doe 3 from Euclid, MN, a farmer waiting for a foreclosure of his real estate. But first, I ask my staff to find the example of a grocery store and what farmers are being paid for hogs. 
   Here is the example: Again, Jan Lundebrek of Benson, MN, a loan officer at a small town bank, received a check for $19 from the sale of a 240-pound hog: ``I immediately went across the street to the grocery store and looked at the price of hams. The store was selling hams for $49. I wrote down that price and showed it to the producer. Then we decided to go ask the grocer about the difference.'' 
   She is the loan officer. ``Where does it go? Somebody's getting it, but it isn't the farmer,'' says this Minnesota bank loan officer, Jan Lundebrek of Benson. ``We have policies to keep our country safe. We have a defense policy. We have an education policy. But we don't have a policy to protect our strength. We don't have a food policy to protect our farms, communities, and consumers who spend $49 for a 10-pound ham that the farmers can't even buy through the sale of a 240-pound hog.'' 
   So $49 for a 10-pound ham, and this farmer gets $19 for a 240-pound hog. 
   I am going to go back to the stories of farmers in my State, but as long as I am taking some time on the floor of the Senate seeing Senator DORGAN out here triggered another thought. He was saying the other night, at a Farmers Union gathering, that his parents were Farmers Union members, and he went to many blessed Farmers Union picnics and gatherings. And then he went on to say: My parents would never have believed that. Senator DORGAN, his roots are rural America. He said: My parents would have never believed I would have had a chance to be a Senator. They certainly would not believe that I would be getting an award from the Farmers Union. 
   The only thing I could think of saying at this gathering to the pork producers that were there was: I'm more committed to you than any other Senator, which catches people's attention. I heard Senator DORGAN talk about his background and I thought of my own. The reason why I bring up this story is every time I am at a gathering of pork producers, I am thinking of my mother, Minnie Wellstone, who is up there in Heaven, smiling, I am sure, and saying: Paul, good Jewish boy that you are, what are you doing speaking at all these gatherings of pork producers and organizing with these farmers? 
   So I said at this gathering to Senator DORGAN: If you think your parents would be surprised, believe me, my mother and father would be very surprised. My mother, Minnie Wellstone, was a cafeteria worker. This was her life. Her philosophy was that people should get a decent wage for their work. 
   In many ways, this is what we are talking about. We are saying, if we believe as a country that a person who works hard, 40-hours a week, almost 52 weeks a year, ought to make a living wage and be able to support his or her family, then shouldn't the men and women who provide the food and fiber for our nation make at least a living wage? 
   I think the vast majority of the people agree they should. The vast majority of people believe they should get a decent price. But that is not what is happening right now. This is a crisis. This is a crisis in rural America: Broken dreams and broken lives and broken families, all of it unnecessary. 
   Here is an example: This farmer, John Doe 3, is waiting for a foreclosure on his real estate in northwest Minnesota. He is waiting to see whether FSA can help him. 
   By the way, the Farm Services Administration in Minnesota is doing an excellent job. I say to Tracy Beckman, the director, thank you for your work. But you know what? The Farm Service Administration in Minnesota, and this may very well be the same in the State of Washington and the State of Montana, the FSA local offices are severely understaffed. They cannot even begin to deal with the number of people who are knocking at their door for emergency loans. They are under incredible tension, incredible stress. 
   As a Senator from Minnesota, I would like to thank all of the FSA people for all of their work. It is incredible. We are getting pretty close in Minnesota to asking for an emergency declaration by the President. We are not asking for the declaration because of a tornado, not because of a flood, not because of a hurricane, but because of record low prices that are driving people out. We are arguing that this is a food scarcity crisis for our country. 
   A case worker in northwest Minnesota is working to strike a deal with FSA to take a mortgage on a 16-acre building site, which is all these folks  have left. By doing this, she was hoping to encumber the land so the IRS couldn't force these folks to take out a loan against their home. 
   Since the family did not complete FSA forms in a timely manner, they no longer qualify for any kind of servicing action with FSA except for a straight cash settlement. According to the case worker, since the family filed bankruptcy 2 years ago, no bank will touch them. So they couldn't borrow against their home if they decided on this option. As things stand now, foreclosure on the land is proceeding; and debt settlement proceedings are continuing with the IRS, and at a very slow and difficult pace. 
   It appears this family's only hope is at the mercy of the IRS and to let the IRS do whatever they want to them for another 4 years. Their wages are already being garnished while judgment on the home site is pending, until they can file bankruptcy again to get rid of the huge IRS tax debt. In the meantime, they work for $8 an hour, out of which they lose 25 percent on the IRS garnishment. They live in their home that the IRS values at $30,000, and this includes the 16-acre building site. They drive vehicles that are in such poor condition it is a daily question of whether they will even make it out of the driveway. 
   This is what is happening to people. 
   This year Minnesota ranks the highest in the Nation in understaffed FSA employees. Around 6,000 and I have seen more; this is the most conservative estimate, farms are predicted to go out of existence this year. About 10 percent of farmers are predicted to go out in Minnesota this year, and the number of farmers going out in northwest Minnesota will be much higher. 
   People are going to go under if we continue this failed policy. I don't even see any opportunities. I see a game plan to bring to the floor legislation on which we can't offer amendments. That would basically block us from being able to come to the floor and say: We have some ideas about how we could change farm policy so people could get a decent price, so they and their families can earn a decent living. 
   The reason I am on the floor today and I know this is inconvenient to other Senators, is because it is my job to fight for people in my State. All of us do that. I am saying I want some assurance that we will have the opportunity to come out with amendments on legislation to change farm policy. All of us. That is point 1. 
   The second point is, I certainly want to sound the alarm. I want to say to farmers and rural citizens in our States that are agriculture States: Put the pressure on. Don't let the Senate adjourn without taking action. 
   Don't let people say: We will do these appropriations bills; and we are out of here. That is not acceptable given what is happening to people. That would be the height of irresponsibility. 
   John Doe 4 from Thief River Falls, MN, this is another story of a father and his son. The bank forced the liquidation last year and there was not enough collateral to cover old loans. The father had never mortgaged the home quarter, thinking that if nothing else, they would always have a place to live. As it turns out, the liquidation has caused a major tax liability which they cannot pay. The father is ill and in his 70s, surviving on Social Security payments. The son is working at an $8-an-hour job that leaves little left to pay bills. Currently, the IRS and the bank are fighting it out to see who gets to put a lien on the father's home quarter and his home. This man was once a respected leader in his community. After all that has happened now, there isn't much left but bitterness in his heart and a future of poverty and destitution. 
   I can see the reaction of some people saying: Well, isn't this so sad. 
   Don't be so callous. Let's not be so generous with other people's suffering. I do not believe we should ignore these families, these stories, these lives, this crisis. 
   One more time, I think the end is really rather important. Currently, the IRS and the bank are fighting it out to see who gets to put a lien on the father's home quarter and his home. This man was once a respected leader in the community. After all that has happened now, there isn't much left but bitterness in his heart and a future of poverty and destitution. 
   John Doe 5. For anyone who might be watching right now, as opposed to before, the ``John Doe'' is because I am not using the names of families. These are people who have given me stories of their lives, what is happening to them, because they hope that if we can talk about this in the Senate and make it clear that we will fight for people, that it will make a difference. It is hard for people to have somebody talking about them in public. 
   Here is another story of two families trying to hold on to the farm, still clinging to hope as their farm crumbles. They applied for an FSA loan guarantee, and FSA managed to process the loan for the bank. They are now proceeding with restructuring. However, some of the family members have become very nervous about the large debt that needs to be refinanced and things have begun to fall apart. 
   As it stands now, the two families have decided to abandon the FSA loan and have laid out a partial liquidation plan with the bank. The bank wants the families to sign a plan, agreeing to a formal and inflexible liquidation schedule. The family was hoping to work things out more informally to accommodate tax consequences and adjust for seasonal livestock prices, as their assets are sold. At this point, the families are not sure the bank will agree and 
   are waiting, hoping, and praying that they will make it through. 
   Again, the problem with this particular situation, as in all these stories, is these are people who can't cash-flow. They are just trying to hold on. That is what this is all about. 
   Farmer suicides are one of the deepest tragedies of our Nation's farm crisis. For many men and women, the grueling daily battle against circumstances beyond their control rips away at their spirits. They are haunted that they may be the ones who lose possession of the lands that their great, great grandparents homesteaded and that their grandparents held on to during the darkest days of the Great Depression. That is what people feel. This tragedy is made all the more haunting and real in this letter left by a young farmer, the father of a 6-year-old and a 3-year-old. He committed suicide July 26. 
   After 6 years of hard work and heroic efforts, he knew that bankruptcy was inevitable. He listened to the failing crop prices on the radio report one last time, and he killed himself. His widow made parts of the suicide letter public in an attempt to show the desperation that is gripping farmers throughout rural America. In releasing the letter, she explained that the farm had been in the family for over 100 years. It was the land where her husband was born, worked, dreamed, and died. From the letter:  
   Farming has brought me a lot of memories, some happy but most of all grief. The grief has finally won out, the low prices, bills piling up, just everything. The kids deserve better and so do you. All I ever wanted was to farm since I was a little kid and especially this place. I know now that it's never going to happen. I don't blame anybody but myself for sticking around farming for as long as I have. That's why you have to get away with the kids from this and me. I'm just a failure at everything it seems like. They finally won.  
   I think it is worth reading again. There are some people in northwest Minnesota, Willard Brunelle and others, who are involved in what basically they call Suicide Watch. I think in the last month, Willard said they have paid something like 30 or 40 visits over a month or the last 2 months, if one can imagine. So the letter that the husband leaves to the wife:  
   Farming has brought me a lot of memories, some happy but most of all grief. The grief has finally won out, the low prices, bills piling up, just everything. The kids deserve better and so do you. All I ever wanted was to farm since I was a little kid and especially this place. I know now that it's never going to happen. I don't blame anybody but myself for sticking around farming as long as I have. That's why you have to get away with the kids from this and me. I'm just a failure at everything it seems like. They finally won.  
   By way of apology to my colleagues for, in a way, bringing the Senate to a standstill for a little while, one of the reasons I do so, in addition to the reasons I have mentioned, is that when I was a college teacher in Northfield, MN, I became involved with a lot of the farmers, I guess in the early 1970s, but in the mid-1980s, I did a lot of work with farmers, a lot of organizing with farmers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. There are several friends of mine who took their lives. There were a number of suicides. We had all of these foreclosures, and I used to sit in with farmers and block those foreclosures. It was always done with nonviolence and dignity. 
   I am emotional about what is now going on. I probably need to go back and forth between serious and not so serious, since I am taking some time to talk. I remember that in the mid-1980s, in the State of Minnesota, many people were losing their farms. This is where they not only lived but where they worked. These farmers didn't have much hope and didn't have any empowering explanation as to what was happening to them or how they could fight this. It became fertile ground for the politics of hatred. 
   The Chair and I don't agree on issues, but I respect the Chair. I don't think we engage in this type of politics. But that was really vicious politics of hatred, of scapegoating. When I say ``scapegoating,'' it was anti-Semitic, and all the rest. I am Jewish. I am the son of a Jewish immigrant who fled persecution in Russia. My good friends told me one story about Minnesota and that I should stop organizing because these groups were kind of precursors to an armed militia. When you are five-five-and-a-half, you don't listen to that. I went out and spoke at a gathering in a town we call Alexandria, MN. The Chair knows our State. I finished speaking at this farm gathering, and this big guy came up to me and he said, ``What nationality are you?'' I said, ``American.'' I thought, what is going on here? I hadn't mentioned being Jewish in this talk. 
   He said, ``Where are your parents from?'' No, he said, ``Where were you born?'' I said, ``Washington, DC.'' He said, ``Where are your parents from?'' I said, ``My father was born in the Ukraine and fled persecution. My mother's family was from the Ukraine, but she was born and raised on the Lower East Side of New York City.'' He said, ``Then you are a Jew.'' 
   I tensed up. I mean, I was ready for whatever was going to come next. I said, ``Yes, I am.'' He stuck out this big hand and he said, ``Buddy, I am a Finn, and we minorities have to struggle together.'' That is one of the many reasons I have come to love Minnesota. 
   I think what is happening right now in our farm communities and in our rural communities is far more serious than in the mid-1980s. This is an economic convulsion. We are acting in the Senate and House as if it is business as usual. 
   Greenbush, MN, Jane Doe 6. Here is another problem case where there is not enough collateral to cover all creditors. In a usual situation, FSA has a first mortgage and the bank is in a second position. A good portion of the land is going into CRP, but FSA, or the bank, will not lend the family money to get it established. Even with the CRP payments, there will not be enough money to pay off all the debt by the end of contract. The family is looking to liquidate the farm now and take their licking up front. If they do this, the bank will lose more money than if the family decided to keep the land and CRP. The bank is threatening to try to get the family's truck, their only source of income and equity. 
   These folks are in their sixties and would like to get the matter behind them. They still hope to build up some retirement where they still have their health and they can work. They are not building up any retirement. 
   The toughest question for me to answer is when farmers say: I am burning up all my equity. I am literally burning up my equity to try to keep going. I have a question for you, Senator WELLSTONE, or it could be for any of us. A farmer states, ``I am willing to do this. I have nothing in my savings, no retirement. I have nothing. Do I have any future? Am I going to get a decent price? Because if I don't have any future, I should get out now. But I want to have a future; I want to farm. The farm has been in my family for generations. I want my children to have a chance to 
   farm.'' 
   Well, you know, I want to be able to answer yes. But I think the Senate and the House of Representatives, are going to have to take some action. As it currently looks, we will have a financial assistance package that doesn't do the job. It has to be better. We certainly have to have disaster relief in it, and I will insist on the floor of the Senate again. 
   As I look to some of these AMTA payments, too much of it is going to go to people who don't need it that much. Not enough will go to people who do need the assistance. But we have to get this out to people. That only enables people to live in order to farm another day. But it doesn't tell people where they are the following year, and years to follow. The farmers in Minnesota, in the heartland, the farmers in the South, the farmers in our country are not interested in, year after year after year, hanging on the question of whether there is going to be some emergency assistance for them. They are interested in getting some more power as producers so they can have some leverage in the marketplace; so they can have a decent price; so they can earn a decent living; so they can give their children the care they need and deserve. That is not too much to ask for. 
   When I talk about raising the loan rate for a decent price, we must also tie a safety net piece with antitrust legislation. We need both policies. One of the amendments I will bring to the floor is that we should have a moratorium on these acquisitions and mergers. We must call for a moratorium right now on these big companies until we take a serious look at real antitrust action. Now, it is true that the Cargills, the ConAgras, the IBPs, the ADMs and all the rest are the big players, the heavy hitters. They are the investors. They make big contributions. A lot of these family farmers who I am talking about in Minnesota, and in the other States I visited, are certainly in no position to make big contributions. So to whom does the Senate belong? Does it belong to these big packers? Are we the Senate for ADM, or for ConAgra, or for Cargill? Or are we a Senate that still belongs to family farmers and rural people? 
   In this particular case and I am sorry to have to formulate it this way, but do you know what? It is an accurate formulation. Some people who benefit might like low prices for family farmers. But those are not family farmers. We have to take some action. 
   This is Jane Doe 7, from Thief River Falls, MN. Northwest Minnesota has been hit by too much rain. Farmers were not even able to put in much of their crop. We have had crop disease and record low prices. We can't do anything about the weather, but we can do something about record low prices, can we not, colleagues? Does anybody think we should stay the course any longer? How many farmers have to go under? How many small businesses in our rural communities have to go under? How much more pain does there have to be? 
   What are we waiting for? 
   My State of northwest Minnesota is really hard hit. I have been to so many gatherings. I started out the August break in northwest Minnesota with Congressman COLLIN PETERSON. Congressman PETERSON is from the Seventh Congressional District. During that time touring farms in northwest Minnesota, in spite of all that farmers are going through, gave me hope, and gave me fight. This is the way in which the farmers keep me going because I thought to myself: I am going to go out there and Paul, even if you are full of indignation, and you think what is happening to the producers is just unconscionable, if we have these gatherings at Thief River Falls, Crookston, or wherever, and only 10 farmers show up, then what that means is a lot of people just want to throw in the towel. 
   We had these gatherings. Congressman PETERSON and I had these gatherings together. I am telling you that anywhere from 125 to maybe 400 farmers showed up at a time. They were showing up not because I was there. It had nothing to do with me. It had to do with the reality of their lives. It is the desperation of their lives. They came to make a plea and to say: Please change the farm policy. We can't cash-flow with these prices. Please do something. 
   But the really good part is they came because they still had some fight in them. 
   Then we built up and organized in Minnesota to the Rural Crisis Unity Day; didn't we, Jodi? Jodi Niehoff was there with me from Melrose, MN. She is the daughter of a dairy farmer. We  traveled around the State. We had a Rural Crisis Unity Day. I do not know how many people were there, but it was just a huge gathering at the Carver County Fairground. It was great. 
   What was great about it was we had half the Minnesota delegation there. That is a start. 
   What these farmers were saying, what these bankers were saying, and what these business people were saying is: We don't want you to stay the course. We want you to change the course because on present course we are going to lose our farms and lose our businesses. That is going to affect our schools and our hospitals. We want you to be sensitive to what is going on. 
   Why are we in the Senate so generous with the pain of other people? Why do we think we have so many other things to do that are more important than changing farm policy for these family farmers so these family farmers can survive? 
   What these farmers are now saying is: Can we have a rally? 
   What next? The reason I am taking some time on the floor of the Senate right now is to say what next? We demand the opportunity to be able to bring legislation to the floor to change this policy. That is what I am fighting for. That is what is next. 
   Emergency financial assistance has to be passed. But then there is getting the loan rate up for the price. Then there will be the moratorium proposal on these acquisitions and mergers, Smithfield and Murphy being the latest. It is unbelievable. It is an insult. 
   When I took economics classes, I was taught when you had four firms that dominated over 50 percent of the market, it was an oligarchy at best, and a monopoly at worst. 
   But I will tell you something. I will keep talking about these farmers and what is happening to them. But I will tell you this: It is a matter of needing to take some action now. I am going to do everything I know how as a United States Senator, and everything I know how to do, to make sure before we leave that we have an honest and a thorough debate about agricultural policy. I intend a debate with Senators coming to the floor and bringing forth proposals as to how we can improve this policy so that the family farmers in my State of Minnesota have a chance. But also let's not sound like a speech on the floor of the Senate. I don't have any illusions that it is a tough fight. I said it earlier. 
   In all due respect, a few of these grain companies and a few of these packers are the giants. These are the heavy hitters. These are the people who seem to count today in politics. The sooner we change this rotten system of financing campaigns, the better off we will all be. 
   But what I am picking up on is I think we will be back. First, we will have this vote. We all are accountable. If we change things for the better, great. 
   Senators, do you want to raise the loan rate to get prices up? Do you want to pass antitrust action to give our producers and consumers some protections? Great. But we will have a debate, and we will have a vote. 
   If you vote against it, and you do not have proposals that make any difference, then I will just say this: I think you will see farmers and rural people back in your State. They will put the pressure on. If nothing changes in the next month or so, I hope, frankly, in my State of Minnesota that I will see after harvest and after Thanksgiving debate. Thanksgiving would be a good time to do it, before Hanukkah and Christmas. That would be a good time to talk about the moral dimensions of this crisis. 
   I see the religious community across the board in our metropolitan areas bringing family farmers to our urban communities to meet with people who do not live in rural America to have a dialog, with plenty of media coverage, to again bring to the attention of the Nation what is happening. Because I think one of our challenges is people sort of find it hard to believe. They say: Well, Senator WELLSTONE, you are out here on the floor, and you all are talking about this crisis, but the economy is booming while we have this depression in agriculture. 
   We need to talk about the depth of the crisis, and also all the ways in which this affects America. We don't want a few people to own all the land. We don't want these conglomerates to muscle their way to the dinner table and control our whole food industry, all the way from the seed to the grocery shelf. We don't want to have these big factory farm operations. You can see it in some of these huge hog feed lot operations right now, which are so polluting and so disrespectful of the land and the air and the water. As a Catholic bishop said 15 years ago, ``We are all but strangers and guests in this land.'' We are here to make a better, maybe not Heaven on Earth, but a better Earth on Earth. 
   Do you think that these conglomerates, when they become farmers and make all the decisions, that they will have any respect for the communities? Do you think they are going to buy in the communities? Do you think they are going to have any respect for the land, the water, and for the environment? Do we really want, with such a precious item as food, to see this kind of concentration of power? 
   It is absolutely frightening. 
   I am a Midwesterner though born in Washington, DC, and attended school at the University of North Carolina, but we have lived in Minnesota and our children have grown up there, as have our grandchildren. I have had a chance to do some travel in the South. It is the same. I remember going to Lubbock, TX. At farms down there, we heard the producers speak. It is different crops, but everything else is the same. They are talking about cotton, rice, peanuts. It is the same thing; they can't make a living. 
   Everywhere I go, I get a chance to speak and meet with farmers and their families. People come up to speak; I hear a voice that says: Thanks for coming, Senator; thank you for sharing. I turn around to shake hands and see whoever made those remarks crying. I see people with tears in their eyes. 
   How would you feel if you were going to lose everything? How would you feel if this were where you lived, this were where you worked, this were a farm that had been in your family for generations? It is so painful. It is so painful. 
   Maybe this is the definition of being a bleeding-heart liberal. Maybe that is what I epitomize here. But I don't think so. I am a liberal, but that has nothing to do with bleeding-heart liberal. It does have to do with me being a Senator from the State of Minnesota. I am a Senator from an agricultural State. I am a Senator who comes from a State with a thriving metropolitan area, Minneapolis-St. Paul and suburbs--a great place to live. I am a Senator from Minnesota, and the other part of our State is in economic pain. I am not going to be in the Senate while so many of these farmers go under, are spat out of the economy, chopped into pieces, without fighting like heck. 
   I have some leverage as a Senator that I can exert, I can focus on. I can call for a debate and insist on a debate. I have so many colleagues who care so much about this. I wish I knew agriculture as well as some of them. I know it pretty well. Some of the Senators are immersed in it. Senator DASCHLE, our leader--I hear him speak all the time because he is a leader of the Democrats. When he talks about agriculture, it is completely different. We can see it is from the heart and soul. Senator HARKIN, ranking minority member of the Senate Agriculture Committee--nobody cares more; no one is tougher; no one is more of a fighter. Both Senators from North Dakota, Senator DORGAN and Senator CONRAD--Senator CONRAD always has graphs, charts, and figures; he is just great with numbers. He knows this quantitatively and knows it every other way. Senator DORGAN is on the floor all the time. Senator JOHNSON from South Dakota is unpretentious. He cares for people. It is great to have a Member like that in the Senate. 
   I get sick of the bashing of public service. There are so many good people. Senator GRASSLEY from Iowa--we don't agree on everything, but we had a hearing, that Senator GRASSLEY and Senator HARKIN were kind enough to invite me to in Iowa, dealing with the whole question of concentration of power. Senator GRASSLEY asked a lot of tough questions about what is going on with all the mergers and acquisitions. There is Senator BLANCHE LINCOLN. When she speaks abut agriculture, it is unbelievable. It is her life, her farm, her family. There is nothing abstract about this to  her. Or Senator LANDRIEU who was at our gathering today. 
   It is Midwest; it is South. 
   Senator ROBERTS from Kansas--I don't agree with him, but he cares. He is a capable Senator. Senator LUGAR, who I think is one of the Senators who knows the most about foreign affairs, I do not agree with him on this policy question, but you can't find a better Senator. 
   I am not here to bash Senators; I am out here to say that I think this institution, the Senate, is on trial in rural America. This institution cannot afford to turn its gaze away from what is happening in rural America, to put family farmers and rural people 
   in parentheses and act as if that isn't happening. We can't afford to do this. 
   I come to the floor of the Senate today to make a plea for action. I come to the floor of the Senate today to say I am going to be coming to the floor of the Senate in these mini filibusters. I call it a ``mini'' filibuster because I don't have that good of a back. If I had a good back, I could go for many more hours. I cannot stand for that long. As soon as I sit down, I lose the privilege to speak. However, I can come to the floor of the Senate several long hours at a time and keep insisting that, A, we have the opportunity to be out here with legislation to address this crisis in agriculture--that is not an unreasonable request, I say to the majority leader--and, B, to make it crystal clear that I will do everything I can to prevent the Senate from adjourning. I say this to my legislative director. We should not adjourn until we take this action. 
   Jane Doe, Thief River Falls, MN: Multiple years of bad weather and poor prices have destroyed the cash flow in this farming operation. The family put much of the land into CRP--the Conservation Reserve Program--to make payment to creditors. A couple of years ago, the hay market was good and the family decided to put the balance into alfalfa. Since then, prices for hay have fallen substantially and again bad grain greatly reduced the quality of the hay produced, thereby making it more difficult to sell. The family is hoping for some relief through their crop insurance. If their crop insurance fails, they will have to sell some of the land to pay down debt before the entire farm is lost. 
   This is a case of an older couple trying to help their son continue the farming operation and it slipped away from them. The father borrowed on his real estate to help his son get established and used his pension as collateral. He needed additional funds, so he borrowed again on the real estate and used his Social Security check as collateral. Bad weather and poor prices again took their toll. This time he borrowed on his cattle and machinery, using it to refinance the farming operation. In the meantime, with no income left on which to live, the parents were forced to use credit cards to finance their family living. The amount accumulated to about $25,000 on a number of credit cards. The family is no longer able to keep up with the payments to the card companies. They have gotten together and decided that liquidation is the only solution. 
   Some of the land has been sold and they are working with the two banks to reduce payments to free up some money on which to live day to day until the remaining land can be sold. The cattle and machinery will be sold next year. In the meantime, the parents, who are well in their 70s, are having some health problems. Steps are being taken to get the county nursing services involved to address their medical needs. 
   I will make a couple of different points, as long as we are talking about nursing homes. This is a slight deviation, but I think it is all interrelated when we are talking about rural America. Because of this Budget Act that we passed 2 years ago, with these caps, we are now in a situation where the Medicare reimbursement is so low that it is literally going to shut down many of our rural hospitals, including those in my State of Minnesota. I did not vote for it. I am glad I did not. But the point is, it does not matter. 
   As long as we are talking about a family with this kind of pain, here is another thing that hasn't been mentioned. The home health care services and the hospitals in our rural communities, especially in those States that kept costs down, such as Minnesota, are now being penalized for having kept costs down. Because we don't have any fat in our system, the Medicare reimbursement is way below the cost of providing care, and guess what, you don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that many of the citizens in our rural communities are elderly, especially since fewer and fewer of our young people can farm and live in the communities. 
   I was at a meeting yesterday with Senator MOYNIHAN in his office. He brought together a number of Senators to talk about this. From teaching hospitals to nursing homes to our rural hospitals to home health care, we have seen the equivalent of Draconian cuts in reimbursement, and they cannot go on. What a bitter irony. We have young people in our rural communities who cannot look to a future as family farmers because, one, they cannot afford to farm because of this failed policy, what many farmers call not Freedom to Farm but ``farming for free.'' Two, as they think about whether they want to live in our rural communities, the second question besides ``Can I afford to?'' is ``Do I want to?'' When there isn't good health care and hospitals shut down and there isn't a good school system and there aren't small businesses, you don't want to live in the community. That is what is going on. 
   Why am I out here? Why am I engaged in a filibuster right now? Because a lot of the small towns in my State of Minnesota are going to become ghost towns if something isn't done. That is a fact. They are going to become ghost towns. So it seems to me it is important for the Senate to address this question. 
   Jane Doe 8, from Greenbush, MN: I say to my colleague, the Senator from Kentucky, I say Jane Doe and John Doe because people don't want their names being used. I don't blame them. We are talking about people's lives. But these people did want others to know what is happening to them because these farm families in my State of Minnesota believe if Senators know what is happening to them, understand the dimensions of this crisis, that the Senate will take action to change things for the better. You know what? 
   Some people will have a cynical smile on their face and say: How naive. I say: Good for the people. They should continue to believe if we only understand what is happening to them we will make things better. That is what citizens should believe. That is what citizens should believe. My only prayer is that we do make things better. 
   Jane Doe 8, Greenbush, MN: This family tried to split its farming operation from the locker plant business because both were going under. However, the family did not qualify for a rural development loan and the bank was not willing to wait to see if the Small Business Administration could be brought into the picture. The bank is currently working on the liquidation, and the family is trying to salvage what they can of their home and building site. 
   I have, in addition to Minnesota, some Farm Aid stories as well. Jane Doe 9, from Felton, MN: This is a farmer who is voluntarily liquidating his grain and sugar beet operation. He sold off much of his beet stock to reduce debt but was hoping to get lenders to hold off on a machinery auction until next year because of the taxes he will have to pay on the sugar beet stock. The lenders are refusing, citing concerns of decreasing machinery values due to all the auction sales in that area. Unless he can find another lender to pay off the current nervous lender, this farmer will incur a major tax problem and may be forced to sell some of his land in order to pay the taxes he owes from other forced sales he has had to make. 
   This is a father and son operation in which they are trying to transfer the farm to the son at market value and leave the remaining debt with the father. This is a situation where there is more debt than the farm is worth. In addition, the father's spouse has Alzheimer's disease and is currently in a nursing home. If the farm can be transferred to the son at market value, there is hope to make the operation viable and he could thereby support his parents as best he could. The father would be destitute and would have to try to work some kind of debt settlement out with FSA and other lenders.  
   This is a simple case of voluntary liquidation. This is a story of a fairly new farm couple who was farming in partnership with the husband's uncle. The husband suffered a farm accident which has rendered his right arm useless. The couple recently went through a liquidation plan. Fortunately, the couple had not acquired much debt and they will get out. In this situation, the couple was determining options toward liquidation on their farm because they could see no way to continue farming their operation. 
   The primary concern of the couple was to be able to keep their home and building site. The couple has a number of outstanding bills from creditors yet to be paid one of the companies has filed a lien as well as debt with FSA and a local bank. Only about a third of the cropland was planted this spring due to wet conditions. The current plan is to wait until October to take any further servicing action. What little crop the couple harvests will go toward paying off the debt. 
   Both the wife and husband are working other jobs off the farm, as well as doing the existing farm operations after their work. They also farm the husband's parents' land. Should they decide to quit, this creates questions as to how his parents are going to make their debt payments and have any income to live on. This couple will have to wait until October and then assess the situation after the harvest. 
   Jane Doe 10 from Thief River Falls, MN. The farm is already liquidated and, in doing so, created a serious tax consequence with which she is now trying to deal. She used the farm wrap program to help cover CPA work as she negotiates with IRS and the State of Minnesota. At this moment, there is not much to do except wait and let the chips fall where they may. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have some letters. We had Farm Aid this weekend in Manassas. There were a number of people there. Willie Nelson, of course, has been doing this for years. He was joined by Neil Young and John Mellencamp and many other artists and many other farmers. The most important thing about this, and I give them all the credit in the world, is not only the money they raised to help farmers, but this time they really put a focus on this crisis. They are not Johnny-come-lately. They have been at this for any number of years. They were talking about the need to change farm policy:  
   Dear Willie Nelson and Farm Aid: My father has been a rancher and farmer all his life.  
   Before I do this, let me say, again, these are going to be letters from all around the country that go to the heart of what is going on, but, because of a bad back, I probably will be finishing up relatively soon. Hopefully, this is just the beginning of pushing as hard as I can. 
   My wife Sheila and I were at the Farm Aid. It was very moving because one can only really appreciate it when musicians and artists care about people and are willing to donate their talents. Also, there were a lot of farmers there. Again, I will tell you this is the most emotional thing for me since I have been in the Senate. This is the most emotional experience I have had, seeing what people have been going through. 
   I say to the Chair now, the Senator from Ohio, for the last several hours I have been going through stories of families, many who want to be anonymous, but it is their economic situation. They cannot cash-flow on these prices. They cannot. What I have been saying each time there is a new Presiding Officer--I get to make a plea to the new Presiding Officer--what I have been saying is that I am not arrogant, and there can be different proposals, but we cannot leave here without having the debate and some amendments and legislation that hopefully will pass which will change the course, which will make the difference. 
   The status quo is unacceptable because, under status quo, we are going to have a whole generation of producers that are going to be gone. That is all there is to it. This will be the death knell for our rural communities, and I think it will be, as I have said more than once in the last several hours, this will be a transition that our Nation will deeply regret because the last thing in the world a good conservative Republican wants is for a few people to own all the land. 
   We want competition. We want to see our producers have some leverage in the marketplace so they can get a decent price. That is what this is all about. 
   We need antitrust action. It is interesting. I am really surprised, frankly, more hasn't been made of Viacom wanting to buy CBS. That is overflow of information in a democracy. It is scary to have a few companies control so much. 
   Food is very precious, and we do not want a few conglomerates basically controlling all of this. 
   I am moving from Minnesota to a letter to Farm Aid requesting help. Names are withheld:  
   Dear Mr. Willie Nelson and Farm Aid: 
   My father has been a rancher and a farmer all of his life. He started as a teenager on his father's sheep and cattle ranch in Eastern Nevada and over the years has had his share of hard work and battles with drought, poor stock and crop prices, bad neighbors who have tried to run him out of business, the IRS, the Forest Service, the BLM (Bureau of Land Management) the FHA (now FSA), etc. Those who have contributed the most to his demise have been the IRS, the BLM and the FSA. Drought and poor crop prices have also contributed a significant blow, in the last several years, to his hay farming operation which is located 50 miles from Ely, Nevada, the closest town. He is single, he lives alone with no family close by, he is 85 years old, his health is failing, his knees are so bad he can hardly make it to the mailbox which is 100 feet from the house. His wife left him a few years ago, after 25 years of marriage just for reasons associated with his prostate operation. He was involved several years ago in a hay bailer accident which rendered his left arm useless. He struggles to eke out a meager living from a 600-acre alfalfa hay farm with the help of two Mexicans, which now he no longer can pay and had to let go. Without their help he cannot harvest his hay. He used to own 750 acres of alfalfa, but the FSA--  
   By the way, these are letters, not positions I am taking. This is what people are saying--  
   left him with 600 acres and without justification would not loan him the funds to replace a caved in water well which feeds 160 acres of the 600 left. Last year the bottom fell out of the hay market and he was forced to sell his hay at an enormous loss. This left him with no funds to grow or harvest the hay this year or pay all of his bills. He gets $500 a month from Social Security, most of which goes for drugs and medical care and has been forced to borrow money from family to feed himself. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in the remaining time I have left--and I am not going to take much more time. I characterize this, as I said, as sort of a mini-filibuster or, in any case, it is all I can do in several hours. I can talk about this all day and all night. It is not that I am at a loss of words. But physically I will not be able to go on much longer. The best way to do this is to print in the RECORD this very poignant testimony from Farm Aid. 
   I will jump from the last part of my presentation to a few facts and figures. Maybe I will finish up on this. I will talk about market concentration. 
   Four firms control 83 percent of all beef slaughter, four firms control 73 percent of sheep slaughter, four firms control 62 percent of flour milling, four firms control 57 percent of pork slaughter. This is from the work of Bill Hefrin, from the University of Missouri, who does superb work. 
   This concentration will result in four or five food and fiber clusters that control production from the gene to the store shelf. Is that what the American people want? When we get these alliances of Monsanto, Cargill, and all the rest, they will reduce market concentration to farmers. These clusters will eliminate independent farmers and businessowners. These clusters will make it difficult for new firms to start. And these clusters will prevent consumers from realizing lower prices. 
   Listen to this, consumer America: Since 1984, real consumer food prices have increased by 2.8 percent, while producer prices for that food have fallen 35.7 percent. Do any of the consumers in America, do any families in America, feel a 35-percent drop in food prices? Of course not. 
   The farm retail spread grows wider and wider. This concentration threatens global security. A few dominant multinational firms are going to control information, markets, decisionmaking, and seed packets. There is a new technology. It is incredible when you hear about this terminator technology which is inserting a gene to prevent the next generation of seed from germinating which, again, threatens economic viability, sustainability. 
   We are talking about livestock confinement, huge feeding operations, with all of the environmental challenges. We are talking about multinational firms that remove profits from local communities. As I said, we have talked about this huge concentration of power. 
   For example, four of every five beef cattle are slaughtered by the four largest firms: IBP; ConAgra; Excel, owned by Cargill; and Farmland National Beef. 
   Three of every five hogs are slaughtered by the four largest firms. The top four include Murphy, Carroll's Foods, Continental Grain, and Smithfield. And now Smithfield wants to buy up Murphy. 
   Half of all the broilers are slaughtered by the largest four firms. The six largest are: Tyson, Gold Kist, Perdue Farms, Pilgrim's Pride, ConAgra, and Wayne. 
   Listen, when you look at the grain industry, you have the same situation where, when farmers look to whom they sell the grain, it is a few large companies that dominate. 
   Let me conclude. 
   I say to my colleagues, I have come to the floor of the Senate and have spoken for several hours to make a plea and to make a demand. I have tried to put this farm crisis in personal terms. I thank the farmers in Minnesota for letting me speak about their lives. 
   I have said that the status quo is unconscionable, it is unacceptable. I have said we have to change the policy. We have to give people a decent price. That we can do. I have said that the reason I have come to the floor of the Senate is to make the demand that: Yesterday, if not tomorrow, if not next week, we have the opportunity to bring legislation to the floor to deal with this crisis. 
   I have come to the floor of the Senate to say that we cannot adjourn--it would not be responsible, it would not be right--without taking action to help improve the situation for farmers. Why else are we here but to try to do better for people? What could be more important than for us, the Senate, as an institution--Democrats and Republicans--to pass legislation that would correct these problems and help alleviate this suffering and pain and make such a positive difference in the lives of so many people in Minnesota that I love--so many farmers in so many rural communities? 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I speak today in honor of Mr. Bruce E. Scott, R.Ph., MS, FASHP., a constituent of mine from Minnesota. Mr. Scott has recently been elected to serve as the president of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists ASHP. His leadership will be valuable as ASHP pursues its primary mission--the safe and effective use of medications. Mr. Scott, as president of ASHP, will represent pharmacists practicing in hospitals, health maintenance organizations, long-term care facilities, home care, hospice and other health-care settings. 
   Mr. Scott is currently Vice President of Pharmacy Operations for Allina Health Systems headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota. Allina is a non-profit health care system serving residents of Minnesota, Wisconsin and North and South Dakota. As Vice President of Pharmacy Operations, Mr. Scott is responsible for providing pharmacy services in four metropolitan hospitals with 1700 beds and for developing pharmacy services for Allina Medical Group, with 500 health care providers and 65 clinics. 
   Exercising his commitment to the future of pharmacy leadership, Mr. Scott continues to serve as Clinical Assistant Professor and Associate Member of the Graduate Program in Hospital Pharmacy at the University of Minnesota College of Pharmacy in Minneapolis, a non-salaried position he has held for more than 10 years. As a member of the graduate facility, Mr. Scott assists and  advises graduate students in conducting their research and serves as a guest lecturer at the University. 
   After receiving his Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy from the University of Wisconsin School of Pharmacy, Mr. Scott went on to complete his Master of Science in Pharmacy Practice from the University of Kansas School of Pharmacy. Prior to election as President of the ASHP, Mr. Scott served as a member of ASHP Boards of Directors. He also held the distinguished position of President of the Minnesota Society of Hospital Pharmacists from 1992-1993, and in 1994 he was named a Fellow of the ASHP in recognition of his sustained contributions to pharmacy practice excellence. 
   American Society of Health-System Pharmacists is fortunate to have an individual with the credentials of Mr. Scott at its helm, as the organization devotes its attention to issues of patient safety and the effective use of prescription medications.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, issues surrounding natural resource management present some of the most contentious and difficult problems we as policymakers face. Trying to ensure that our federal forestry policy is responsible and environmentally sustainable has been especially difficult, and we have sometimes fallen woefully short in this area. We can and must do much better. I have seen the awful results of clear-cutting, uncontrolled erosion, and other abuses by the logging industry, and I believe we must bring those abuses to an end now. 
   Even so, our national forests are tremendous resources for a variety of uses, including everything from timber harvesting to recreation. My state of Minnesota depends on these resources for jobs and family incomes; wood, industrial materials, paper and pulp; and family vacations and recreation. Above all, we must protect our national forests to ensure that these resources will be available for future generations. For these reasons, I have long supported carefully controlled, environmentally sustainable multiple use of our national forests. 
   I share many of my colleague Senator BRYAN's legitimate concerns about the future health of our nation's  forests, and about the abuses that have been allowed in certain regions under the Forest Service's timber sales program--especially in essential areas of biodiversity such as the Pacific Northwest. I recognize that these environmentally harmful forest management practices have serious long-term consequences for the health of our forests, and that they must be stopped. 
   The Timber Sale Management Program is in need of significant reform in many regions of our nation. I believe that my record shows clearly my support for reforming the program to ensure a more responsible and environmentally sustainable forestry effort. But this amendment would reduce by approximately $32 million current funding levels for the program, and it could create some special problems in my state, where the Forest Service has generally been quite responsible in its timber sale efforts. 
   In my state of Minnesota, on July 4, 1999, we experienced a huge, once-in-a-thousand-year wind and rain storm that damaged and destroyed homes, businesses, public facilities, and wilderness areas in our national forests. Approximately 300,000 acres in seven counties were hit by the storm, which damaged as much as 70 percent of the trees in certain areas and washed out numerous roads. The damage caused by this storm has severely hindered the U.S. Forest Service's ability to responsibly manage the Chippewa and Superior National Forests. While I have worked successfully with my colleagues in the Minnesota delegation to ensure that approximately $12 million in emergency funding is reprogrammed from elsewhere in the Forest Service budget to support timber salvage efforts in Minnesota, it is clear that much is yet to be done, and that it is going to take many years to dig out from under the storm and to restore the forest to its former state. 
   As I've observed, the Forest Service in Minnesota has a long tradition of generally responsible and publicly accountable forest management practices. I believe, especially as the post-storm clean-up there proceeds over the coming months and years, that the Forest Service must have adequate resources to deal with the storm's devastation. This amendment would cut approximately $32 million from proposed funding for the Timber Sale Management Program, decreasing last year's funding for this program by approximately $30 million. While I know that this funding is not yet precisely allocated to the various regions, I am concerned that a cut of this size might constrain the Service's overall capacity to adequately support efforts to recover, repair and rehabilitate public lands in Minnesota hard hit by the storm, and for that reason I think it would be unwise. 
   As I said, I recognize the problems with the Timber Sales Management Program, particularly in the Pacific Northwest, and I remain committed to supporting efforts to bring a halt to these environmentally unsustainable abuses. Even though I cannot support this amendment today, I look forward to working with my colleague Senator BRYAN and others to find ways to reform and improve the forest management practices of the Forest Service, and of those private industry firms with whom it cooperates, to eliminate the abuses of our forests which have been brought to light during this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Wyoming, I did not hear all of his remarks, but I always appreciate what he has to say, agree or disagree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will not speak for a long time about the economic convulsion in agriculture. I think my colleague sees some of this in Wyoming as well. I said last week I was going to come to the floor and talk about what is happening to family farmers in Minnesota and around the country. I want to speak about this briefly today and announce a bill that I will be introducing. I also want to say to my colleagues, as I see us moving forward over the next couple of days this week, that I do intend to be back on the floor with amendments that relate to how we can get a decent price for family farmers and how we can get some competition and how we can put some free enterprise back into the food industry. 
   I am also prepared--and I am sure other Senators would feel the same way if they came from an agricultural State--I am also prepared, starting this week and every week, to spend a considerable amount of time before the Senate talking, not so much in statistical terms but more in personal terms, about what is happening. 
   I give, by the way, a lot of credit to Willie Nelson and Neil Young and John Mellencamp for putting together Farm Aid. I had a chance to be there yesterday morning with my wife Sheila. It was an important gathering. I thank them for bringing some attention to the crisis in agriculture and what is happening to family farmers. 
   They are not Johnny-come-latelys. They have been at this for some time. There was a rally this morning, a ``Save the Family Farm'' coalition rally, and then the Farmers Union was meeting with Secretary Glickman. I know there are hundreds of Farmers Union members who are going to be meeting with Republican and Democratic Senators. 
   What everybody is saying right now is, we have this convulsion in agriculture. When I was a college teacher in the mid-1980s in Northfield, MN, in Rice County, I did a lot of organizing with farmers. I had some friends who took their lives. I am not being melodramatic, unfortunately. I was at more  foreclosures than I ever wanted to be. I saw a tremendous amount of economic pain. 
   What we are experiencing now in agriculture in this country is far worse. On present course, we are going to lose, as I said last week, a generation of family farmers. I simply say, in an emphatic way, the political question for us is whether we stay the course or whether we change course. I do not believe that any Senator, Democrat or Republican, who comes from a State like the State of Minnesota and who has been traveling in communities and seeing the pain in people's eyes and seeing people who literally are almost at the very end, could not take the position that we have to do something different when it comes to agricultural policy. 
   I am not going to be shrill today--or hopefully any other day--but I am telling my colleagues, the status quo is unacceptable. It is unacceptable. The piece of legislation we passed several years ago called Freedom to Farm--I believe it's really ``Freedom to Fail,'' though others can take a different position--at minimum has to be modified. If we do not take the cap off the loan rate and we do not have some kind of target price and we do not do something to make sure that farmers have a decent price for what they produce so they can get the cash flow to earn a decent living, they are going to go under. Many of them are going under right now as I speak. 
   The second thing I want to talk about is a piece of legislation I will offer this week as an amendment to the bankruptcy bill. I will have plenty of data. For example, five firms account for over 80 percent of beef packing market. That is a higher concentration than the FTC found in 1918 leading up to enactment of the Packers and Stockyards Act. Six firms account for 75 percent of pork packing. Now we have a situation where Smithfield wants to buy out Murphy. And the largest four grain buyers control nearly 40 percent of the elevator facilities. 
   The legislation I am going to introduce--I am now waiting for the final draft from legislative counsel--will impose a moratorium on mergers, acquisitions, and marketing agreements among dealers, processors, commission merchants, brokers, or operators of a warehouse of agricultural commodities with annual net sales or total assets of more than $50 million. 
   The moratorium would last for 1 year, or until Congress enacts legislation that addresses the problems of concentration of agriculture, whichever comes first. I think Senator DORGAN is working on a similar piece of legislation. I am sure there are other Senators who are going to be talking about this. 
   Going back to the Sherman Act or the Clayton Act, or Senator Estes Kefauver's work in the 1950s, Congress has said there was a role for Government to protect consumers and also to protect producers. In fact, a lot of the history of the Sherman Act and Clayton Act goes back to agriculture and the concerns of family farmers. 
   What I am saying in this legislation is, obviously, the status quo is not working. These conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table. They are pushing family farmers out. There is no real competition in the food industry any longer. In order for our producers to get a decent price, and in order to make sure our producers and family farmers have a future, in order to make sure the rural communities of my State of Minnesota have a future, we are going to have to take some action. Our action and our legislation ought to be on the side of family farmers. 
   So I intend to introduce this bill later today. I will also draft this as an amendment to the bankruptcy bill. I also will be on the floor with other amendments. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy bill applies all too well to family farmers in my State of Minnesota and to family farmers all around the country. 
   There are other colleagues who want to speak, so I am going to try to conclude in the next 3 or 4 minutes, I say to my colleague from Oregon. I will not take a lot of time because we only have an hour and others want to speak as well. 
   But I have had a chance to travel a lot in Minnesota. I have had a chance to spend time in other States--in Iowa, in Texas, in Missouri. I have met with a lot of organizers around the country--in the Midwest and in the South--and I am telling you that I think rural America has to take a stand. I do not care whether we use the language of modifying legislation or amending legislation. 
   I personally thought the Freedom to Farm was really ``Freedom to Fail'' from the word ``go.'' Others can have different opinions. But for sure, time is not on the side of family farmers. A lot of people in Minnesota, a lot of farmers are 45, 50 years old. They are burning their equity up. They look at me hard, and they say: Look, Paul, do we basically take everything we have and try to keep this farm going? We will. We want to. It has been in our family for four generations. We love farming. But if there is no future for us, tell us now. 
   I do not want to tell family farmers in Minnesota there is no future for them. I do not want to tell our rural communities there is no future for them. I do not want to tell our country that a few conglomerates are going to own all the land. Then what will the price be, and what will be the quality of the food? Will there be an agriculture that respects the air and the land and the water and the environment? I think not. 
   I do not think our country is yet engaged. I hope the national media will cover this crisis. And it is a crisis. I will be coming to the floor of the Senate with longer and longer and longer and longer speeches, backed up by lots of data and statistics of what is happening in Minnesota, backed up with a lot of personal stories of hard-working people who have now lost their farms, where they not only live but where they have also worked. I will have amendments on legislation, in an effort to change things for the better. 
   If my colleagues have other ideas about how to change things for the better, great. Then get out on the floor of the Senate--this week, next week, the following week. Personally, at this point in time, I am focused on family farmers in the State of Minnesota. I am focused on our rural communities. I am focused on family farmers and rural communities all across our country. 
   I intend, as a Senator, to do everything I can on the floor of the Senate to fight for people, everything I know how to do to fight for people. I also am going to spend as much time as I can organizing the farmers because I am convinced, I say to Senator REID and Senator WYDEN, we are going to need farmers and rural people to come and rock this capital before we get the change we need. But we are going to keep pushing very hard. An awful lot of good people's lives are at stake. 
   I think in many ways this is a question that speaks to what America is about as well. I cannot be silent on it. I know of many Senators from other agricultural States who feel the same way. We have to push this on to the agenda of the Congress, and we have to do it now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in the final 1 minute--and I did not bring any talking points; I do not have it written now--I would like to thank the President. I was critical of the President last week about East Timor, but I think we ought to give credit where credit is due. 
   I am glad he spoke out. I am glad he put pressure on the Indonesian Government. I know there are a number of important questions to resolve about the nature of whatever kind of peacekeeping force goes in, but the sooner the better because this has been genocide. An awful lot of people have had the courage to stand up against the repressive government, or in this particular case, stand up for the independence of East Timor, that have been murdered. The sooner we get an international presence, an international force in there, the better. 
   I think the President was forceful this past weekend and should continue to be forceful. We should not let the Indonesian Government delay. The sooner we get a force in there to protect people, and to follow through on the mandate of the people--which was something the United Nations sponsored and supported, where the people voted for their own independence--I think the better off the world will be because whenever our Government can be on the side of human rights, then we  are living up to who we are as a Nation. 
   I thank my colleagues and yield the floor. 
   Mr. WYDEN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think the Hutchison amendment is one of the most outrageous provisions to be offered to the Interior appropriations bill and shouldn't be included in this legislation. This amendment would restrict the Interior Department from doing its job, which is to make sure that these oil companies pay full royalties for the oil they are drilling on Federal and Indian lands. 
   I thank the Senator from California, who is willing to stand up to oil companies. There are many Senators who will not do so. The Senator from California has the courage to do it. 
   I don't know why it is that all of a sudden we appear to have such sympathy for people who appear to be cheating the public. I know that when it comes to finding out what is happening to poor women and children, we do not seem to have a lot of interest in figuring out what is going on in their lives. I know that when we try to raise the minimum wage, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to block that. But in through the door walks the CEO of one of these large, integrated oil companies that has been underpaying its royalties--oil companies that have been heavy campaign contributors--and all of sudden we have sympathy to spare. We have sympathy coming out the wazoo. We feel their pain. All of a sudden, it is: ``At your service; we can do it for you, Senator. How can we serve you better?'' 
   This is a vote about whether or not we have an open, accountable political process. These companies should pay their 
   fair share, and when they try to get away with basically not being honest and paying what they owe the public, they call on their friends in the Congress. The Republican-led Congress answers their call without a moment's hesitation with an amendment to this bill. Congress comes to the rescue and rewards them for chronically underpaying the royalties which they owe to people in this country. 
   That is what this is all about. 
   I think this amendment is a sweetheart deal. It lets the oil companies off the hook. Frankly, I don't believe we should let them do that--not if we represent the people in this country. 
   I thank the Senator for her amendment. I will vote against tabling the amendment because I want to have a lot of debate and discussion. Because the more the people in this country know what is at stake on the floor of the Senate and understand what is going on, the better the chance we have of a significant victory. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I don't have time. But I agree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I don't think the rider belongs on this bill. I don't think the rider belongs on any bill. I think these oil companies should pay the royalty. I think the public is cheated when they don't. I don't think, because they are big contributors and heavy hitters, that they should be taken off the hook. I don't believe it should be included in any bill, especially this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak for 10 minutes, followed on our side by Senator BOXER and Senator DORGAN, 10 minutes each. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, while Senator FEINGOLD is in the Chamber, I wish to indicate my support for his effort--our effort--to make it crystal clear to the Government of Indonesia that the brutal murder of the men and women of East Timor has to stop, that we will hold the Government of Indonesia accountable, that we will do everything we can to exert our leverage, including the question of whether there will be any financial assistance, and that the world community is watching. We want to communicate from the floor of the Senate our support to the people of East Timor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before going to the main topic of my remarks, I wish to briefly speak about a story today in the papers that I just think Senators, Democrats and Republicans, must take note of. This is the report. Top executives of CBS and VIACOM will be huddling today with top officials of the Federal Communications Commission. CBS-VIACOM executives will be lobbying the FCC to approve their proposed merger and to relax FCC restrictions on media concentration. 
   Mr. President, I think that FCC Chairman Kennard has done an excellent job, but I do believe this private meeting would be improper and inappropriate. I think the meeting should be held in public. I think the public needs to know what is going on. I say this because I cannot think of anything more frightening in a representative democracy than to continue to see this consolidation of media, these media mergers, and this concentration of power over the flow of information. 
   I think this is a terribly important question. I think it goes to the heart of the functioning of our democracy. Our democracy depends upon citizen access to a wide and divergent range of views and information. We depend upon a free and independent media that will hold both private and public power accountable to people. This dramatic surge in media concentration makes this more difficult. It makes it more difficult for our media to perform these essential functions. I believe we are seeing a breathtaking, frightening concentration of power in the media over the flow of information, and I think it constitutes a direct threat to our democracy. 
   I hope this meeting and this debate will take place publicly and that there will be meaningful coverage by the major media in our country of this proposed merger of CBS and Viacom. The public needs to be engaged in this debate. This is a serious and important question. Media concentration is a real threat to our representative democracy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take a brief period of time today, I say to my colleagues and to the Chair who cares deeply about this issue as well, I intend to take the time I need to give a report to the Senate and to the country about what is happening in agriculture. I say this to the Chair who I know cares deeply about this. 
   I have spent most all of August organizing with farmers. I have spent almost all my time in our agricultural and rural communities. I can tell my colleagues that we are now experiencing an economic convulsion, and on our present course we are going to lose a whole generation of farmers and producers. This is not just a battle or a struggle for a fair price for family farmers, it is a struggle for the survival of our rural communities. 
   I spent time in northwest Minnesota, in southeast Minnesota, in west central Minnesota, and then in southwest Minnesota, at one farm gathering after another. The good news is that many farmers turned out for our meetings, and that made me proud as a Senator. The bad news is that people are in such economic pain. The bad news is that people are in such desperate shape. The bad news is that people who have worked so hard and are asking for nothing more than a decent price so they can have a decent standard of living to give their children the care they know they need and deserve are not getting a decent price. 
   This Congress has to take action, and it has to take action this fall. We can get the emergency financial assistance out to people. Because of the way we are doing it, too much assistance will be going to some people who do not need it as much, and not enough will be going to many people who need it more. But it is a price crisis and we have to get the price up. We need to take the cap off the loan rate. We need to give the producer some leverage in the marketplace--with a farmer-owned reserve--and the ability to extend the payback period of the loan rate. We need to give our producers a fair shot. We need to get the prices up. Our farmers do not have cash-flow and they are going to be driven off the land. 
   I believe our country will deeply regret what is now happening in agriculture. It is a food scarcity issue. Who is going to farm the land? Are we going to have affordable food? Is it going to be food that is healthy and safe for our families? What about the environment? What about the whole idea of pattern of land ownership? 
   So much is at stake for America, but I do not think this crisis, of which the Presiding Officer is aware, is breaking through. No amount of self-reliance is going to help the farmers, given the prices they are getting for wheat, corn, and soybeans. Our livestock producers are faced with the most outrageous situation: they find themselves confronted with a few packers who control almost all of the market in terms of whom they can sell to. 
   Yesterday in Iowa we had an important hearing with Senator GRASSLEY and Senator HARKIN, and we had several hundred farmers there. I said that we should have a moratorium on all mergers and acquisitions and marketing agreements between agribusinesses with revenues over $50 million until the Congress reviews the antitrust laws. I am going to bring this moratorium to the floor, speaking about concentration of power. 
   Whatever happened to the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act and the work of Senator Kefauver? What does it mean when we have a few packers and they control almost all of the market? What does it 
   mean, with our livestock producers facing extinction and IBP and ConAgra and a lot of these large outfits making record profits? 
   Mr. President, this is an injustice. I am telling Democrats and Republicans, we have to make it a priority and we have to push through legislation over the next 2 months that will make a difference. A lot of these farmers are going to be gone if we don't. I speak today to give a brief report, although I am going to start coming to the floor and talking at great length about the number of farmers we are losing. 
   Tracy Beckman, who directs the Farm Services Administration, has figures on all our counties, on what an emergency situation this is, on what a crisis situation this is, and on what we can do. We can take the cap off the loan rate. We can rewrite the farm bill. Freedom to Farm has become the ``Freedom to Farm for No Money,'' the ``Freedom to Fail.'' We have to change the farm bill. We have to take some antitrust action. We have to be on the side of family farmers and producers. We have to make sure they get a fair price. We have to have a fair trade policy and we need to do it now. Speeches are not enough. 
   Rural American farmers, when you come here next week, turn up the heat. When you meet with Senators and Representatives, turn up the heat. Ultimately, it is going to take rural America raising heck in order to turn this situation around. 
   This August, for me, was the most difficult during my time in the Senate. It was the most emotional 3 weeks I ever spent with people in my State. I say to the Senator from California, who is a good friend, what happens at these farm gatherings is that people will say to you: Thanks for caring, it makes me feel good. And you reach out to shake their hand, and they are crying, just crying because they are going to lose everything. Their farm has been in the family for generations. It is where they work, it is where they live, and they are going to lose it all. The implement dealers, the bankers, the educators, the hospital people, and the health care people all say: Our rural communities are going to be ghost towns. 
   This is needless suffering. This does not have to be. This is not Adam  Smith's invisible hand. It is not some law of gravity. The only inevitability about what is happening to family farmers is the inevitability of a stacked deck. If we change policies and give them leverage so they can get a decent price in the marketplace, if we take on some of these conglomerates and put free enterprise in the food industry, and if we move forward on trade policy, we can make a huge difference. 
   This is an issue that goes to the heart and soul of what America is about. America, if you are listening to what we are saying in the Senate, this is all about the country, this is about food scarcity, this is about getting food at a price you can afford. It is about who is going to own the land. This is about whether or not we are going to have a rural America. This is about whether we are going to have a few conglomerates muscle their way to the dinner table and exercise their power over all phases of the industry--over the producers, over the consumers, over the taxpayers--or whether we are committed to a family farm structure in agriculture. 
   I come from a State, Minnesota, where family farmers are really important. They are so important to my State, but they are important to our country. I hope and pray over the next 2 months we will take action in Congress that will make a positive difference and will change this policy. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will not yield my place in the floor but---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague, I will be relatively brief. I will try to keep my remarks under an hour. 
   Did the Senator hear what I said? I was kidding. I said I would keep my remarks under an hour. Was that the Senator's approval? In 10 minutes I will be able to say what I need to say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague from Florida says I cannot do it in 10 minutes, but I am going to prove him wrong. 
   I do not know whether I can add that much to the remarks of Senator DURBIN. I have heard the Senator speak quite often. I actually think that was one of the strongest statements. Really. I wish I were not following him. 
   I say to all my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans alike, this will be a healthy vote because we ought to vote on how we view the National Endowment for the Arts. As a Senator from Minnesota, I think the most important thing we can do as Senators is to do our work every day in such a way that we can assure equal opportunity for every child. That is the way I approach this topic, I say to my friend from New Hampshire. 
   Senator DURBIN's point was well taken. What you want to do with children, starting at a very early age, is you want to take that spark of learning that all children have--they are so eager--and we need to ignite it. Different children are good at different things. Some are really good at academics, at least the way we define formal academics; some are athletes; some are musicians; some are artists. 
   The National Endowment for the Arts has done an absolutely fabulous job of funding some of the most wonderful community arts partnerships you ever want to see in the State of Minnesota, by the way, rural as well as urban. There is some great work with at-risk kids, some great work with all the children in Minnesota--white us, black us, brown us--all of us. It is united. It is wholesome. 
   There have been mistakes made. I agree with Senator DURBIN, Jane Alexander understood that and did a great deal to correct some of the mistakes that had been made. I do not think that has been properly acknowledged in this amendment that my colleagues bring to the floor. 
   Overall, it is so enriching and it is so exciting to see what is done with these community arts partnerships. 
   I did not get a chance to hear the remarks of my colleague from Missouri, so it would not be fair to him--he is not here--for me to even try to respond to what I think he may have said based upon what Senator DURBIN said. 
   I have had a chance to visit with the arts community. I have had a chance to see some of these projects take hold in Minnesota, in our neighborhoods, in our communities, urban, rural, and suburban, and I am especially focused on children and kids. 
   This does not have a thing to do with blue collar, white collar, high income, low income, middle income. This has really been some wonderful, nurturing, enriching work with children in Minnesota, some of whom have really come into their own as a result of the way in which the NEA grants and good art work and artists have reached them. Some of the things that these kids do, some of the ways in which they are creative and express themselves, some of the ways in which they, in turn, contribute to community, based upon the nurturing and the support from the NEA grants--it is just a marvelous thing to see. 
   Yes, mistakes have been made, but I call on Senators to be our own best selves. I do view this as a vote that has a whole lot to do with children, a whole lot to do with kids, a whole lot to do with the importance of community arts partnerships. I hope this amendment will be defeated with a resounding vote. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator from Delaware. Let me start out by saying I also appreciate the work of Senator ROTH as the chair of the Finance Committee. However, I am in profound disagreement with this reconciliation bill, this tax cut bill, that comes before the Senate--$792 billion in tax cuts, aggregate amount. 
   According to Citizens for Tax Justice, the top 1 percent of taxpayers would receive 42 percent of the benefits, while the bottom 60 percent would receive only 7.5 percent of the benefits. Regarding distributional effect, my colleague from Nebraska talked about a standard of fairness: 60 percent of all taxpayers would get an average tax cut of $65; the wealthiest 10 percent would get an average tax cut of $1,322; the wealthiest 1 percent would get an average tax cut of $5,281. 
   This tax cut bill that the Republicans bring to the floor of the Senate is ``Robin Hood in reverse'' economics. Even worse, I think it represents a politics of illusion. 
   Not that long ago others, I think former President Bush, talked about voodoo economics. He was referring to a set of proposals in the early 1980s that said we could have massive tax cuts, increase Pentagon spending, make the investments we needed to make as a nation, and continue to reduce the deficit. That is not what happened. 
   It is pretty simple, I say to the people in Minnesota, and to the the people in the Nation. We are in agreement, I hope, that of the $3 trillion of surplus, $2 trillion is Social Security. It is not touched. It is to make sure that system will be solvent. Of the other $1 trillion, three-quarters of it is in assumed cuts--assuming we have the economic growth in discretionary domestic spending. 
   With this proposal before the Senate that the Republicans bring to the floor of the Senate, not only do we have tax cuts and benefits to people in inverse relationship to need, a ``Robin Hood in reverse'' economics, but we have a politics and an economics of illusion. We are going to explode the debt. We are going to build the debt up again. In addition, we are not going to be making the investments that we in our speeches on the floor of the Senate say that we are for. 
   I heard my colleague from Delaware talk about health care, talk about education, talk about children, talk about tax cuts. One more time, to use the old Yiddish proverb: ``You can't dance at two weddings at the same time.'' 
   We are not going to be able to have this amount of tax cuts, $792 billion in tax cuts, and at the same time continue to pay down the debt and make the kind of investments we need to make. We are going to see, America, is cuts in Head Start, cuts in low-income energy assistance, cuts in community policing, cuts in environmental protection, cuts in veterans' health care, and cuts in Pell grant programs. We are not going to make any of the investments to which we say we are committed. 
   I think this tax cut legislation before the Senate is in many ways more serious than bad economics. And it is bad economics. It is bad economics because it will build up the debt rather than pay down the debt. It is bad economics because it could very well lead to higher interest rates. It is 
   bad economics because it is the last thing we ought to do in an expanding economy. In addition, it is bad economics because we are not going to be able to make the investments that my colleague from Delaware says we are committed to at the same time we are doing all these tax cuts. 
   It is also an illusion. It will put this country in a straitjacket where we are not going to be able to do one positive  thing to make sure we have equal opportunities for every child in this country. We are not going to increase Head Start benefits; we are going to cut them. We are not going to increase health care benefits for our citizens; we are going to cut them. We are not going to do anything about the acute shortage of affordable housing; we are going to cut housing programs. We are not going to get it right for veterans in health care; we are going to cut. We are not going to do anything about the shameful statistic of right now providing benefits for only 1 percent of the kids who would benefit from Early Head Start in our country; we are going to cut. 
   There is not one Senator who can come to the floor of the Senate and debate me on the argument I have just made. That is exactly what we are going to do. 
   This is also an ideological debate. If Members believe--and maybe this is what my colleagues now believe, let me now give credit--when it comes to the most pressing issues of people's lives in the United States of America, or Minnesota, that there is nothing that the government can or should do, if you don't think we should be making any of these kinds of investments in Pell grants, or affordable child care, or Head Start, or community policing, or veterans' health care, or health care, or affordable housing, then you would be for this conference report. What this will do is put this country in a straitjacket where any kind of an investment that any Senator will talk about to expand opportunities for our citizens will be, by definition, fiscally irresponsible because we won't have any of the revenue. 
   I conclude this way. The political argument behind these tax cuts is a pretty effective argument if you listen to it only up to a point. The argument is that we built up the surpluses--maybe, assuming the economy continues to perform. Let's give it back to the citizens; it is your money. People in Minnesota, it belongs to you. 
   I maintain, as a Senator from Minnesota, it doesn't belong to me; it doesn't belong to adults. It belongs to our children, and it belongs to our grandchildren. Whatever surplus there is ought to be used to pay down the debt. We put it on their shoulders. Whatever surplus there is ought to be used to make sure their Social Security and Medicare is there, just as it will be there for us. It ought to be used to make sure there are opportunities for children so that our children and our grandchildren have the same opportunities that we have had. 
   The Presiding Officer, the Senator from Ohio, is committed to early childhood development. The Presiding Officer, the Senator from Ohio, came to the Senate with a commitment to children. I know that. That is his passion, and he will make an enormous difference. I don't care whether he is Republican or not. I know what he cares about, and I know he is an effective Senator. 
   With this measure of tax cuts, if this legislation passes, we will not only not be making any additional investments in the way we should in early childhood development, such as Early Head Start or Head Start, much less what we really should be doing for child care, much less nutrition programs, much less affordable housing programs, we will be cutting those programs. 
   That is shameful. That is unconscionable. That is exactly what we will be doing. I say to the President of the United States of America, Mr. President, you should veto this legislation. Let's not get into Washington, DC, bargaining where we say $500 billion or $600 billion is a reasonable compromise. If that is what we do, we still will not be in a position to make any of these investments. We still will see cuts in discretionary spending to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars. 
   Let's pay down the debt. Let's make sure we make a commitment to Medicare and Social Security. More than anything else, I would rather see more of the emphasis on an investment in children. I believe when we pay down our debts, the most important debt we can pay off is the debt we would leave our children. 
   What we owe our children is to make sure that every child in the United States of America--regardless of color of skin, regardless urban or rural, regardless high income or low income or middle income--has the same chance to reach his and her full potential. These tax cuts will make that impossible. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation which will extend Medicare funding for Community Nursing Organization (CNO) demonstration projects within the Health Care Financing Administration. These CNO programs are intended to reduce the breakup in the delivery of health care services, to reduce the use of costly emergency care services, and to improve the continuity of home health and ambulatory care for Medicare beneficiaries. CNOs are responsible for providing home health care, case management, outpatient physical and speech therapy, ambulance services, prosthetic devices, durable medical equipment, and any optional HCFA-approved services appropriate to prevent the need to institutionalize Medicare enrollees. 
   In Minnesota, the Healthy Seniors Project provides seniors with information and services that have provided an extra level of health care and peace of mind. Through various seminars, programs, and other informational services, these seniors have received information on legal and financial matters specifically as they pertain to senior citizens, as well as information on the services available to help them function and remain in their homes. 
   These CNO projects are consistent with congressional efforts to introduce a wider range of managed care options to Medicare beneficiaries. Their authorization needs to be extended in order to ensure a fair testing of the CNO managed care concept. We need an extension of this demonstration project to continue to provide an important example of how coordinated care can provide additional benefits without increasing Medicare costs. In addition, we need to further evaluate the impact of the CNO contribution to Medicare patients and to assess their capacity for operating under a fixed budget. Finally, this extension will not increase Medicare expenditures. In fact, CNOs actually save Medicare dollars by providing better and more accessible health care in homes and community settings, rather than unnecessary hospitalizations and nursing home admissions. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support these important cost-saving demonstration projects for another three years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution that I will soon send to the desk to proclaim September, 1999, as ``National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month'', and to recognize the Administration, government agencies, and the many groups supporting this effort highlighting the critical role of business and workplace programs in facilitating the recovery efforts of those with this disease. 
   Alcoholism and drug addition are painful, private struggles with staggering public costs. A recent study prepared by The Lewin Group for the national Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, estimated the total economic cost of alcohol and drug abuse to be approximately $246 billion for 1992. Of this cost, an estimate $98 billion was due to drug addition to illicit drugs and other drugs taken for non-medical purposes. This estimate includes additional treatment and prevention costs, as well as costs associated with related illnesses, reduced job productivity or lost earnings, and other costs to society such as crime and social welfare programs. 
   People who have the disease of addiction can be found throughout our society. According to he 1997 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse published by SAMHSA, nearly 73 percent of all individuals addicted to drugs in the United States are employed. This number represents 6.7 million full-time workers and 1.6 million part-time workers. In addition to the health problems associated with this disease, there are other serious consequences affecting the workplace, such as lost productivity; high employee turnover; low employee morale; mistakes; accidents; and increased worker's compensation insurance and health insurance premiums--all results of untreated addiction problems. Whether you are a corporate CEO or a small business owner, there are simple, effective steps that can be taken--including providing insurance coverage for this disease, ready access to treatment, and workplace policies that support treatment--to reduce these human and economic costs. 
   Addiction to alcohol an drug is a disease that affects the brain, the body, and the spirit. We must provide adequate opportunities for the treatment of addiction in order to help those who are suffering and to prevent the health and social problems that it causes, and we know that the costs to do so are very low. A 1999 study by the Rand Corporation found that the cost to managed care health plans is now only about $5 per person per year for unlimited substance abuse treatment benefits to employees of big companies. A 1997 
   Milliman and Robertson study found that complete substance abuse treatment parity would increase per capita health insurance premiums by only one half of one percent, or less than $1 per member per month--without even considering any of the obvious savings that will result from treatment. Several studies have shown that for every $1 spent on treatment, more than $7 is saved in other health care expenses. These savings are in addition to the financial and other benefits of increased productivity, as well as participation in family and community life. Providing treatment for addiction also saves millions of dollars in the criminal justice system. But for treatment to be effective and helpful throughout our society all systems of  care--including private insurance plans--must share this responsibility. 
   In observance of Recovery Month, the Secretary of Health and Human Services has recognized that the effort business invests in substance abuse treatment will be rewarded by raising productivity, quality, and employee morale, and lowering health care costs associated with substance abuse. Moreover, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy has recognized that providing effective drug treatment to those in need is critical to breaking the cycle of drug addiction and to helping those who are addicted become productive members of society. The role of the workplace in overcoming the problem of substance abuse among Americans is also recognized by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Small Business Administration, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Agency, the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of American, the National Coalition on Alcohol and Other Drug Issues, the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors, and the National Substance Abuse Coalition. 
   It has been shown that some forms of addiction have a genetic basis, and yet we still try to deny the serious medical nature of this disease. We think of those with this disease as somehow different from us. We forget that someone who has a problem with drugs or alcohol can look just like the person we see in the mirror, or the person who is sitting next to us on the subway or at work. We know from the outstanding research conducted at NIH, through the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, that treatment for drug and alcohol addiction can be effective. Through this treatment, there are countless numbers of individuals who are living proof that people of all races, genders, and ages recover every day from the disease of alcohol and drug addiction, and now make positive contributions to their families, workplaces, communities, state, and nation. 
   I urge the Senate to adopt this resolution designating the month of September, 1999, as Recovery Month, and to take part in the many local and national activities and events recognizing this effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, to add to what my colleague said from the same letter:  
   We have deep concerns about pitting region versus region in agricultural policy, especially dairy policy. We strongly encourage a policy that will benefit all dairy producers nationally.  
   I don't have time to engage in a long discussion by way of policy. There is just no time for doing that. Let me make an appeal to my colleagues. In Minnesota, we have 8,700 dairy farmers. We rank fifth in the Nation's milk production. It is $1.2 billion for our farmers. We are losing three family farmers a day. 
   What the Secretary of Agriculture is now trying to do is change the milk marketing order system, in the words of the Farmers Union, that will benefit dairy producers nationally, to try to bring about some fairness. Now what we have is an effort on the part of some of my colleagues to basically block the Secretary of Agriculture from implementing this reform. 
   I say to every single colleague, Democrat and Republican alike, I don't have time to argue all of the policy implications, but I make an appeal as a Senator from Minnesota to not vote for cloture. I make an appeal as a Senator from Minnesota to support the kinds of changes that the Secretary of Agriculture is trying to make that will bring about some fairness and won't pit region against region and will give dairy farmers in our country, family farmers, a chance to make it. 
   This is an incredibly important question for my State of Minnesota. Other Senators would argue the same way if it were their State. I hope they will vote against cloture, and I appeal to them to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is not all that I hoped for for farmers in Minnesota, but I thank Senator CONRAD and Senator GRASSLEY for this compromise effort. 
   I think we are doing more for dairy. I think we are doing more for livestock producers. I think we are doing much more for disaster relief, which is terribly important to farmers in my State and farmers all across the Nation. 
   I hope that we get a very strong vote. I think at this point in time in the week this is the very best we can do. I am pleased to support this effort. 
   Mr. CONRAD addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, actually, I do not know whether it is a jump ball. I will be pleased to go in order, if we could do it that way. I see the Senator from Kansas was ready to speak, and the Senator from North Dakota. Can we alternate from side to side? 
   I ask unanimous consent to follow the Senator from Kansas. I didn't mean to beat him to the punch. I am anxious to debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will listen to my colleague and then ask unanimous consent I be able to follow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. May I clarify this? I had the floor. I was trying to be accommodating. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I simply said, if the Senator felt I jumped 
   in, beat him  to the punch, I would be pleased to follow the Senator from Kansas. I am ready to yield, or I will keep the floor. Shall we do that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a second? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This is the Senator's life. I don't agree with him, but he must lay out his case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, first of all, I want to say to my colleague from Kansas that he ended up talking about the emergency bill that is before us. But a good part of his remarks were devoted to the farm bill, what I call the ``freedom to fail'' bill. I want to say to my colleague from Kansas that he kept talking about the failed policy of the past. I think he ought to focus on the failed policy of the present. The failed policy of the present is the ``freedom to fail'' bill. 
   My colleagues also talked about the painful truth. The painful truth in the State of Minnesota is that we are going to lose yet thousands more of farmers on the present course. We have to change the course. That is the painful truth. 
   I remember that maybe a year and a half ago when I went to a gathering in Crookston, MN in northwest Minnesota, there was a sign outside that said, ``Farm Crisis Meeting.'' I thought: My God, are we going back to the mid-1980s? But it is not only northwest Minnesota. 
   I was in Roseau County two weekends ago. It is pretty incredible. It is the low prices. It is also the weather. The county typically plants about 500,000 acres of wheat. This year only 10 percent--50,000 acres--was planted. It appears that a mere 10 percent of the 50,000 acres will produce a crop. 
   It is northwest Minnesota with the low price. It is the weather. It is the scab disease, and now the price crisis affects all of Greater Minnesota. 
   When my colleague talks about $136 million spent in Minnesota with the AMTA payments, it reminds me of what farmers always say, not about the smaller banks but about the big branch banks: They are always there with the umbrella when there is sunshine outside, but whenever it is raining they take the umbrella away. 
   Of course, the payments were up when we were doing well. But the whole point of what we had in our farm bill before ``freedom to fail'' was we had some countercyclical measures to make sure there was some price stability. That is the point. 
   The point is that when part of our export market collapses, and when family farmers can't make a go of it, or when you continue to have to deal with conglomerates that control almost all phases of the food industry--when I hear my good friend from Kansas talking about laws of supply and demand, I smile. Family farmers in Minnesota want to know: Where is Adam Smith's invisible hand? Family farmers in the Midwest want to know, where is the competition? Because when they look to whom they buy from, and when they look to whom they sell, they are faced with a few large conglomerates that dominate the market. 
   I say to my good friend from Iowa that in Fayette County--I guess there is a town of Fayette also in northeast Iowa--on Sunday I went to a pig roast. This farmer said: I am out of business. This is the last pig. This is it for me. 
   Our pork producers are facing extinction, and the packers are in hog heaven. 
   We have a frightening concentration of power. 
   All of my colleagues who are strong free enterprise men and women, all my colleagues who talk about the importance of the market and competition, ought to look at what my friend from Kansas talks about as a painful truth, which is we don't have Adam Smith's invisible hand and law of supply and demand. Everywhere we look in this industry, you have conglomerates that have muscled their way to the dinner table, exercising their raw political and economic power over our producers, over consumers, and I also argue over taxpayers. 
   In all due respect, when my friend from Kansas says we ought to look at the failed policies of the past, I want to say that we ought to look at the failed policy of the present. 
   My colleagues on the other side of the aisle can talk about anything they want to talk about. All of it is relatively 
   important. Crop insurance is important. We can do better. We can do better in a lot of different areas. But let's not talk about failed policies of the past. Let's talk about the failed policy of the present because that is what farmers are dealing with. Family farmers are going under, and time is not neutral. 
   I want to shout it from the mountain top of the Senate in response to the remarks of my good friend and colleague from Kansas. The most important thing that we can do is rewrite this farm bill. The most important thing we can do is make the kind of structural changes we need to make so that family farmers can get a fair shake because right now what we did in that ``freedom to fail'' bill is take away any opportunity for farmers to have any kind of leverage and bargaining in the marketplace with these large grain companies. And, in addition, we took away any kind of safety net. 
   So when part of the export market isn't there, although we are doing fine and the exporters are doing well, our family farmers aren't.  
   The point is that for those farmers who do not have huge reserves for capital and aren't the conglomerates, they go under. 
   Senators and United States of America, this debate about this emergency package--and more importantly the debate that is going to take place this fall about how we write a farm bill--is a debate that is as important as we can have for anyone who values the family farm structure of agriculture because we will lose it all if we don't change this course of policy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me respond to my friend from Iowa. First, I agree it is ironic to hear some of our colleagues try to boast about direct payments to farmers when they talk about the ``freedom to fail'' bill. By definition, if we are spending $17 billion a year for payments to farmers, the market is not doing a very good job. 
   Second, let me say to my colleague from Iowa, when I hear my good friend from Kansas talk about the law of supply and demand, I smile because the family farmers throughout the country want to know where is Adam Smith's invisible hand? Where is the competition? It misses the very essence of our debate. Conglomerates basically control almost all phases of the food industry, whether it is from whom the farmers buy or to whom they sell. 
   There are two questions: No. 1, how can we give family farmers some kind of leverage in the marketplace? We tried to do that in some of our past farm bills through the loan rate, and also a safety net, to try and deal with farmers when prices plummeted. Second is the compelling case for antitrust action. 
   Let me say we are going to pass a bill that will provide some assistance to farmers, but there are two questions: What kind of assistance? I will analyze that in a moment. The challenge before the Senate is the kind of assistance. I think there are pretty huge differences. 
   In our bill, the Democrats bill, we have about $2 billion in assistance for disaster relief. In case anybody hasn't noticed, we have drought in the country. We have people who are devastated, people who cannot grow anything. We have some disaster relief, $2 billion. I don't think our colleagues on the other side have anything in that bill, in which case I say to colleagues when they vote on these amendments, it would seem to me Members would be hard pressed to vote against an amendment purporting to provide emergency disaster relief that doesn't take into account the weather. Not only are my colleagues not taking into account the failed policy of the present, they are not taking into account the drought. 
   My second point: I far prefer, to the extent we can, to make sure the assistance gets to those farmers who need it the most. The AMTA payments tend to go to the larger producers and tend to go to land owners, even if they are not producers. It is quite different than LDP. I would like the LDP targeted, as targeted as possible. 
   There are some differences between these two proposals. The Republican plan is similar to their tax cut plan. They parcel out benefits in inverse relationship to need. What farmers are saying to me in Minnesota or when I was in Iowa this past weekend: Look, we want to get the price. We want to deal with the price crisis. We want to have a future. 
   If you are going to provide some assistance, I didn't hear farmers talking about AMTA payments because they know the great share of the benefits will go to those who need it the least. 
   We have some major differences. We take into account the drought--small thing, the drought. We make sure there is some direct assistance to people who are confronted with the drought. Our colleagues on the other side don't have such assistance. 
   In addition, we try to target to production as opposed to AMTA payments, which is all a part of the ``freedom to fail'' bill. It was transition for people to go out. AMTA payments were great, as my colleague from Kansas points out, when prices were up. Everybody loved it. The problem is the ``freedom to fail'' bill, which was passed, did not take into account what would happen to family farmers when the markets collapsed, the prices were low, and there was no safety net, no bargaining power and no way that family farmers would be able to cash flow and make a living. There is no future for family farmers in the State of Minnesota with this failed farm policy. 
   I say to my colleagues, we have some votes this afternoon on the whole question of some emergency assistance. That is step one. 
   I believe for reasons I have explained that our proposal makes much more sense in terms of getting some help to people. If we are going to call it emergency assistance--and that is what it is--then we better get some assistance to people who are devastated because of the drought. We better have disaster relief in a bill which purports to be an emergency assistance package. 
   Second, we ought to try and make sure the benefits go to the people who need it the most. 
   Finally, I say to my friends on the other side, I don't believe anybody should have to stand up and say the Freedom to Farm bill was a ``freedom to fail.'' I don't care whether people have to admit to a past mistake. I don't want anybody to believe they have to admit to a past mistake. But we better change the policy. However we do it, whatever Senators want to say, my focus is on the failed policy--not of the past but of the failed policy of the present. My focus is on this ``freedom to fail'' bill. 
   We have to take the cap off the loan rate, raise the loan rate. We have to get a decent price. We have to target it and have a much tougher and fair trade policy. We have to make sure we have some conservation practices. We have to make sure we don't have people planting fence row to fence row. We have to make sure we take antitrust action seriously. Teddy Roosevelt was for antitrust action a long time ago. 
   It seems to me that the United States Senate can go on record to support antitrust action. It seems to me we can be on the side of family farmers. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to speak for a brief period of time in morning business. I see the Senator from Mississippi is coming into the Chamber. I know we are ready to start with the Ag appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to very briefly speak to an issue that actually might be one we will debate as we go through this Ag appropriations bill since part of what we deal with within the Department of Agriculture is food assistance programs such as the Women, Infants, and Children Program and the Food Stamp Program. 
   We have heard a great deal from the White House and from some Members of Congress about the success of the welfare bill. On Sunday, the White House released data on the number of women who were on welfare and are now working. There will be a gathering in Chicago tomorrow, I believe, where the President will be talking about welfare to work and talking about the success of this. 
   As a Senator, I want to raise a couple of questions that I think are important and to focus on some unpleasant facts that we should be willing to face up to. 
   First of all, I point out for my colleagues the fact that the welfare rolls are down 40 percent begs the question of whether or not we have reduced poverty. The fact of the matter is, the welfare rolls are down 40 percent, but poverty is barely down. The goal was not to reduce the welfare rolls; the goal everybody talked about was to move families from poverty to economic independence. That is really what the goal was all about. The issue has never been welfare; the issue has been poverty. 
   The question is, How do you reduce the poverty? I do not quite understand how the White House or any Democrat or any Republican can proclaim this a success when we have done so little to reduce poverty in our country, especially poverty of 
   children. There are about 14 million people who are poor in the country. 
   My second point is, when the President and the White House talk about the number of mothers who are now working, that begs the question as to what kind of jobs and what kind of wages. What we should be talking about are family-wage or living-wage jobs. The evidence we have right now is that most of the mothers who are working are working in jobs with wages somewhere between about $5.50 and $7 an hour, which is barely above minimum wage but does not enable these families to escape poverty. 
   My third point is, Families USA just came out with a study that points out there are about 675,000 low-income citizens who have now been cut off medical assistance because of the welfare bill. There are about 675,000 low-income citizens who no longer are receiving any medical assistance. 
   My final point is, there was a Wall Street Journal piece today about the dramatic, precipitous decline of participation in the Food Stamp Program. I argue especially the decline of participation among children which cannot be explained alone by the state of the economy, especially with the dramatic increase in the use of food shelf service. 
   What is going on? Do we have a situation now where the AFDC structure is no longer there, and when people come in, no one tells them about the fact they and their families are eligible for food stamps--that is happening--or they are not told they are eligible for medical assistance--that is happening--all of which leads me to two final things today as we move into this debate about the Agriculture appropriations bill. 
   First, I lost by one vote on a welfare tracking amendment, and then the Senate adopted it on the Treasury-Postal bill. It is now in conference committee. The amendment called upon the States, when they apply for the $1 billion bonus money, to present to Health and Human Services the data on what kind of jobs women have, whether or not they and their children are participating in food stamps and do the families have medical assistance, so we can find out if families are better off or worse off. That is now in conference. If that gets taken out of conference committee--amendments are adopted in the Senate and taken out in conference committee--I am going to bring that amendment back up on this bill, and we are going to have a vote because sometimes we do not know what we do not want to know, and sometimes we only know what we want to know. 
   That is the way it is with the White House about this welfare bill. We ought to be engaged in an honest policy evaluation to find out what is happening in the country. We are talking about poor women and poor children, and we ought to know whether they are better off or whether they are worse off. There is some disturbing evidence that many of these families might, in fact, be worse off. It is a little early and premature for the White House to be declaring this a success or for any Senator or Representative, Democrat or Republican, to be declaring it a success. 
   My final point is, since we are dealing with an Ag appropriations bill--and I think I will have an amendment to this effect--we need to call on USDA, or someone, to do a study and to report  back to the Senate and to the Congress in a relatively brief period of time, as soon as possible, what is happening with the Food Stamp Program in this country. We need to know. 
   There was a dramatic piece in the Washington Post about 2 weeks ago. I could hardly bear to read it. It was the front page of the B section. It was a picture of an 8-year-old child, a little boy. The whole piece was devoted to hungry children in the District of Columbia. 
   The gist of the article was that in August--now--the summer schools are going to shut down and the breakfasts will not be there, the School Lunch Program will not be there, and there is no food at home. 
   In this particular family, this grandmother with four children does not have enough money to feed her children. What I want to know is, whatever happened to the Food Stamp Program? That has been our safety net program. What is going on when we have a dramatic rise in the use of food shelves and food pantries in this country? The Catholic Church network study pointed this out just last month. 
   What is going on when 675,000 low-income people are removed from medical assistance as a result of the welfare bill? What is going on when the vast majority of these women are working at jobs that still do not get them and their families out of poverty? What is going on when we are unwilling to do an honest policy evaluation of this legislation, because very soon in many States there will be a drop-dead date certain, and all families, all women, and all children will be cut off from any welfare assistance at all. Before that happens, we need to know what is happening with this legislation. 
   I have come to the floor of the Senate today to basically challenge my colleagues to make sure this stays in the conference committee and to announce I will be out here on the 
   floor with an amendment if it gets eliminated from the conference committee, and to announce we ought to also have a study of the Food Stamp Program to find out why it is not reaching children and families who need the help, and also to directly challenge the White House and the President. It is not enough to say we have cut the rolls by 40 percent. The question is, Have we reduced the poverty by 40 percent? We have not. 
   It is not enough to say these mothers are now working. The question is, Are they working jobs that will enable them and their children to no longer be poor in our country? That is the goal which I do not believe has been met. 
   We are talking about the lives of poor women and poor children. They deserve to be on our radar screen. They deserve an honest, rigorous policy evaluation so that we, as decisionmakers, know whether or not, by our actions, we are helping these women and children or whether or not we are hurting these women and children. We ought to have the courage to step up to the plate. 
   I think we are about ready to start on the Ag appropriations bill. I will yield the floor. I look forward to this debate. I came down here on the floor to debate this bill. This is the crisis that is staring my State of Minnesota in the face. I am going to leave it up to Senator HARKIN or Senator DASCHLE to start out debate on our side, but I am very anxious to be in this debate and very anxious to speak for farmers and for agriculture. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I have a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I actually have three quick questions. First of all, dealing with the urgency of now, is it not true that the Senator from Iowa and other Democrat Senators have tried to pass an emergency assistance package and we have been working on this for some time? Would the Senator from Iowa give a little bit of a historical background? I think farmers are wondering how much more has to happen to them before there is some assistance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I might ask my colleague from Iowa a second question to be clear about what is at stake--we will all have a chance to speak later. My colleague from Iowa says that what the Senator from Mississippi introduces is an emergency assistance package for farmers to try to get some income out there to families, and my colleague says it does about half the job. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Where are the gaps? In other words, I think people assume, if we pass something that we say is going to enable them to continue to stay on the farm until we deal with the structural problems, it is going to help them. Again, could the Senator emphasize the difference? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, every time I'm home, farmers are saying to me: We appreciate some assistance so we can live to be able to farm another day, but we want to know whether we or our children or grandchildren will have any future? How are you going to deal with the price crisis? What are you going to do to change the direction that this freedom to farm bill has taken us? 
   Farmers focus on the structural issues. They want Members to write a new farm bill. They don't want a bail out every year. They want to be able to get a decent price in the marketplace. They want a fair shake. That is all they want. 
   I ask my colleague from Iowa, also my friend from North Dakota, what should we be focusing on here in the U.S. Senate beyond this emergency assistance package to make sure that farmers can get a decent price, and that family farmers can be able to make a living and their children can farm and our rural communities can flourish? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will say to my colleagues--and I know they are waiting to speak, and I will soon be done after just a final question--I apologize you have to wait. 
   I especially say that to Senator GRASSLEY since he was gracious enough, when I was in Iowa, to tell me if I needed a place to stay, I could stay at his farm. I much appreciated it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I know. I am going to do it next time for sure. 
   Let me ask one more question, and before I do, I ask unanimous consent--if tomorrow morning we are going to be in debate as well--that I could have 15 minutes to speak on this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I was asking whether or not tomorrow morning we are also going to be in debate on this and that I could have 15 minutes to speak on it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990802</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. OK. Let me ask my colleague: My friend from North Dakota made the distinction between agriculture and family farmers; his passion is for the producers, the family farmers. Beyond this assistance bill, we would like to see something that would help people continue to survive. In Minnesota, on August 21, we are going to have a Rural Crisis Unity Day with a whole congressional delegation there to meet with the farmers and business people and all, really, of rural Minnesota. Does he think it would be helpful for people to say: We need you to do something about the price crisis; we need you to do something to make sure we get a fair shake; we need you to make sure it is not just for Cargill, it is for family farmers; it is not just for IBP or the packers--it is not for the packers, it is for the producers? Do you think this is the kind of thing we are going to need to see in many of our agricultural States over the next several months to come, to put the pressure on the House and Senate to pass a bill for family farmers as opposed to these big conglomerates? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I call up my motion to recommit on veterans' health care. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I introduce this motion with Senator JOHNSON, Senator DASCHLE, and Senator HARKIN. This motion calls for $3 billion added to veterans' health care. That is consistent with what the Veterans' Affairs Committee has said we need to do. That is consistent with the veterans independent budget. That is consistent with the report we did last week on the gaps in veterans' health care, and every single Senator voted on the budget resolution for a $3 billion increase for veterans' health care. That is the least we should do to make sure there is high-quality health care for veterans in our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I move to waive the Budget Act, and I ask for the yeas and nays on the motion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is all about whether or not we support children in our country. It is a terribly important program. We will vote it up or down on a voice vote. On the ag appropriations bill we will have a recorded vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I understand I have 10 minutes. I will try to cut that in half in the interest of moving this along. 
   I cannot believe the amendment that is before this body. I am speaking about the Gramm amendment. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities does very good work, as does Citizens for Tax Justice. Let's take the 10-percent tax rate cut across the board: this is what they say. 60 percent of the benefits of this tax cut will go to 10 percent of the taxpayers with the highest income. The bottom 60 percent of all taxpayers will share just over 9 percent of the total benefits under this plan. The average tax cut under the Gramm amendment, for the lowest income, 60 percent of all taxpayers, those with incomes below $38,000, will be about $99. 
   By contrast, those in the top 10 percent will enjoy an average tax cut of about $4,000. Tax cuts for the 1 percent highest income, those making more than $300,000 a year, will average $20,000 a year. I am not even talking about estate and capital gains tax cuts, which make the Gramm amendment even more regressive. 
   To pick up on the comments of my colleague from South Carolina, the original House Ways and Means Committee proposal in the second 10 years would explode the debt, costing $2.8 trillion. This may be only $2 trillion. But even here, $2 trillion is a lot of money. From 2010 to 2019, this tax cut package in the Gramm amendment will probably cost about $2 trillion. That is what it will cost us. 
   Mr. President, Kevin Phillips, in some commentary the other day on ``Morning Edition,'' talked about the House proposal. I think what he said applies to this Gramm amendment:  
   The mind-boggling 10-year cuts passed late last week by the House of Representatives ..... deserve a new term: [Not pie in the sky but] pie in the stratosphere.  
   That is what this Gramm amendment is: pie in the stratosphere. 
   Sometimes my colleagues on the other side of the aisle--and I say this with a twinkle in my eye, it is never hatred; we always enjoy our work--they will accuse some of us of class warfare. I say to my colleague from Texas, this is class warfare. This is class warfare: 60 percent of the benefits go to the top 10 percent of all taxpayers. The bottom 60 percent gets 9 percent. The average tax cut for most of the people in my State of Minnesota is about $99. But if you make over $300,000 a year, there will be an average  tax cut of $20,000 a year. I say to my colleague from Texas, this is class warfare. That is what his amendment is. 
   In some ways, I am glad to fight this war because the vast majority of people in this country, when they realize who gets the benefits and who does not, when they realize what this amendment does in the second 10 years, here is what they are going to say. They are going to say: We heard enough about how this surplus belongs to us. We are responsible adults. We are responsible parents and grandparents, and we believe that whatever the performance of our economy--and I hope it will be good; we do not know, this is all assumed--and whatever we have by way of surplus, here is what we believe: We believe that it does not belong to us; it belongs to our children and our grandchildren. 
   That means we pay off some of the debt we put on their shoulders, and that means we also make sure that Medicare and Social Security are there for them. It also means our children and our grandchildren, regardless of whether they are rich or poor, have opportunities; that there is equal opportunity for every child. That is what the American people believe. That is what Minnesotans believe. 
   I love this Gramm amendment. I love it because I think it presents in the clearest possible way to people in Minnesota and people in the country what we are about, whose side we are on. It is a class warfare amendment, and it should be trounced in a vote. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the privilege of the floor be granted to David Doleski, a fellow in my office. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me say to my colleague from Delaware, he said about four or five times, ``in the long term.'' That is not good enough. The long term is not good enough. When I am in Minnesota, and I travel the State, no matter where I go, in town meetings, there is a huge turnout of older citizens, of senior citizens. In my State of Minnesota there are probably about 800,000 Medicare recipients, and only 35 percent have any kind of coverage at all for prescription drugs --35 percent. Two-thirds of elderly Minnesotans have no coverage; two-thirds in Minnesota have no coverage at all. It is not uncommon to meet someone who is spending $300 a month on a $1,000 monthly income. Mr. President, $300 a month on a $1,000 monthly income. 
   It is also not uncommon to meet with people who will tell you--actually not in a public meeting. People are a little embarrassed to do it. But if you get to meet with people individually--they cut their pills in half. The problem is it doesn't give them half the benefit. Actually, it can be quite dangerous. Or if they don't cut their pills in half, there are people who just do not take them so they can put food on the table, or if they go out and buy what they need, then they do not put food on the table. I hear my colleagues on the other side saying ``in the long run.'' In the long run? What are we waiting for? What are we waiting for? 
   You are talking about tax cuts. I was on the floor earlier when we were discussing the Gramm amendment, which I assume will be voted down. But take that one amendment: 60 percent of the benefit goes to the top 10 percent. The average tax cut for the lowest income earners, the lowest 60 percent, earning below $38,000, would be $99. But if you have an income of over $300,000, it is 
   a $20,000 tax cut. You are talking about $700 billion, $800 billion of tax cuts in the Republican proposal, crowding out any kind of investment like this; for example, affordable prescription drug costs for the elderly. 
   We have another amendment, the Gramm amendment, which is class warfare. That is what it is. The people in Minnesota are scratching their heads saying: We would love to get some relief, us hard-pressed working people, but that is not what the Republican plan is. 
   Now we have the Kennedy amendment on the floor, which I fully support, that speaks directly to the concerns and circumstances of older Americans. In my State of Minnesota, this is critically important. Only one-third of senior citizens have any prescription drug coverage at all. This is a burdensome cost. This is a health care issue. This is a public health issue. 
   What made Medicare important--it was a huge step forward in 1965--is that it was a universal coverage program. When we extend prescription drug benefits to Medicare, we make it a universal care program. For my father and my mother, neither of whom are alive today, both of whom had Parkinson's disease, without Medicare they would have gone under. They never made any money. The kind of drugs they needed, and seniors need, for Parkinson's disease--I can talk about other diseases--they cannot afford them. 
   I hear my good friend from Delaware say ``in the long run.'' The long run is too long. We are confronted with the urgency of now. This is a clear choice. You are either for the tax cuts, three-martini lunches, egregious breaks for large corporations, the vast amount of the money going to the highest income citizens, exploding the debt over the next 10 years and then the next 10 years it gets worse; or why don't we be fiscally responsible? Why don't we pay the debt down, make sure we support Social Security and Medicare, investment in our children, and when we support Medicare, the best thing we could  do would be to make sure there is prescription drug coverage for elderly Americans. 
   I hope there will be 99 or 100 votes for this amendment. There should be. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator from Delaware. 
   Mr. President, I was listening to my colleague, Senator BREAUX from Louisiana, and I want to respond to what he said because he said it--like he says everything--very well, regarding the whole question of reality tests and good politics versus good policy. 
   I speak against this amendment, not for the sake of good politics but for the sake of good policy. I speak against this amendment understanding that reality test, as I think about the lives of people in our country. I want to say one more time on the floor of the Senate--and I have said it a couple of times--that I do not understand this kind of bidding war on tax cuts. I understand very targeted tax cuts to those citizens who need it the most. I understand very targeted tax cuts that speak to the concerns and circumstances of hard-pressed working families. But I think the vast majority of people in the United States of America--and I think this is the meaning of the poll about tax cuts--are saying this: You all are sort of--I don't know what the word is--trying to pander to us and you have this argument that you have made for years--I am not saying all colleagues for this amendment have made this argument for years, but it goes something such as this: This money belongs to the people, and we are going to give it back to you, whatever there is in surpluses, which, of course, is all based upon assumptions we make. And, hopefully, these assumptions will be borne out about economic performance. 
   I really think the vast majority of people in Minnesota and the vast majority of people in the country are saying this belongs not to us but to our children and grandchildren, and whatever you have by way of surpluses--now we are focusing on the non-Social Security surplus--put it into reducing the debt to get the debt off the backs of our children. Make sure there will be Social Security and Medicare for our children and our grandchildren as it has been there for us; and, finally, make sure that our children and grandchildren are going to have the same opportunities we have. 
   We can't do that. I came to the floor the other day and said about my own party's proposal at $300 billion--$200 billion less than $500 billion--that we can't do all of that and have these tax cuts to the tune of $500 billion at the same time. It doesn't add up. 
   To use the old Yiddish proverb, ``You can't dance at two weddings at the same time.'' 
   If you look at the non-Social Security surplus, three-quarters of it is based upon cuts or the caps in domestic spending. 
   We say we are concerned about veterans' health care, we want to have community policing, we want to have environmental cleanup, we certainly want to make sure we deal with what is becoming a crisis of affordable housing, and then all of us are forever and ever and ever talking about children and education. We talk about all those people who do not have any health insurance. We talk about prescription drug benefits for the elderly. How are we going to do all of that at the same time that we are going to have $500 billion of tax cuts? We are not. 
   With the Democratic proposal the other day on the floor with $300 billion of tax cuts, we were still several hundred billion dollars under where the caps take us. In other words, we were several hundred billion dollars--I think close to $300 billion--short of making up the cuts in discretionary spending. With the $500 billion it is worse. 
   I want to know where the give is going to be. 
   In all due respect, as I look at the pattern of our powerlessness in America today, it is a very distorted pattern of power. I know the Pentagon will get its resources. I know we will make sure that we invest in transportation. 
   I can just imagine with the squeeze on--that is exactly what you are going to have, deep cuts in discretionary spending for a decade, and then God knows where this takes us in the next decade--what is going to be cut. 
   We are going to go from 1 percent Head Start funding--pre-3-year-olds, Early Head Start funding--to less than 1 percent. We are going to go from 40 percent, or a little over 40-percent funding for Head Start, ages 2 to 5, to less than 40 percent. We are going to go from barely covering 20 percent of affordable child care needs for low-income families--much less moderate income and much less working families--to less than 20 percent. 
   That is the problem with this amendment. 
   My colleague from Louisiana said it is a compromise. It is a reality test. It is a compromise between the political center of gravity of where Republicans are and where Democrats are, but it is not based upon where I think the political center of gravity is in the country. I know that sounds presumptuous. Maybe it even sounds arrogant. I swear that I don't mean it to be. But I really believe the vast majority of people in our 
   country are for tax cuts that are very targeted, that speak to the concerns and circumstances of really hard-pressed families, and they want to see the rest of us deal with Medicare. They want to make sure we have Social Security, and people want to see some investment in our children. They want to see opportunities for children in this country. We can't do it with this. 
   We have several hundred billion dollars more--well over $300 billion more--of cuts in discretionary spending if we go for their $500 billion package. Where are we going to cut? You mean to tell  me that now we are putting a straitjacket on ourselves and boxing ourselves in such a way that we are not even going to be able to make any of these kinds of investments in health, skills, intellect, and character of our children? We are not going to be able to it. 
   I don't see this as being any kind of reality test amendment. I think this is not at all based upon where most people in the country are. I don't think it is based upon what we have to do as a nation. 
   I think in the next century we have to grow together. I think in the next century, by the year 2030 or 2040 or 2050, we have to make sure the next century belongs to our children and our grandchildren. We have to make sure they get the best education. We have to make sure they have the best skill development. We have to make sure they are healthy. We have to make sure they are productive. We have to make sure there is less violence in their lives; that they grow up to be independent, resourceful, self-reliant, morally responsible and democratic citizens. That is what we ought to be doing with whatever kind of surplus we have. 
   We certainly shouldn't be supporting a proposal with $500 billion of tax cuts that will crowd out all of that investment, especially when it comes to the most vulnerable citizens in our country. 
   I hope this amendment will be voted down. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to speak briefly about my support for Senator BINGAMAN's amendment, which urges restoration of a portion of the Republican cuts in several key education programs. There is nothing more important to me than doing the absolute best I can--and encouraging  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the same--to push, push as hard as we possibly can to re-order our spending priorities so that they better reflect the real concerns and circumstances of the lives of those whom we represent who are trying to raise and educate their kids, or send them to college. 
   Our goal should to be approve a tax plan that will send a clear, unmistakable message that this Congress cares about education, that this Congress wants to ensure sure that children come to school prepared to learn and are given every possible opportunity to grow, to succeed, to excel. It is time to end photo op politics. It is easy for all of us to get our pictures taken with young children at schools, but the question is, have we done enough? The answer: we have not. I believe my colleagues' proposal, modest as it is, moves us in the right direction. I know there are technical reasons why we couldn't actually directly transfer funding for this year in the amendment--an approach which I wanted to take--but at least this amendment sends the right signal regarding a re-ordering of our priorities. 
   I consider this a matter of national security issue, a national priority. Making sure that the young are ready to learn is good for our democracy, or economy, and our national defense. it is our responsibility to make sure that teachers are qualified and equipped with the right tools, and that the opportunities for learning will be there in the afternoons long after the last class has been dismissed. I cannot say forcefully enough: this must be accomplished not at the expense or detriment of our children but to their collective advantage. 
   I'm behind the proposal to shift these excessive tax breaks to a plan that would fully fund the initiative to hire 100,000 qualified teachers to reduce class sizes. It's no mystery that smaller class sizes translate into greater opportunities for children to get more individualized attention. 
   We've heard that the size of the Republican tax bill is such that it will require significant cuts in crucial education programs. We've heard that if defense is funded at the level requested by the president, we should anticipate at 38 percent ($180 billion) cut in domestic discretionary spending. That is the worst possible news for the millions of people who rely on vital initiatives like Title I, Head Start, and the Reading Excellence program. Absolutely ludicrous. 
   For instance, under this proposal: Nearly 6 million disadvantaged children would lose Title I services that help them meet basic academic needs; 270,000 summer jobs and training opportunities would be eliminated for low-income young people; 375,000 children would be denied Head Start services that help them come to school ready-to-learn; and 549,000 children would be cut from the Reading Excellence program, denying them the extra help they need to read well by the 4th grade. 
   Mr. President, allow me to share some examples from my own experience. Minnesota, like most states, receives only a portion of the Title I money it desperately needs as it is. Our current allocation is about $88 million. If fully funded, we would receive approximately a quarter-billion dollars and over a hundred million additional dollars for concentration grants, according to the Minnesota Department of Children, Families and Learning. Well, I suppose that's a start. A cut of even half a percent on a program like Title I would be disastrous. But I can see it coming. 
   One-fourth of Minnesota's Title I dollars goes to only two cities, either to Minneapolis or St. Paul, because both cities have high concentrations of poverty. How can we expect to eliminate the learning gaps among our children when so many others are left without opportunities or options? 
   Right now elementary and secondary education receive on average about eight percent of its funding from the federal government. It is imperative that we take bold steps to pass a tax measure that will, at the absolute least, serve to move us closer to providing the resources so badly needed in so many areas of education. But it seems clear we will not do that here. 
   Another area that I believe is a vital component of our national infrastructure is our schools. That is why I am an original cosponsor of Senator Robb's school modernization effort that we will hear more about later. I think it too is a step in the right direction and I honestly believe it's another sure way to say to our kids, ``You matter. Your schools matter. Your future matters.'' In Minnesota alone, there is a one-point-five billion dollar unmet need for school construction. Our average school is over 50 years old. Eighty-five percent of Minnesota schools report a need to upgrade or rebuild their building just to achieve ``good'' overall condition. Sixty-six percent report at least one unsatisfactory environmental factor like air quality, ventilation, acoustics, heating, or lighting. 
   My staff and I have visited nearly a hundred schools over the past eight months and we've heard stories of pathetic conditions throughout the state. I know many of you have heard these stories in your own states. In my state, for example, Two Harbors High School, which is on the north shore of Lake Superior is representative. Two Harbors is a thriving community, but each day its students must enter a facility that can't meet some of their most basic educational needs. Three separate studies were conducted to assess Two Harbors' facilities. The studies identified twenty-seven critical needs that are characteristic of so many of our schools. The original facility is sixty years old. The facility does not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. There are no teacher offices. The school does not permit the separation of middle level and senor high school level students. The list is extensive. I know we've heard it all before--the crumbling schools, the lousy physical environments, and the resulting distractions that once again detract from our children's ability to learn. The question is ``When are we going to wake up and actually do something about it?'' 
   Mr. President, I could go on but the time for talk is long past. The time for pondering our next move is over. The time to move and to move deftly is at hand. My colleagues' proposal urges a major transfer of funding that goes straight to the heart of where our priorities ought to be. It calls for a real investment in real people, people who truly deserve it. Smaller class sizes. Access to quality education at an early age. A fairer share for individuals with disabilities. Help for low and middle income students who deserve every opportunity to attend college. 
   These are some of the most fundamental elements in a strong education system that values all its children, leaving none of them behind. What is the Republican alternative? Denying our children access to the very things that would prepare them for healthy, happy, productive lives in the 21st century. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise in recognition of the anniversary of the Purple Heart Medal. 
   This medal has been given to U.S. soldiers for wounds received in military action ever since George Washington invented the award during the Revolutionary War. Recipients of this award have demonstrated courage and love of country. Many of its recipients have made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of freedom. We must never forget the sacrifices made by Americans who have fought for our democracy and prosperity. 
   In celebration of this anniversary and to stand as a permanent token of America's gratitude for the sacrifices made by recipients of this distinguished medal, a memorial will be dedicated at Fort Snelling National Cemetery in the great State of Minnesota on August 7, 1999. I wish to publicly thank those who made the memorial a reality, and I especially wish to publicly thank those veterans who have earned the Purple Heart Medal by giving selflessly for democracy and our country.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 3 weeks ago, President Clinton visited some of the poorest communities in our country and he spoke eloquently of our obligations to America's most disadvantaged children. Now, with our economy booming and record surpluses, we have a chance to do better for all of our children. This budget fails America's children. I want to speak as loudly and boldly as I can about this reconciliation bill, first about the Republican proposal, and then about what we are proposing as Democrats. 
   If you look at the non-Social Security surplus, about three-quarters of it really assumes cuts in future domestic spending. The Republican proposal on the floor does not restore any of these cuts. In fact, they add another cut of roughly $200 billion. The Republican plan would require a 38-percent cut in domestic spending in the year 2009, and the Republican tax bills are loaded with corporate welfare for multinational corporations, banks, insurance companies, Wall Street securities firms, and tax giveaways for the wealthy. That is a disappointment. It is a very harsh budget. 
   But even the Democratic plan fails to fully fund or restore these cuts. Senate Democrats have reserved $290 billion of the surplus to soften the blow on our discretionary priorities like education, but we still allow cuts of several hundred billion dollars. In our plan, with our $300 billion of tax cuts, we do not make up the assumed cuts in our domestic priorities either. 
   Since defense spending will go up, and there will be spending for transportation which also will go up significantly over the next 10 years, our other domestic priorities will be squeezed even more. 
   How can we, as Democrats, say we are for addressing the needs of America's children, for fighting poverty, for fully funding Head Start, for equal access to quality education, for helping working families afford the cost of health care and child care, for cleaning up the environment, for community policing, and for veterans' health care, when we are assuming domestic spending cuts of several hundred billion dollars? Something has to give. To use the old Yiddish proverb, you can't dance at two weddings at the same time. 
   I do not understand this. There are 14 million children who are poor in our country--14 million. There are 6.5 million children who live in households with income of one-half the poverty level. Close to one out of every four children in our country under the age of 3 are growing up poor. Close to 50 percent of children of color under the age of 3 are growing up poor. And now we are being told by both parties--the Republican Party much more so than the Democratic Party--but both parties, that we cannot afford to renew our national vow of equal opportunity for every child? Where in these proposals do we, as a Senate representing the United States of America, live up to our national vow of equal opportunity for every child? 
   Right now, in Early Head Start, for children age 3 or younger, 1 percent of the children who could be helped and given a head start are able to get this assistance. We are funding this program at a 1 percent level. 
   For the Republicans, you have $800 billion of tax cuts. You make no investment in any of these areas. Your budget and your proposal will lead to Draconian, really brutal cuts in these programs. Not only will we not be doing anything to make sure poor children have a chance in America, to make sure that there is equal opportunity for every child, but the proposal of the majority party will be making cuts in these programs. 
   And to the Democratic Party, my party, we have a better proposal. It is less harsh. But there has to be some connection between the convictions we profess and the budgets we propose, and a willingness to fight for them. At some point, the chasm between our words and our actions becomes too wide. If we do not fight hard enough for the things we stand for at some point, we have to recognize we really do not stand for them. We really do not stand for them. 
   I cannot believe with record economic performance, that the Republican Party can come to the floor of the Senate with a proposal that calls for $800 billion of tax cuts, most of them flowing to our wealthiest citizens, but with a proposed 38-percent cut in Head Start, child care, community policing, and cleanup of the environment. 
   And to my party, I cannot believe the Democrats come out with a proposal where we, too, are essentially proposing cuts in some of these key domestic priorities. Why did we become involved in politics? What do we believe in? What are our values? Can we not at least make some investment to make sure every child, no matter the color of skin or income of family, urban or rural, or boy or girl, will have a chance to reach her full potential and his full potential? 
   What ever happened to the Democratic Party's strong commitment to equal opportunity for every citizen? I do not see it in these proposals. We ought not to be talking about tax cuts that benefit the most affluent citizens, when we cannot even live up to our national vow of equal opportunity for every child. 
   I hope we will do better as we move forward in this debate. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from New York. I actually was going to come down here and take a little bit of time to prepare for this, but I will just do this off the top of my head. 
   I want to say to the Senator from New York, Senator MOYNIHAN, I come to the floor to fully support his initiative, what he is trying to do. I think what the Senator from New York is saying is that we have a proposal on the floor, the Republican proposal, which after the first decade is essentially going to explode the debt, and that really this is the height of folly. 
   I will not get at all demagogic right now, but I will say this. I do not mean that other times when I speak that I am demagogic. I don't mean that at all. I will say this. When I hear the discussion about how we need to give the surplus back to people, give it back to the taxpayers, I say to myself--and I think this is what Senator MOYNIHAN is trying to say, not just to the Senate but to the country--I say to myself, this is actually not true. 
   Whatever we have by way of surpluses, assuming that our economic performance will continue to be as good over the decades to come, that surplus belongs to our children and grandchildren. We built up this debt. We saddled this debt on them. We ought to make sure that whatever we do doesn't explode the debt after 2010, that we make sure Medicare and Social Security will be available for them, and we make sure our children and grandchildren will have the same opportunities we have had. 
   What the Senator from New York is doing with this point of order, his challenge right now to the majority party's plan, is to essentially say this. The people of our country, the vast majority of people in Minnesota, New York, and all across the country, are very intelligent about this. The last thing they want to see us do is explode the debt again. They don't want to see us do it because they don't want to see us go into more debt as a nation. They don't want to see their children saddled with more debt. 
   There is one other point, which is a political point and also an ideological point. If we pass this proposal, the Republican plan--and I believe the President must veto it--as we look to the second 10 years, we are going to have such an explosion of deficits and debt that will make it impossible for us to move forward on any of the initiatives that do in fact give more opportunities to children, to allow some of the investments we should make--not unwise investments, but investments in education, investments in child care, investments in economic development, investments in our urban communities, investments in our rural communities. 
   This Republican initiative will explode the debt. It is fiscally irresponsible. It will put us in a straitjacket where we as a country will not be able to make any of the wise investments we should make in education for our children and our grandchildren. This is a critically important initiative, I say to the Senator from New York, and I fully support his action. This vote is probably as important a vote as we are going to have over the next couple of days. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from New York, the point he just made is profoundly important. We do not have a right to make this decision for our children. The next century belongs to them. We do not have a right to make this decision for other Democrats and Republicans who are in the Senate to serve and represent people. This is fiscally irresponsible. It explodes the debt, and it puts us in an absolute straitjacket whereby we will be incapable of making any of the investments we all say we are for to make this a better country. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that will ensure that private health insurance companies cover the costs for drug and alcohol addiction treatment services at the same level that they pay for treatment for other diseases. The purpose of this bill is to end discrimination in insurance coverage for drug and alcohol addiction treatment. This bill, entitled Fairness in Treatment: The Drug and Alcohol Addiction Recovery Act of 1999, offers the necessary provisions to provide this assurance. 
   For too long, the problem of drug and alcohol addiction has been viewed as a moral issue, rather than as a disease. Too often, a cloak of secrecy has surrounded this problem, causing people who have this disease to feel ashamed and afraid to seek treatment for their symptoms for fear that they will be seen as admitting to a moral failure, or a weakness in character. We have all seen portrayals of alcoholics and addicts that are intended to be humorous or derogatory, and only reinforce the biases against people who have problems with drug and alcohol addiction. I cannot imagine this type of portrayal of someone who has another kind of chronic illness, a heart problem, or who happens to carry a gene that predisposes them to diabetes.  
   It has been shown that some forms of addiction have a genetic basis, and yet we still try to deny the serious medical nature of this disease. We think of those with this disease as somehow different from us. We forget that someone who has a problem with drugs or alcohol can look just like the person we see in the mirror, or the person who is sitting next to us at work or on the subway, or like someone in our own family. In fact, it is likely that most of us know someone who has experienced drug and alcohol addiction, within our families or our circle of friends or coworkers. 
   Alcoholism and drug addiction are painful, private struggles with staggering public costs. A study prepared by The Lewin Group for the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, estimated that the total economic cost of alcohol and drug abuse to be $246 billion for 1992. Of this cost, $98 billion was due to drug addiction to illicit drugs and other drugs taken for non-medical purposes. This estimate includes addiction treatment and prevention costs, as well as costs associated with related illnesses, reduced job productivity or lost earnings, and other costs to society such as crime and social welfare programs. The study also determined that these costs are borne primarily by governments (46 percent), followed by those who abuse drugs and members of their households (44 percent). According to this same study, private health and life insurance companies bear only 3.2 percent of the costs of drug abuse and 10.2 percent of the costs of alcohol abuse. 
   The health effects resulting from alcohol addiction can be very serious, even fatal. A 1996 article in Scientific American estimated that excessive alcohol consumption causes more than 100,000 deaths in the U.S. each year. Of these deaths, twenty-four per cent are due to drunken driving, eleven percent are homicides, and eight percent are suicides. Alcohol contributes to cancers of the esophagus, larynx, and oral cavity, which account for seventeen percent of these deaths. Strokes related to alcohol use account for another nine percent of deaths. Alcohol causes several other ailments, such as cirrhosis of the liver. These ailments account for eighteen percent of the deaths. 
   We know that addiction to alcohol and other drugs contribute to other problems as well. Addictive substances have the potential for destroying the person who is addicted, their family, and their other relationships. We know, for example, that fetal alcohol syndrome is the leading known cause of mental retardation. If the woman who was addicted to alcohol could receive proper treatment, fetal alcohol syndrome for her baby would be 100 percent preventable, and more than 12,000 infants born in the U.S. each year would not suffer from fetal alcohol syndrome, with its irreversible physical and mental damage. We know too of the devastation caused by addiction when violence between people is one of the consequences. A 1998 SAMHSA report outlined the links between domestic violence and substance abuse. We know from clinical reports that 25-50% of men who commit acts of domestic violence also have substance abuse problems. The report recognized the link between the victim of abuse and use of alcohol and drugs, and recommended that after the woman's safety has been addressed, the next step would be to help with providing treatment for her addiction as a step toward independence and health, and toward the prevention of the consequences for the children who suffer the same abuse either directly, or indirectly by witnessing spousal violence. 
   People who have the disease of addiction can be found throughout our society. According to the 1997 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse published by SAMHSA, nearly 73 percent of all illegal drug users in the United States are employed. This number represents 6.7 million full-time workers and 1.6 million part-time workers. Although many of these workers could and should have insurance benefits that would cover treatment for this disease, they do not. 
   In addition to the health problems resulting from the failure to treat the illness, there are other serious consequences affecting the workplace, such as lost productivity, high employee turnover, low employee morale, mistakes, accidents, and increased worker's compensation insurance and health insurance premiums--all results of untreated addiction problems. Whether you are a corporate CEO or a small business owner, there are simple, effective steps that can be taken--including providing insurance coverage for this disease, ready access to treatment, and workplace policies that support treatment--that can reduce these human and economic costs. 
   We know from the outstanding research conducted at NIH, through the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, that treatment for drug and alcohol addiction can be effective. That is the major finding from a NIDA-sponsored nationwide study of drug abuse treatment outcomes. The Drug Abuse Treatment Outcome Study (DATOS) tracked 10,000 people in nearly 100 treatment programs in 11 cities who entered treatment for addiction between 1991 and 1993. Results showed that for all four treatment types studied, there were reductions in the use of cocaine, heroin, and marijuana after treatment. Moreover, treatment resulted in other positive changes in behavior, such as fewer psychological symptoms and increased work productivity. 
   We must do more to prevent this illness and to treat those who are addicted to drugs and alcohol. Over the past few years, the principle of parity in insurance coverage for alcohol and drug rehabilitation and treatment has received the strong support of the White House, ONDCP Director General Barry McCaffrey, Former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, Former President and Mrs. Gerald Ford, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, Kaiser Permanente Health Plans, and many leading figures in medicine, business, government, journalism, and entertainment who have successfully fought the battle of addiction with the help of treatment. Hearings held last year by the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions highlighted the recent major advances in scientific information about the disease; the biological causes of addiction; the effectiveness and low cost of treatment; and many painful, personal stories of people, including children, who have been denied treatment. 
   We know that the failure of insurance companies to provide treatment can sometimes have devastating results. The New York Times recently highlighted the tragic suicide of a young man who desperately sought inpatient treatment care for his drug addiction and fought for 8 months to have the plan authorize the treatment that was in fact included in as part of his benefits. The authorization came through--but too late--he had died three weeks earlier from a drug overdose. This kind of denial of care for addiction treatment is not at all unique--the 1998 Hay Group Report on Employer Health Care Dollars Spent on Substance Abuse showed that from 1988 through 1998 the value of substance abuse treatment benefits decreased by 74.5%, as compared to a 11.5% decrease for overall health care benefits. 
   Addiction to alcohol and drugs is a disease that affects the brain, the body, and the spirit. We must provide adequate opportunities for the treatment of addiction in order to help those who are suffering and to prevent the health and social problems that it causes. This legislation will take an important step in this direction by requiring that health insurance plans eliminate discrimination for addiction treatment. The costs for this are very low. A 1999 study by the Rand Corporation found that the cost to managed care health plans is now only about $5 per person per year for unlimited substance abuse treatment benefits to employees of big companies. A 1997 Milliman and Robertson study found that complete substance abuse treatment parity would increase per capita health insurance premiums by only one half of one percent, or less than $1 per member per month--without even considering any of the obvious savings that will result from treatment. Several studies have shown that for every $1 spent on treatment, more than $7 is saved in other health care expenses, and that these savings are in addition to the financial and other benefits of increased productivity, as well as participation in family and community life. Providing  treatment for addiction also saves millions of dollars in the criminal justice system. But for treatment to be effective and helpful throughout our society all systems of care--including private insurance plans--must share this responsibility. 
   This legislation does not mandate that health insurers offer substance addiction treatment benefits. What it does is prohibit discrimination by health plans who offer substance addiction treatment from placing unfair and life-threatening limitations on caps, access, or financial requirements for addiction treatment that are different from other medical and surgical services. 
   We must move forward now to vigorously address the serious and life-threatening problem of drug and alcohol addiction in our country. It is long past time that insurance companies do their fair share in bearing the responsibility for treating this disease. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. I might not even need to take that much time. 
   First of all, I thank the Senator from Indiana for his comments. I was thinking about what he said. When I was a college teacher, I used to talk a bit about Birch Bayh, some of the Senators who took strong, principled stands. The Senator mentioned other great Senators, but I think the Senator represents a really wonderful tradition. 
   I think what Senator BAYH said at the very end of his remarks is what is most important to me. I was thinking about when I ran for the Senate from Minnesota. It would be an honor to be a Member of the House of Representatives; the Presiding Officer was a Member of the House of Representatives. As a Senator, you could do a much better job of being an advocate for the people in your State, because the rules of the Senate were such that you could come to the floor, even if it was you alone --maybe others would not agree with you, but hopefully you could get a majority--if you thought the Senate was in a disconnect with the people, to the concerns and circumstances of people you represented, to express your concerns. 
   I just mention a gathering I was at the Dahl farm in northwest Minnesota. It is a huge problem in Arkansas, too. Farmers showed up, coming from a long distance away. It was a desperate situation. In the Senate you can come to the floor and say: I have to come to the floor and fight for family farmers. I have to come to the floor to talk about comprehensive health care. I have to come to the floor and figure out a vehicle whereby I can talk about ending this discrimination when it comes to people who are struggling with mental illness. I have to come to the floor to talk about poor children in America. I have to come to the floor to talk about veterans health care and the gap in veterans health care in Minnesota and around the country. 
   The great thing about being a Senator is you can come to the floor with an amendment and you can fight for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is true. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, that is part of the genius of the Senate and the way Senators have conducted themselves over the years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the reason I am going to vote against this resolution is, to be very direct--I am not full of hatred about this; I am just making a political point, and we do make political points on the floor of the Senate--when I look at the context of what has been going on here, I am in profound opposition to what the majority leader and the majority party have been doing, which is to sort of what we call fill up the tree, basically denying Senators the right to come to the floor with amendments, to try to make sure we don't have to debate tough and controversial questions, to try to make sure we can't move forward agendas that we, as Senators, think are important to the people of our States. 
   I am absolutely opposed to what I think is being done here. Therefore, I think this resolution fits into that pattern of trying to stifle dissent, trying to stifle a minority opinion, trying to stifle individual Senators from coming to the floor and doing their absolute best to be the strongest possible advocates for the people of their States. That is why I am voting against this resolution. 
   It is sort of two issues. One is the question that the Senator from Nevada spoke on, which is, what is the role of the Senate in relation to the House of Representatives, in relation to making sure that we have respect for minority rights, so on and forth, what is the role of the Senate as a deliberative body, as a debate body. The other issue, which is even more important to me, is whether or not I can, as a Senator, do the best possible job for the people of my State. That is why I am going to oppose this resolution. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for 7 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This is an area in which the Presiding Officer has done a lot of work. I thank the Senator from Arkansas for his good work on veterans issues. 
   Mr. President, on June 15th I sent letters to each of the twenty-two VISN  Directors of the VA health care system to ask for data on how their network would be affected by the President's flat-lined budget. I conducted this survey because the stories coming from rank and file VA staff and veterans who I had talked with were horrible: 
   Veterans with PTSD waiting months to get treatment; 
   Veterans living in fear that facilities would be closed and access to care would be cut off; 
   VA nurses working mandatory overtime, frequent back to back shifts because of staffing shortages. 
   But I wasn't getting complete answers in Washington. So to find the truth I went to the VISN Directors themselves. By the middle of July, all 22 VISN Directors had responded. I am pleased to say that overall their responses were very candid. They took my letters in the spirit that I intended: to understand the stakes involved in the VA health care budget debate here in Washington. Many of these directors showed real courage in responding as frankly as they did. 
   My staff summarized the responses in a report. I think the findings should be of great concern to every one of my colleagues. 
   I can best describe the results in two points: 
   1. The legacy of the Clinton administration's budget will be fewer VA staff, offering fewer services, and treating fewer Veterans. 
   2. The House and Senate cannot buy off the nations veterans by adding a few hundred million dollars to the President's budget. Only full funding will restore the VA to a capacity America's veterans deserve. 
   Let me be specific: The report finds that: 
   20 VISNs would have funding shortfalls under the Clinton Budget: 
   As many as 10,000 employees would be cut under the Clinton budget: 19 of the 22 VISNs indicated that staff reductions would be necessary under the Clinton administration fiscal year 2000 budget. One VISN indicated that under the President's budget it would need to reduce employment by 1,454 FTEEs, a cut of 15.4 percent of that VISN's workforce. 
   10 VISNs would reduce patient workload under the Clinton budget: Only one VISN said it could treat more veterans this year than last year under this budget. 
   71,129 fewer veterans would be served under the Clinton budget: One VISN reported that it may need to eliminate services to as many as 17,000 veterans. And this number is only the total from the 6 VISNs who gave us an estimated number. Again. Four other VISNs said they would treat fewer veterans. 
   But even an increase of $500 million above the President's budget would not reverse this trend. On the contrary, this report shows that an increase of such a small amount would still require hard choices and in some cases reductions in services, staff, and veterans served. 
   At least 12 VISNs would have short falls under Clinton budget plus $500 million: the largest deficit for an individual VISN was $100 million. 
   At least 13 VISNs would reduce staffing under the Clinton budget plus $500 million--in one VISN by over 1,100 employees. 
   At least 38,155 fewer veterans would be served under the Clinton budget plus $500 million: Again, only one VISN said it could positively increase services to veterans under this scenario. One VISN said it would still turn away 9,600 veterans. 
   Veterans health care is at a crossroads. While the nation's twenty-two VISNs have struggled valiantly to do more with a shrinking budget, the results of this survey suggest that urgent action is required to reverse what has become a funding crisis in VA health care--even as America's veterans population becomes older and more reliant on VA services. Spending decisions made by Congress in the next few months will determine whether predictions made by the 22 VISNs become reality or a disaster narrowly averted. 
   This funding crisis will affect the World War II veteran, who has to drive 6 hours to get care because funding problems prevented the VA from opening a community based out-patient clinic in his area. 
   This funding crisis will affect the VA nurse who has to work 16 hour shifts because hiring enough nurses is too expensive. 
   It is outrageous that with federal budget surpluses 20 VISNs will run a deficit. It is outrageous that staff will be cut, or furloughed while being asked to work harder and longer hours. It is outrageous that over 71,000 fewer sick and disabled veterans would be treated by the VA next year even as they get older. These veterans need more health care not less. 
   But this story doesn't begin with my report. It is really a continuation of a battle begun 13 years ago with the release of the first Independent Budget by the major veterans groups. It is the continuation of a battle fought by Senator JOHNSON in the Budget Committee--to provide full funding for veterans. And of a battle TIM and I fought on the floor on the Senate to provide full funding for veterans in the Senate budget resolution--a fight that we won with a unanimous vote to increase VA funding to the level recommended by the independent budget. 
   But let me be clear, this is also a fight we must carry on to Appropriations. 
   What this report suggests is that we are through cutting the fat out of the VA budget. There is nothing left to pare but bone and muscle. The VA has reached its fighting weight and has plunged dangerously below. 
   We've squeezed just about as much money out of the system as we possibly can. People on the front lines of veterans health care--whether care providers or recipients--know that the VA health care system is desperately short of resources. I worry that my friend Lyle Pearson, of North Mankato, decorated for his service in WWII, disabled vet, who receives care at VA facilities in Minnesota, will not get the care he needs if the flat-line budget is not improved. I worry that veterans across the nation will be caught between increasing need and flat-lined funds. Veterans in Bangor, Maine are concerned because a VA inspector general report noted that their outpatient clinic had a 10 month backlog of new patients. Things were so bad last Fall that the clinic couldn't see walk-in patients or urgent-care patients, and there was a four month wait to see the clinic's part-time psychiatrist. Veterans in Iowa are facing the possible closure of one of their three major veterans hospitals because of budget shortfalls. 
   The last chance for veterans this year is VA/HUD appropriations. But we still don't know what the funding level will be the VA/HUD appropriations bills. In two and a half months, fiscal 1999 will end and we still don't even have a start on funding FY 2000. The bills have not been marked up by the committee. This is unacceptable. If veterans funding is allocated in the dark of night in a last minute omnibus spending bill, I fear the veteran will be short changed. Bring the VA/HUD bill to the floor. If there isn't enough money in it for veterans, we'll amend it to add more. 
   A story in the July 18th edition of the Richmond Times Dispatch quotes in chairman of the VA/HUD appropriations Subcommittee as saying that the budget situation that we face this year is very tough. That same article says that VA health care might be facing a $1 billion cut. 
   I've heard that rumor. I've heard the rumor that veterans will get an increase. Well let me start a rumor this morning that veterans can take to the bank: I give notice now to my colleagues that I will be on the floor of the Senate offering an amendment to VA/HUD appropriations the first opportunity I get if the funding is not enough. 
   The veteran has borne the pain of budget cuts for too long. Tax cuts should come after relief for veterans. Defense buildups should come after relief for veterans. Let's make the veteran the priority again. 
   This is a fight to make VA health care the gold standard for health care again. It is a fight to keep a promise to the veteran: If you served your country your nation will stand up for you. If you were injured you will be healed. If you are disabled, the country will raise you up--not cast you aside. 
   I call on my colleagues to join me and the veterans in this fight. It will take every U.S. Senator and every Member of the House. It will take the VFW, the DAV, the PVA, the AMVETS, and the Vietnam Vets and all the other groups besides.  
   Most importantly, America's veterans must demand it. Veterans need to hear the call one more time. 
   Together we can restore the funds and keep our covenant with the veteran. 
   Mr. President, today the Vice President announced that the White House is going to be asking for another $1 billion. Veterans organizations last week--I thank them--came together with us and presented this data. We said there are huge problems in the country; a lot of veterans aren't going to get the care they need and the care that they deserve. 
   The Vice President stated the White House is going to ask for an additional $1 billion. I thank the Vice President for his announcement. That helps. However, we are going to have to do a lot better. That still leaves us with a $2 billion shortfall. To my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and to the White House and to the Vice President, I say that the veterans community is organizing. It is good grassroots politics. They are going to hold us all accountable. We will have to do a lot better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to speak today on the distressing human rights situation in Burma. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, ASEAN, held their Annual Ministerial Meeting in Singapore this weekend. And this week Secretary Albright will be in Singapore for the ASEAN regional forum and the Post-Ministerial Conference. It is essential that during all of these meetings serious attention is focused on the worsening human rights situation in Burma. 
   We haven't heard much about Burma in the media recently. There have been no major news events in Burma recently to grab the attention of the world: No Tiananmen Square scale massacres, no Kosovo scale dislocations, no bloody street clashes like we've seen in East Timor or Iran. But in Burma today something equally chilling is proceeding, out of the world's view: A slow, systematic strangling of the democratic opposition. Since last fall, the ruling military regime has detained, threatened and tortured opposition party members in increasing numbers. At least 150 senior members of the opposition National League for Democracy are being held in government detention centers. 3,000 political prisoners are held in Rangoon's notorious Insein prison. The regime has forced or coerced nearly 40,000 others to resign from the opposition party in recent months. In a videotape smuggled out of Burma in April and delivered to the U.N. Human Rights Commission in Geneva, the leader of the National League for Democracy, Aung San Suu Kyi, said government repression had worsened greatly in the past year on a scale ``the world has not yet grasped.'' She said on the tape: ``What we have suffered over the last year is far more than we have suffered over the last six or seven years.'' According to one Western official, the regime intends to do nothing less than eradicate the opposition ``once and for all.'' 
   Mr. President, most of this repression takes place quietly, through intimidation, arrests at night and other activities out of the public eye. The Burmese regime carefully controls access to the country for journalists. So we have no video footage of the repression and only scant reporting from a few brave journalists and human rights workers. But just because we cannot see what is going on in Burma does not mean we can ignore it. It is all the more important for us to 
   speak about the situation there and show our support for the forces of democracy and human rights. 
   In July 1997, when Burma became a full ASEAN member, ASEAN countries claimed that such a move would encourage the regime--the so-called State Peace and Development Council, or SPDC, to improve its human rights record. In fact the opposite has been true. As the Washington Post put it in a recent editorial: ``ASEAN's logic was familiar: Engagement with the outside world would persuade Burma's dictators to relax their repressive rule. The verdict on this test case of the engagment theory thus far is clear: The behavior of the thugs who run Burma has worsened, and so has life for most Burmese.'' 
   Not only has the SPDC stepped up its repression of the opposition party, the National League for Democracy, it has intensified its campaign of oppression against the country's ethnic minoriites. The regime has increased forcible relocation programs in the Karen, Karenni, and Shan States. The use of forced labor in all seven ethnic minority states continues at a high level, and forced portering occurs wherever there are counter-insurgency activities. 
   Amnesty International has just issued three new reports which describe in compelling detail the harsh, relentless mistreatment of farmers and other civilians of ethnic minority groups in rural areas. Let me read a few brief passages from these excellent, detailed reports: 
   In February 1999, Amnesty International interviewed recently arrived Shan refugees in Thailand in order to obtain an update on the human rights situation in the central Shan State. The pattern of violations has remained the same, including forced labor and portering, extrajudicial killings, and ill-treatment of villagers. Troops also routinely stole villagers' rice supplies, cattle, and gold, using them to sell or to feed themselves. According to reports, Army officers do not provide their troops with adequate supplies so troops in effect live off the villagers. One 33 year-old farmer from Murngnai township described the relationship between the Shan people and the army:  
   Before, I learned that the armed forces are supposed to protect people, but they are repressing people. If you can't give them everything they want, they consider you as their enemy ..... it is illogical, the army is forcing the people to protect them, instead of vice-versa.  
   Amnesty International also reports similar abuses in Karen state: 
   Karen refugees interviewed in Thailand cited several reasons for leaving their homes: Some had previously been forced out of their villages by the Burmese army and had been hiding in the forest. They feared being shot on sight by the military because they occupied ``black areas'' where the insurgents were allegedly active. Many others fled directly from their home villages in the face of village burnings, constant demands for forced labor, looting of food and supplies, and extrajudicial killings at the hands of the military. 
   These human rights violations took place in the context of widespread counter-insurgency activities against the Karen National Union (KNU) one of the last remaining armed ethnic minority opposition groups still fighting the military government. Guerilla fighting between the two groups continues, but the primary victims are Karen civilians. Civilians are at risk of torture and extrajudicial executions by the military, who appear to automatically assume that they supported or were even members of the KNU. Civilians also became sitting targets for constant demands by the army for forced labor or portering duties. As one Karen refugee explained to Amnesty International, ``Even though we are civilians, the military treats us like their enemy.'' 
   A similar situation exists in Karenni State. Three-quarters of the dozens of Karenni refugees interviewed by Amnesty International in February 1999 were forced by the military to work as unpaid laborers. They were in effect an unwilling pool of laborers which the military drew from to work in military bases, build roads, and clear land. When asked why they decided to flee to Thailand, many refugees said that forced labor duties made it impossible for them to survive and do work to support themselves. Several of them also mentioned that forced labor demands had increased during 1998. 
   Unpaid forced labor is in contravention of the International Labor Organization's (ILO) Convention No. 29, which the government of Burma signed in 1955. The ILO has repeatedly raised the issue with the government and in June 1996 took the rare step of appointing a Commission of Inquiry. In August 1998 the Commission published a comprehensive report, which found the government of Burma ``..... guilty of an international crime that is also, if committed in a widespread or systematic manner, a crime against humanity.'' 
   Mr. President, I am under no illusion that the military regime in Burma will reform overnight and end its human rights abuses. But I think it is critically important that we keep the  world's attention focused on the terrible repression of democracy and abuse of ethnic minorities going on there. I hope our message of concern, backed by the invaluable reporting done by Amnesty International, will get through somehow to the Burmese people and to their courageous leader, Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. 
   ASEAN member countries are gathering in Singapore currently for a series of meetings. We need to encourage them to develop a new strategy for dealing with the SPDC's intransigence regarding human rights. Now that criticism of fellow ASEAN members is no longer completely taboo, I hope some of the ASEAN countries that have improved their own human rights records will take the initiative to prod the Burmese to move in the right direction. The ASEAN regional forum (ARF), which deals with Asian security issues, will meet at the same time and should address this as a security problem. Western nations, including the U.S., who will also be present at the ARF should work closely with all concerned countries to encourage the SPDC to improve its human rights record. 
   Even if we don't see quick improvement, those of us who care deeply about human rights have a duty to keep the plight of the Burmese people before the world community. I am committed to doing that, and I hope my colleagues will join me in pressing the Burmese regime for real, measurable improvements in these areas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank Senator BIDEN for his great leadership on this issue. I hope I am an original cosponsor, and, if not, I certainly ask unanimous consent to be named a cosponsor. 
   I want to talk about a program that is extraordinarily important to the safety of communities. That's the COPS Program. In 1994, Congress enacted the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act. This act established a program known today as the COPS Program. This program has had unparalleled success. 
   The authority to hire officers under the COPS Program expires in fiscal year 2000. Although the President's Budget provided for an initiative that would allow a continuation of support for hiring police, the Senate Appropriations Committee markup does not include such funding. 
   This is not the time to cut back on funding police programs for our communities. The COPS Program authorized the hiring of 100,000 police officers and allowed states and localities to concentrate those officers on community policing. Funds were used for purposes such as: Training law enforcement officers in crime prevention and community policing techniques; development of technologies that emphasize crime prevention; linking community organizations and residents with police; and developing innovative programs. 
   In 1998, the COPS Program initiated the Safe Schools and Indian Country law enforcement improvements initiatives. The Safe Schools Initiative included $167.5 million for partnerships between law enforcement agencies and schools to improve safety in elementary and secondary schools and to hire school resource officers. 
   Under the Indian country law enforcement improvement initiative funding was available for hiring uniformed officers and assisting with other law enforcement improvements on tribal lands. 
   Under the COPS Program, the Youth Firearms Violence Initiative was developed to assist police departments in combating the rise of youth firearms violence. 
   As a result of the additional police officers in the community and the innovative programs funded by the COPS programs, we have seen historic crime reductions over the last few years. Crime is at its lowest rate in 25 years and has declined for 6 1/2 consecutive years. 
   The COPS Program is strongly supported by every major law enforcement group. Why? Because it responds directly to their needs. 
   I want to share with you a number of examples of how different communities in my home State of Minnesota have successful used COPS funding and how their communities have benefited. The Anoka Police Department has refined its junvenile conferencing program--a program which essentially brings together youthful offenders with the victims of their offenses. The basic idea is that this confrontation will cause the young person to see the consequences of his/her actions and make it less likely to occur again. It also has eased the pressure on the court system. 
   In short, Police Accountability Conferencing is a non-traditional way of dealing with juvenile offenders. Modeled after a program in Australia, it brings the victim, the offender and their relatives together with an officer, who serves as a mediator, to discuss the ramifications of the offender's actions and decide on a mutually agreeable form of punishment. 
   This commitment to young people is a classic example of how COPS grants can be utilized effectively. 
   In addition, Anoka has a COPS officer who is also used as a school liaison officer. During the summer, this officer works with the landlords association in dealing with landlord-tenant issues. 
   Anoka Police Chief Ed Wilberg views the COPS Program as a very successful one--one which really does help to meet the needs of his community. 
   In both the St. Paul and Minneapolis, the Police Departments have been able to free up more officers so that they can do proactive work. Because of the COPS Program their work is not limited to responding solely to 911 calls. 
   For instance, Chief Robert Olson of the Minneapolis Police Department talks about being able to commit ``significant additional resources in both police officers and equipment'' to address the core cause of crime in Minneapolis. He reports that ``The catalyst for helping the city commit to those resources was the Federal COPS program.'' 
   Chief Olson further states that  
   There is still a significant need for federal support of community-oriented policing services . . . . Law enforcement needs that federal support . . . and I hope that when these issues are presented that you will consider a continuation of the mission of the COPS Office in whatever form seems appropriate.  
   In St. Paul, this is what the Chief's office had to say:  
   The COPS grants have allowed us to hire police officers, increase efficiency through the use of technology, put greater emphasis on our problem solving efforts and enhance the linkage we have with our community. The COPS program is one of the best things President Clinton and Congress has done for law enforcement. We would like to see more funds for technology and support to further enhance our efforts.  
   In White Bear Lake, a rural community, COPS funding has enabled restructuring so that more officers are in the community. White Bear Lake has divided its community in 19 subcommunities with at least one officer assigned to each community. Quite simply, White Bear Lake jumped light years ahead because of the technology that the COPS grants allowed them to purchase--which has the direct result of police officers being in the community. 
   In the Shakopee Police Department, the COPS Program has been a godsend to an agency its size. It has allowed the department to hire additional officers in a diverse community that is growing every rapidly. 
   Within the last few months they were able to hire community service officers to provide services that ordinarily would have to have been performed by sworn officers. This means that additional sworn officers are freed up to do work in the community. Currently the Police Department is working to hire school resource officers. The school district has agreed to help with the cost. This would not be possible without COPS. 
   Here, I say to Senator BIDEN, is the quote I have been saving for you. 
   Police Chief Ken Froschheiser of Thief River Falls said that COPS ``has been so successful that if the citizens heard that it was going to be pulled, we would be hung.'' He also said that he jokes with the school district that he really doesn't have two officers, that the school district has two employees. 
   His school liaison officers are in the school 12 months of the year. They do things like bike patrols and help create block programs which allows his officers to be closer to the community, neighborhood by neighborhood. The COPS Program provided the resources to do the school work that he wanted to do. He also has noticed an increased collaboration with other city and county agencies, for example, the school district, social services and the court system. 
   The point is simple: under a community policing philsophy, law enforcement agencies recognize the need for cooperation with the communities they serve. Each community has numerous resources that can be used with law enforcement to solve problems. 
   The Upper Midwest Community Policing Institute, which is funded in part by COPS, is working in partnership with the Minneapolis Police Department to provide outreach and training to the large Somalian community in the Cedar-Riverside neighborhood and the officers who serve them.  
   In the near future, this Institute will be exploring community policing applications to the problem of domestic violence. Importantly, the Institute is working closely with a large number of Tribal Law Enforcement agencies to provide training and technical assistance. This work has included helping to facilitate the white Earth Tribe and Mahnomen County agreement to resolve jurisdictional issues. COPS allowed this to happen. This Institute is an important piece of the COPS picture. It exemplifies the success of a law enforcement approach that is tailored to community needs. 
   The success of the COPS story goes on and on. COPS provided resources which allowed departments throughout Minnesota to upgrade technology and to redevelop the whole notion of community policing. 
   At the national level: The United States Conference of Mayors states that the COPS Program has been critical in the significant reduction in crime and that the nation's mayors always cite the COPS Program ``as a working example of what can be accomplished when red-tape is reduced to a minimum in favor of results-oriented programming''. The nation's mayors urge reauthorization of the program. 
   The COPS Program also is supported by the National Sheriffs' Association, The International Brotherhood of Police Officers, the National Association of Police Organizations, The Police Executive Research Forum, The National Troopers Coalition, The Major Cities Chiefs, and the International Association of Chiefs of Police. 
   Mr. President, why would we eliminate such a successful program? This is a time to build on our successes. This country needs additional resources to enhance crime fighting efforts. We need better communications systems in more communities to deter criminals, and to improve the ability of different jurisdictions to interact. We need to provide more communities with state of the art investigative tools like DNA analysis. We need to be able to target crime hot spots by making resources such as crime mapping available to more jurisdictions. We need new community based programs to ensure the safety of our school children. 
   The COPS amendment being offered today by Senators BIDEN and SCHUMER will enable us to continue the COPS Program which will expire next year. The amendment will support the hiring and training of up to 50,000 more cops over 5 years. It will support new technology to fight crime. It will provide funding for community prosecutors. The amendment puts cops in schools and supports partnerships between schools, law enforcement and the community. Communities and their students feel particularly vulnerable in the aftermath of the Littleton tragedy. It is important to continue our support of the dialogue between schools, law enforcement and the community so that communities can continue to fashion solutions to the problem of school violence. 
   This program has been a success over the last 5 years. It has benefited communities throughout this nation. It should be continued. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I was going to send an amendment to the desk. Might I ask my colleague from Indiana--I would like to hold my position on the floor, but I saw him--did he come to the floor with the intention of speaking or introducing an amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if Senator LUGAR came with the intention of offering the amendment, I was just trying to help Senator GREGG and Senator HOLLINGS move this along. 
   So might I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to follow Senator LUGAR with the next amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment that I offer, with the support of Senator MURRAY, is an amendment which is really based upon a piece of legislation we have introduced titled ``Children Who Witness Domestic Violence Protection Act.'' 
   We have come to the floor, Democrats and Republicans alike, and we have talked about the destructive effect of some of the violence that children see on television or children see at  the movies. Unfortunately, an awful lot of children see the most graphic violence in their homes, and they are affected by it. 
   It depends upon, really, whose study you put the most emphasis on, but somewhere between 3 million and 5 million children in our country all too often are essentially victims of violence in their homes. In about 50 percent of the cases, when a man batters a woman, the children are also battered. Just imagine, colleagues, what it would be like over and over and over again to see your mother beaten up, battered. Just think of the effect it would have on you. 
   Actually, this is an area in which I have tried to do a lot of work. I would say my wife Sheila has really been my teacher. She knows more than I do, and her education comes from what lots of people around the country who have worked in this area for a very long time have taught her. 
   But one of the missing pieces, which in no way, shape, or form takes away the emphasis on the effect of this violence on women--sometimes men; most all the time women--one of the missing pieces has been the effect of this violence in homes on the children. Let me give you some examples. 
   Julie is a 4-year-old girl. She was the only witness to her divorced mother's fatal stabbing. Several months earlier, at the time of the divorce, Julie's father had publicly threatened to kill his ex-wife. Although the father lacked an alibi for the night of the crime, there was no physical evidence linking him to the homicide. 
   In describing the event, Julie consistently placed her father at the scene and recounted her father's efforts to clean up prior to leaving. Only after the district attorney saw Julie stabbing a pillow, crying, ``Daddy pushed mommy down,'' did he become convinced that the father, indeed, was the murderer. 
   This is from the work of Jeff Edelson, who actually is a 
   Minnesotan and does some of the most important work in the country. There is no more graphic example of: What do you think the effect on the child is from seeing this? 
   Dr. Okin and Alicia Lieberman at San Francisco General Hospital are currently treating a 6-year-old boy who observed his father fatally sever his mother's neck. At the beginning of the treatment, he was unable to speak. 
   Jason, who did not visually witness his parents fighting, described hearing fights this way: ``I really thought somebody got hurt. It sounded like it. And I almost started to cry. It felt really, I was thinking of calling, calling the cops or something because it was really getting, really big banging and stuff like that.'' 
   These are voices of children in the country. 
   A lot of the work for this amendment comes from some people who have done very distinguished work in this country. 
   Betsy McAlster Groves at Boston Hospital is treating a 3-year-old girl, Sarah, who was brought in by her maternal grandmother. Sarah was having nightmares and was clinging and anxious during the day. Her mother had been fatally shot while Sarah was in the same room in their home. 
   A home is supposed to be a safe place for our children. 
   Betsy is also treating two boys, ages 5 and 7, whose mother brought them in after they witnessed their father's assault on her. The father was arrested over the weekend and was in jail. The mother was unable to tell the sons the truth, instead claiming that their father had taken a trip to Virginia. 
   What I am saying to you is that these children do not need to turn on the evening news. They do not need to see the violence in the movies or on television. It occurs right in their own homes. 
   What I am also saying is that this has a very destructive effect on many children, a profound effect, placing them at high risk for anxiety, depression, and, potentially, suicide. Furthermore, these children themselves may become more violent as they become older. Exposure to family violence, a good number of the experts in the country suggest, is the strongest predictor of violent, delinquent behavior among adolescents. It is estimated somewhere between 20 and 40 percent of chronically violent adolescents have witnessed extreme parental conflict. 
   It is an important point. When you talk to your judges, and they talk about some of the kids they are dealing with, they will tell you that in a very high percentage of the cases these children have come from homes where either they themselves have been beaten up or battered or they have seen it, they have witnessed it. Usually it is their mother they have seen beaten up. 
   Let me tell you about Tony and Sara from Minnesota. Tony is 10 years old and his sister Sara is 8. Tony and Sara were severely traumatized after seeing their father brutally attack their mother. They were forced to watch their father drag their mother out to the driveway, douse her with gasoline, and hold a flaming match inches from her. 
   Tony and Sara are not the only children in our country who are terrified by violence that they see on almost a daily basis. 
   This amendment, which is based upon work with Senator MURRAY, is a comprehensive first step toward confronting the impact of domestic violence on children. I just want to summarize it because it is my hope that there will be strong support for this on both sides of the aisle. 
   First of all, what we want to do, based upon, again, work we have seen in Minnesota, we have seen in Boston, we have seen in San Francisco, seen around the country, is we want to make sure we develop partnerships between the courts and the schools, the health care providers, the child protective services, and the battered women's programs. 
   When communities apply for funding, the first thing we are going to say is, yes, make this happen at the community level, but do not have different agencies with different mandates. You guys have to show us that you are focusing on these children and you are getting the support services to these children. 
   I say to my colleague from South Carolina, I have talked to many educators. They say one of the problems they have is that quite often they may have a child in school who is not doing well and they do not know what is going on with that child. And what they find out--and this is the second part of this amendment, training for school officials about domestic violence and its impact on children, making sure they have the training and the support services for the teachers and the counselors--many times these kids haven't slept at night. Many times these kids come to school terrified. Many times these kids act out themselves. Many times these kids are in trouble, and many times we don't know what is going on in their lives. 
   We have finally started to focus on this violence in homes, too much of it directed toward women. But if you talk to people around the country who are down in the trenches doing the best work, from the academics to the community activists, they will tell you the missing piece is we have not focused enough on the effects on the children. That is what this amendment does. 
   The third piece of this amendment addresses domestic violence and the people who work to protect our children from abuse and neglect. There is a significant overlap, obviously, between domestic violence and child abuse. In families where one form of family violence exists, there is a likelihood that the other does. In about 50 percent of the cases, if the mother is being battered, the child is being battered. So the problem is these child protective services and domestic violence organizations set up their own separate programs, yet few of them work together to see what is happening within families. 
   This amendment creates incentives for local governments to collaborate with domestic violence agencies in administering their child welfare programs. The funds will be awarded to States and local governments to work collaboratively with community-based domestic violence programs to provide training, to do screening, to assist child welfare service agencies in recognizing the overlap between domestic violence and child abuse, to develop protocols for screening, intake, assessment and investigation, and to increase the safety and well-being of the child witnesses of domestic violence. 
   I could go on for hours about this because, honest to God, it is a huge issue in our country. I wish it wasn't.  
   The second piece of this--and I will be through in 5 minutes--is supervised visitation centers. I have to explain this. Part of the problem is, even if you have a woman who has said: I am getti ng out of this home, or I am getting my husband out of this home; he is a batterer, and she finally is able to do it--it is not easy--and you have small children, the other parent, the noncustodial parent, usually the man, wants to see the children and should be able to under most circumstances. The problem is, at the time in which he comes to the home to pick up the children or drop the children off, the violence can occur again. There is no safety there. Or the problem is in some cases you are worried about what the father will do to the children. But a judge doesn't want to say: You can never see your children. And sometimes, as a result of that, the children are in real jeopardy. So the second part of this authorizes funding for supervised visitation centers. 
   These are visitation centers where there can be a safe exchange. 
   At the risk of being melodramatic, let me dedicate this amendment to 5-year-old Brandon and 4-year-old Alex, who were murdered by their father during an unsupervised visit in Minnesota. They were beautiful children. Their mother Angela was separated from Kurt Frank, the children's father. During her marriage, Angela was physically and emotionally abused by Frank, and Frank had hit Brandon and split open his lip when once he had stepped between the father and the mother to protect the mother. She had an order of protection--Shiela and I both know Angela; she is very courageous--against Kurt Frank, but 
   during the custody hearings, her request for the husband to only receive supervised visits was rejected. Kurt Frank murdered his two sons, these two children, during an unsupervised visit, and then he killed himself. 
   Honest to God, when there is some question about the safety of these children, we can do better. These safe visitation centers work. It makes all the sense in the world. These children's lives could have been saved. The father could have seen them, but it would have been under some supervision. That is the second part. 
   Third, the amendment recognizes the importance of police officers. This amendment comes from input from the law enforcement community around the country. What they are saying is: Quite often we are the ones who find the traumatized children behind the doors, beneath the furniture, in the closets, when we go to the homes. We want to know what we can do for these children. We would like to have the training. That is what this amendment provides for. 
   Then, finally, for crisis nurseries, it is important. A family is in crisis. The mother has two children dealing with an abusive relationship, trying to end the relationship. There is lots of tension in the home. There is the potential for violence. She wants to be able to take her child somewhere or her two children somewhere where they can be safe for one night or 2 days or 3 days. That is what these crisis nurseries do. They work well. 
   We have talked about the violence in the media. We have talked about the violence in the video games. But we rarely have dealt with the millions of children each year who are witnessing real-life violence in their homes. I believe we have to figure out ways to get the funding to the communities that will provide the support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wonder if we could do a modification right now--I will work it up in the next couple of minutes--where, as Senator DURBIN is saying, the police would automatically check off the observation that a child or the children are at home as a part of the form. Then, again, if you had it at the community level, that is where this has to happen--the real interface and cooperation with school officials, with child protective services, with health care, with law enforcement, with counselors in the school--the focus would be on the child. These children are falling between the cracks. 
   Mr. President, that would be an excellent idea. I will try to maybe work on a modification. I am sure my colleagues will allow me to do a technical correction later. 
   Altogether, this is an authorization for an appropriation, but it is authorization for $153 million a year for 3 years, which I think is not much to spend for what we can do. Later on, I know this gets resolved in the appropriations battle. I ask my colleagues whether they have a response. I can talk about this in more detail. I can go through the budget. I can talk about each specific program. But if you want to move along and you think this is something you can support, I would be very proud. I think it would be important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague I am pleased to do that. That will give us a chance to add the suggestion of Senator DURBIN, and if we need to debate later on, I can give lots of examples and debate the need for this. If my colleagues support it, that will be great. Let's wait and see what you think. We will temporarily lay this amendment aside. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Is there a copy we can look at? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am an active legislator. I ask the majority leader or Senator GREGG, I assume these are in addition to the amendment that has been laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I have had the opportunity to visit some detention facilities across our country and meet with correctional officers and also the incarcerated children and their parents. I am struck again and again by one fact: The mentally ill and the juveniles--the children, the kids--are particularly vulnerable to abuse and neglect in jails and prisons in our country. That is why I am offering this amendment that will give back to the Federal courts full authority to remedy abusive conditions but only under which the mentally ill and juveniles are being held. 
   Just 2 weeks ago, the Department of Justice released a report on the prevalence of mental illness among adult inmates in our jails and prisons. The Justice Department report merely confirms what many of us already know. The criminalization of mental illness is a national crisis. 
   Of particular concern to me have been the extraordinary problems children with mental illness and emotional disorders encounter in juvenile jails. That is why I introduced the Mental Health Juvenile Justice Act earlier this year. Of the 100,000 children who are arrested and incarcerated each year, as many as 50 percent suffer from a mental or emotional disturbance. 
   Jails and detention centers often find they are unprepared to deal with these kids. For instance, medication which should be given is not given; medication that should be properly monitored is not properly monitored; and guards may not even know how to respond to some of these kids. 
   Why do so many youth with mental illness end up in the juvenile justice system? The truth of the matter is, we ought to, on the front end, do a much better job of assessing the problems of these kids and, for those who should not be incarcerated--some should--but for those who should not be incarcerated, look to alternatives. 
   We have not invested as a country--you can talk to anybody down in the trenches doing this work--adequately in the service programs and community prevention programs that will reduce the need for incarceration. Therefore, many of these kids wind up in these facilities. They are incredibly vulnerable. They do not get the care they absolutely have to get, and the consequences are tragic. 
   Last year, as an example, I went with the National Mental Health Association to the Tallulah Correctional Center for Youth, a privately owned facility for over 600 youth in northeast Louisiana. I saw shocking civil rights violations which were cited by the U.S. Department of Justice. Basically what I am saying is, there were kids who were diagnosed with mental problems getting absolutely no treatment whatsoever. 
   The Justice Department has also exposed gross abuses in Georgia, Kentucky, and the juvenile facilities in Louisiana. Other States also experience similar problems. Investigators found cases of physical abuse and neglect of mental health needs, including unwarranted and prolonged isolation of suicidal children, hog-tie and chemical restraints used on youth with serious emotional disturbances, forced medication, and even denial of medication. 
   Children with extensive psychiatric histories who are prone to self-mutilation--cutting themselves with glass--never 
   even saw a psychiatrist. 
   In some cases, abusive treatment of these children results directly from their being emotionally disturbed. Staff in the juvenile facilities fail to recognize the problem and, in fact, punish these children for the symptoms of their disorders. Children have been punished for requesting treatment or put in isolation when they refuse to accept treatment. One child in a boot camp was punished for making involuntary noises that were symptoms of Tourette's syndrome. Mental disorders are being handled almost solely through discipline, isolation, and restraints, according to investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice and human rights groups. 
   Nobody likes litigation, but sometimes lawsuits are necessary to protect the constitutional rights of our people, especially vulnerable, voiceless persons such as incarcerated children who suffer from mental illness. That is what this amendment is about. 
   Because juveniles and mentally ill persons are particularly vulnerable to abuse and neglect in State institutions, I am offering tonight an amendment which will give back to Federal courts the authority to remedy abusive conditions under which juveniles with mental illness are being held. Regrettably, the Congress has taken steps in recent years to limit the circumstances under which lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of prison conditions can be brought. 
   Three years ago, this Congress passed the Prison Litigation Reform Act. Its sponsors claimed that the bill would merely end frivolous lawsuits by prisoners, and we all agree with that goal. I certainly do. But the terms of the PLRA were much more sweeping. It deprived Federal courts of important legal tools to remedy brutal, unconstitutional conditions in juvenile detention facilities throughout our country. 
   For example, the PLRA limited the power of Federal courts to impose and retain injunctive relief to improve conditions in juvenile facilities. This means that parties can no longer settle these lawsuits by means of a consent decree--a court-enforceable injunction entered into with agreement by the parties without admission of liability by a defendant. That is very important. Also, any relief order must be terminated by the courts 2 years after it is issued unless the court holds another trial. 
   One of the most important judicial powers that the PLRA curtailed was the appointment of special masters. Quite often judges will appoint special masters who will come in, do the mediation, do the negotiation, but we have  so limited the compensation that we are not able to do that. The act limited the powers of special masters so they can no longer perform this task of mediating disputes and assisting the parties in reaching some compliance with court orders. 
   While the PLRA has made it much more difficult for courts to improve inhumane conditions in prisons generally, it has had a devastating impact on the conditions in which mentally ill and juvenile defenders are held. They are particularly vulnerable to abuse and neglect at State institutions, and precisely because of that fact, we must not be indifferent to their plight or ignore their need for protection. 
   Let me give some examples. Just consider some of these horrific conditions involving mentally ill juveniles that PLRA has made more difficult to remedy: 
   In Philadelphia, children with mental illness in a juvenile detention facility operating at 160 percent of capacity were regularly beaten by staff with chains and other objects. Santiago v. Philadelphia. 
   In Delaware, juveniles with mental illness were housed in living units the court found posed a serious fire hazard. Their food and clothing were inadequate. Children were routinely beaten, maced, and shackled. The medical and education programs they received were below minimally accepted standards. These are facts. This is what is going on. John A v. Castle. 
   In a Pennsylvania-run juvenile facility, children were routinely beaten by faculty staff, staff trafficking in illegal drugs was rampant, and sexual relations between staff and confined youth were commonplace. DB v. Commonwealth. 
   A severely depressed 17-year-old in an adult prison in Texas was raped and sodomized. His request to be placed in protective custody was denied. For the next several months, he was repeatedly beaten by older prisoners, forced to perform oral sex, robbed, and beaten again. Each time, his requests for protection were denied by the warden. He attempted suicide by hanging himself in his cell after a guard had ignored the warning letter he wrote. He was in a coma for 4 months, after which he died. 
   The purpose of the Prison Litigation Reform Act was to reduce or eliminate frivolous lawsuits by inmates. I am all for that, but as these examples make clear--and I have many other examples--the inmates I seek to protect with this amendment are not filing frivolous lawsuits. Or I should say, what is happening to them is not the stuff of a frivolous lawsuit. They are young; they are uneducated; they are suffering from mental illness that prevent them from functioning at the necessary level to file a lawsuit on their own. This is a population of uniquely vulnerable inmates who need representation in the legal system and are not receiving that representation, who need the protection that the Federal courts have historically provided. 
   Unfortunately, this Congress seems to be moving, at least on the House side--and I pray we do not do the same thing--in the opposite direction. Just last month, the House adopted an amendment offered by Congressman DELAY to the juvenile justice bill that would actually terminate all consent decrees entered into prior to the passage of the Prison Litigation Reform Act. 
   The DeLay amendment would say that even when prison conditions were horrible enough to warrant the continuation of the consent decree, that decree is going to be terminated by an act of Congress. No matter how many children will suffer, the Federal judge's hands will be tied. 
   I think it is unconstitutional. Let me give a couple of examples and conclude, because if this amendment is agreed to tonight, this will negate the DeLay amendment in the House of Representatives. 
   In Ironton, OH, a 15-year-old girl ran away from home over night, then returned to her parents but was put in the county jail by the juvenile court judge to ``teach her a lesson.'' On the fourth night of her confinement, she was sexually assaulted by a deputy jailer. More than 500 children had been incarcerated in the jail over the past 3 years, many for truancy and other status offenses. Under the consent decree, no children may be held in the jail. But with what is happening in the House of Representatives, that consent degree would not even apply. 
   In Portland, ME, a lawsuit was filed after a young boy held in the county jail was sexually assaulted by an older adolescent. In 1987, county officials agreed to stop holding children in the jail because of another decree. 
   In Clovis, NM, children were held in the county jail in unsanitary conditions, without adequate fire safety procedures, recreation or programming, or adequate separation from adult inmates. In 1983, local officials agreed to stop using the jail as a detention facility for children. 
   The DeLay amendment would automatically terminate these decrees even if judges disagreed. This amendment would deal with this problem. 
   In Tucson, AZ, children in the juvenile detention center 
   were held in leather restraints, mail was censored, there were inadequate treatment programs, and the facility was overcrowded. Another consent decree provided for the protection of these children. 
   In Oklahoma, there was pervasive brutality in the operation of the State juvenile correctional institutions. Children were often handcuffed and hog-tied, and institutional staff relied on physical force and intimidation to keep order. The ``punishment unit'' was dark and dungeonlike. Another consent decree took care of that. 
   Again, this amendment I offer tonight is an effort to make sure what was done in the House will essentially be negated. 
   Mr. President, I will conclude. My amendment would not repeal, I say to my colleagues, the Prison Litigation Reform Act or adversely affect the crackdown on frivolous lawsuits. It would say that in the case of the mentally ill and juveniles, we should try to protect them. My amendment would merely carve a narrow exception to the PLRA restrictions in limited circumstances involving children and those who struggle with mental illness. 
   Elie Wiesel once said: ``More than anything--more than hatred and torture--more than pain--do I fear indifference.'' We must be vigilant and we must not allow ourselves to be indifferent to children's misery, particularly those children who may be sick, difficult, and test our patience and our understanding. In that spirit, I ask my colleagues to support this modest and humane exception. 
   This amendment has the support of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, the Children's Defense Fund, the Justice Policy Institute, the National Education Association, the National Network for Youth, The National Prison Project of the ACLU Foundation, The Shiloh Baptist Church, the Youth Law Center, and other organizations as well. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. GREGG addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I reserve the final 4 minutes of my time. I ask my colleague, I assume there are no second-degree amendments in order to this amendment; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I reserve the final 4 minutes of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, so Senator LEAHY can vote--I am very proud to have his support--I will add as an organization that supports this the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, and I yield back the remainder of my time. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I cannot add to the words of Senator DODD. I thank him for what he said on the floor of the Senate. And I say to him that what he said represents how I feel as a Senator from Minnesota. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that privileges of the floor be granted to Alexis Rebane during today's debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I thank the Senator from Massachusetts, the Senator from North Carolina, and the Senator from Oregon for their work on the floor of the Senate. 
   Mr. President, I say to Senator WYDEN from Oregon that I did not get a chance to hear his remarks on the floor of the Senate, but I think this whole question of whether or not doctors and providers can advocate for their patients and speak up when they think their patient is being denied care unfairly is extremely important. It is a little shocking, but it is really true that we all hear from doctors who tell us that they do not believe they can do that. They have no protection. They are worried about losing their jobs. 
   So I just say that if we are about being on the side of consumers, which I think is what we are about, Senator WYDEN's amendment is extremely important. 
   I will speak to another provision in this amendment which we actually have not discussed on the floor of the Senate. Of course, my fear is that Republicans will come out with a second-degree amendment and try to essentially wipe this amendment out. I wish--in fact, I would give up half of my 9 minutes if somebody from the other party would come down here; I would give up 4 and a half minutes just to get their other point of view, because the argument I am about to make goes as follows. 
   This is about ``points of service,'' which actually is about consumer choice. What we are saying in this provision is that if you are paying extra or  are willing to pay a little extra, you should have the choice to be able to stay with your doctor, to be able to go to the clinic to which you have been going. 
   For example--and this just drives people in Minnesota crazy--an employer may shift a plan, and then what will happen is, even though you have been taking your child or your children, or you yourself have been seeing the same doctor whom you trust, who knows you well, who knows your family well, all of a sudden you no longer can see them. 
   What we are saying is, don't the consumers and don't the families in Minnesota and Oregon and Massachusetts and Kentucky--all around the country--have some choice? My gosh, if people are willing to even pay a little extra in premium, how can anybody come out on the floor of the Senate and say they are not entitled to some continuity of care and some choice when it comes to being able to continue to see their doctor? 
   I can give a lot of examples. Let me simply go through the Republican proposal for a moment and then come back to some examples. 
   In the Republican proposal, only if the employer has 50 employees or more is there any discussion at all about any alternatives; and even there, it is two panels of providers. But two panels of providers does not make for choice. And if it is under 50 employees, there is no choice at all. 
   We have gone over this over and over again. For the 115 million people who are excluded, they do not have any protection whatsoever. 
   So again, the clock is ticking away. But if, in fact, any Republican wants to come and debate me, I would be pleased to give up my 4 minutes or 3 minutes or whatever. 
   Again, this is about choice. We are saying is that if you and your family have been seeing a doctor and going to a clinic for 5 or 6 or 7 years, if you have paid extra, and all of a sudden your employer shifts plans or your managed care plan narrows the number of doctors you can see, you ought to be able to continue to see your doctor, you ought to be able to continue to go to that clinic. 
   We have all had this experience of--well, maybe we have not; I have. You go into the hospital; you put on one of those gowns. I think I could become rich by coming up with an alternative gown that does not tie in the back, because it just makes you nervous 
   right away; you are very nervous, and you do not know what is going to happen to you. 
   You know what? It sure makes a difference if it is your family doctor who is there with you. It sure makes a difference if you have the sense that there is a doctor or a nurse or people from the clinic who have recommended you need to have the surgery who are there with you, who care about you, who know you, who love you. 
   I will say it again, consumer choice is what this amendment is about. How can the Republicans come to the floor of the Senate with a piece of legislation that they claim is patient protection and not give families this choice? If a family in Minnesota wants to pay or can pay a little more in premium to make sure that if their employer shifts plans they will be able to stay with their family doctor, or if you are an elderly citizen and you have Parkinson's you will be able to stay with your neurologist, or you have a child who is very ill with cancer you will be able to stay with your pediatric oncologist, I would think, for gosh sakes, we would want to allow a family to have that choice. 
   I do not want to hear my colleagues on the other side of the aisle talk about freedom of choice if they are going to come out here with a second-degree amendment that is going to wipe out this very important choice that this amendment says people and families should have in our country. 
   Mr. President, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I only have 3 minutes left, since we are in the last day of the debate, I want to try to pull this into focus, at least as a Senator from Minnesota. 
   I would like to say one more time, if you take, for example, this amendment--and I do not have the time to read it, this amendment has the support of the Patient Access Coalition with 134 members. Every kind of consumer organization, provider organization, children's organization, women's organization, and advocacy organization for people with disabilities, all are saying: Please make sure that families in this country have a choice and do not get cut off from seeing their doctor, do not get cut off from seeing a specialist who can really help them. 
   I see the same pattern in all of this. We have said we ought to cover all 165 million Americans. We shouldn't be covering 43 million Americans. We ought to have some standard of protection for all families in the country that States can build on. Republicans say no. 
   We say you ought to have a guarantee of access to specialists, if you need those specialists. There should be a panel in the plan. If there isn't a specialist in the plan to help you or a member of your family, you ought to be able to go outside the plan and receive that care. Republicans vote no. 
   Then we say, if you are denied care, there ought to be an appeals process. You ought to have a right to seek redress of grievance. When you do that, there ought to be an independent appeals process, and there ought to be some people you can go to. There ought to be some advocacy for consumers. On that strong consumer protection amendment, Republicans vote no and basically want to stop it. 
   I think the logic of this debate is clear. I have seen a little bit of confusion in a couple of articles. I do not believe this is about Senators who cannot sit down in the same room and agree with one another, and therefore, why can't they do that. What is wrong with them? 
   I think this is a very honest debate where you have two different definitions of what is good. I think we are talking about two different frameworks of self-interest and power. I think there is a reason that every single children's consumer and provider organization has supported our amendment and wants to see real patient protection. There is a very good reason why the insurance industry is the only interest that is supporting the Republican proposal. 
   It is because the Republican Party, the other side of the aisle in this debate, is marching lock, stock, and barrel with the insurance industry, and we are on the side of consumers and families. As Democrats, that is exactly where we should be. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, if I may, I ask unanimous consent that Sofia Lidskog be granted the privilege of the floor during the duration of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I came to the floor earlier today and said I have a proposition for my colleagues. It is this: Let's give people freedom of choice. If people have paid extra premiums and their employer should shift insurance company plan or managed care plan, and they want to be able to take their children to the same family doctor they have been going to for 10 years, they ought to be able to do so. 
   I waited for the response. 
   Now I notice my colleagues on the other side of the aisle come out here with an amendment and they say this deals with the problem. First of all, they give freedom of choice to 48 million Americans, one-third of those who would be eligible. Only 48 million people in self-insured plans are covered. Another 115 million people aren't covered. 
   Two-thirds of the families in our country that need some protection and need freedom of choice aren't covered. Then I look at this bill and I notice that even among the 48 million people, if you were in a plan where you are working for an employer with fewer than 50 employees, you would not be covered. Subtract that number of Americans. Now we are well below 48 million people, well below one-third of the citizens in this country. 
   Finally--and I don't even know what this means, but we need to look at the fine print--they have an exception in terms of points of service or freedom of choice:  
   It shall not apply with respect to a group health plan other than a fully insured group health plan if care relating to point of service coverage would not be available and accessible to the participant with reasonable promptness.  
   I have absolutely no idea what that means. Obviously, consumers and families would be going to a doctor who would be prompt in giving them or their children the care they need, unless this is some kind of an open-ended escape clause. 
   I am telling you, the more the people look at the fine print and the detail of what the Republicans are offering on the floor of the Senate, the more they will see a consistent pattern: Offer as little as possible, covering as few people as possible, with as little protection as possible, so you don't offend the insurance industry. 
   That is what it is all about. We should be representing the people in our States. We should be advocates for people in our States. We should be advocates for families, advocates for children. We don't need to be advocates for the insurance companies. They already have plenty of clout. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to submit a resolution that urges the Parliament of Kuwait, sometime during its upcoming session, to grant women the right to hold office and the right to vote. Real progress has been made in support of the democratic ideal of fuller participation for women in the political process there. The women of Kuwait enjoy many social and economic benefits, but have historically lacked one fundamental right: the right of political participation in their own country's emerging democracy. 
   I am proud to commend the Amir of Kuwait, His Highness, Sheikh Jaber al-Sabah, for his historic decision to issue a decree on May 16 to grant Kuwait women the right to vote and to hold office starting in 2003. Today in Kuwait, women lack the right to vote and to hold public office. All of this could change in the coming weeks when a newly-elected Parliament will vote to confirm or reject the Amir's decision. 
   Mr. President, the decision of the Amir, though it will be granted great weight by the Parliament, is not final. Such royal decrees must be confirmed by a parliamentary vote. Recently, the Amir dismissed Parliament in Kuwait for inactivity and on July 3 Kuwait voted for new leaders. Now the men Parliament will vote on whether to confirm the right to vote and to hold office for Kuwaiti women in the coming weeks. 
   I am also proud to say that a woman named Fatima al-Abdali, a courageous and passionate champion for women's rights in Kuwait, recently became one of the first women to announce that she is running for office in 2003. She is now one of at least seven women there who have announced that they will run for office for the first time. She has spent the last decade of her life fighting for the right to hold office and to vote. Her efforts have finally paid off with the Amir's recognition, as he has remarked, of ``the role played by Kuwaiti women in building and developing Kuwait society.'' 
   This is a truly historic moment in the Middle East. 
   It is only fitting, Mr. President, that Americans should be moved by the struggle of Kuwaiti women. The United States has been defined by great struggles for basic political rights: for the freedoms embodied in the Declaration of Independence and the Emancipation Proclamation; the freedom central to the major civil rights legislation of this century, and to the struggle of women in our own country to achieve the right to vote and the right to hold public office. Sojourner Truth and Susan B. Anthony were great heroines of this nation. They fought the fight in this country that is currently being waged in Kuwait. In memory of these crusaders for justice, I stand in strong support of Kuwaiti women. I know I speak for my home state of Minnesota and the entire country when I support the struggle being waged by the women of Kuwait. 
   Some people in the region are arguing that under Islamic tradition women should not have such political rights. Contrary to this opinion, many experts believe that Islam does not prohibit the right for women to vote and to hold public office. In fact, Islamic history is filled with prominent female figures. 
   Women in Kuwait are making great strides in business, government, education, and the media. A woman is the Rector of Kuwait University. The Under Secretary for Higher Education is a woman. A woman is the head of the Kuwait news agency. 
   Now we are seeing women move forward and make significant political strides as well. Armed with this Amiri decree, the women in Kuwait are becoming prepared to seize the opportunity they have fought for. They are announcing campaigns for office in 2003. I ask that the members of the new Parliament not turn their backs on history and vote against the Amiri decree allowing voting rights and the right to hold office. 
   I join the with leaders from across the world, including Egypt, Iran, Pakistan, and Indonesia in my admiration and respect for the importance of this development. I hope Kuwait's new Parliament will have the courage to take the historic step of affirming this decree.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I was going to hold up my own chart, but I would rather ask the Senator from Massachusetts, could you just give me the figures? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I enjoyed when you said: I just happen to have figures here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The reason I asked my colleague for those figures is, that is over half the State's population.  
   Minnesota does better than some other States in terms of the number of families that would be covered under the Republican plan because we have more people who are self-insured. 
   But let me just be clear about this. The Senator from 
   Massachusetts has made it clear that our amendment provides basic protection for every family in the country. We want some kind of floor. Any State that wants to do better, any State that wants to do better by way of protecting children, more access to specialty services, stronger consumer protection, can do so. But this amendment is an amendment to make sure that every family in the United States of America has some basic protection. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Let me just ask the Senator from Massachusetts one more question to finally put this debate in sharp focus--if we are going to have a debate. I do not know that we will. 
   Do you believe there is some correlation between the fact that the plan we now have on the floor of the Senate, the Daschle-Kennedy Democratic plan, altogether covers an additional 113 million people and the Republican plan only covers 48 million people altogether? The Republican plan provides as little coverage as possible to people. Is that why all the consumer organizations, all the provider organizations, doctors and nurses, support our plan and the insurance industry is the only interested party that supports the Republican plan? Do you believe there is any correlation on this whole question of how many people are covered? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would like to take 3 more minutes if I may. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is fine. That is all we have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will do it in 1 minute. Then I will pass it on to others. 
   Let me just finish my line of questioning by saying here on the floor of the Senate that one of the things I have been most interested in as a Senator from Minnesota is reform and how to revitalize democracy, how to make sure that the Government belongs to the people, how to make sure that the Senate belongs to the people. 
   I really do believe that this vote on this amendment about whether or not we are going to cover all the families in our country and provide them with some basic protection, so that they can make sure they themselves and their loved ones receive the care they need and deserve, is a test case as to whether or not we have a system of democracy for the many or democracy for the few. 
   This vote ultimately is about more than health care. This is a vote about whether the Senate belongs to people in Minnesota and people in Massachusetts and people in New York and people in North Carolina or whether it belongs to the insurance industry. It is that simple. 
   I hope every citizen will hold all of us accountable for how we vote and whom we represent and for whom we fight. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Before the Senator speaks, may I do two quick things? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that I follow Senator ROBB after we get back from caucuses, that I be first in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I did not rise to defend the Republican Party position. I am sorry to disappoint my colleagues. I say to the good Senator from Virginia, I am not here to speak against his amendment. 
   I do find it interesting. I do not think I can repeat with the same eloquence and power what my colleagues have said about what this debate is about in personal terms when we are talking about women. But we could also be talking about a child having to get access to the services he or she needs. This is really a life-or-death issue. It is very important for people to make sure their loved ones, whether it be a wife, a husband, or children, get the care they need and deserve. That is what this debate is all about. 
   I notice that the insurance industry is spending millions and millions of dollars on all sorts of ads talking about how we are going to have 1.8 million more people lose coverage. 
   All of a sudden, the insurance industry is concerned about the cost of health care insurance. All of a sudden, the insurance industry in the United States of America is concerned about the uninsured. My colleague from Massachusetts says: Where are our colleagues on the other side of the aisle? Not too long ago, just a couple of hours ago, I heard colleagues come out on the Republican side and talk about how this patient protection was too expensive, families would lose their insurance company, the poor insurance industry--which is making record profits--cannot afford to provide this coverage. Where are they now? 
   As I look at the figures, 10 leading managed care companies recorded profits of $1.5 billion last year. United Health Care Corporation, $21 million to its CEO; CIGNA Corporation, $12 million to its CEO; and the figures go on and on. Yet we have colleagues coming out to this Chamber--apparently not now--trying to make the argument, even though the Congressional Budget Office says otherwise, even though independent studies say otherwise, that we cannot provide decent patient protection for women because it will be too expensive. 
   It is not going to be too expensive. What will be too expensive and what will be too costly is when women and children and our family members do not get the care they need and deserve and, as a result of that, maybe lose their lives, as a result of that they are sicker, as a result that there is more illness. 
   Where do the patients fit in? Where do the women fit in? Where do the children fit in? Where do the families fit in? 
   I say to Senator KENNEDY, we know where the insurance industry fits in. Here are their ads: Sure, the Kennedy-Dingell bill will change health care; people will lose coverage. 
   This is outrageous. The insurance industry thinks that by pouring $100 million, or whatever, into TV ads and scaring people, they are going to be able to defeat this effort. They are wrong. The vote on this amendment, and on other amendments, and on this  legislation, will be all about whether Senators belong to the insurance industry or Senators belong to the people who elected us. We should be here advocating for people, not for the insurance industry. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will be very brief because we are anxious to get on with this debate. I want to add to the words of Senator KENNEDY. 
   This debate is a very personal debate for many of us, for both Democrats and Republicans. It is really heartbreaking to sit down with a family and talk to a father whose son was denied experimental treatment for cancer and wonders whether or not his son might have lived if he had been able to obtain that treatment. It is really disheartening to meet with a railroad worker whose wife talks to you about her husband and how he is fighting cancer but how every day she is on the phone battling these insurance companies to find out whether or not they will provide coverage for the treatment. 
   That is what this debate is really all about. I think that, by the end of the week, it is going to be really clear what the differences are between the two proposals. This Republican bill that is on the floor--the Daschle amendment--altogether covers 48 million people. But for those citizens who aren't working for a Fortune 500 company, who are small businesspeople, family farmers, and others, there is no patient protection. That is a huge difference. There is a huge difference between the 2 proposals of 115 million Americans. The Republican plan doesn't cover the 115 million Americans that the Democratic plan does. Quite often, I don't talk in terms of Democrat or Republican, but here it makes a difference. 
   Second of all, people are so desperate to make sure that if their child needs to see a pediatric oncologist, or a parent with Parkinson's needs to see a  neurologist, they will have access to that specialty care. The Republican plan does not guarantee that that will be the case. The Democratic plan makes it crystal clear to these managed care plans: Make sure you have those specialists available for people, and make sure that if it is not in your network, they will have access to whoever can provide the best care for their child or their parent. 
   Third is the question of consumer choice and continuity of care. 
   This Republican bill on the floor of the Senate, does not guarantee the continuity of care and doesn't give you the right, really even if you have to pay a little bit more in premium, to go outside the network of the managed care plan and take your child or your parents to the best expert or make sure your family members see the best specialist. This is called the point-of-service option. 
   I will have an amendment that deals with that. 
   Fourth, I heard my colleague from Maine speak about the appeals process. But, in all due respect, if people are not able to go to an independent, external appeal from these managed care plans dominated by these insurance companies and make sure that those independent panels are not picked by the companies, I don't call that independence. 
   The Republican plan has the external appeals process controlled and dominated by the very companies that you have a grievance against. 
   The Democratic plan provides for an independent appeals process backed by an ombudsman program that can help families. 
   I will conclude because there are other Senators who want to speak. 
   I think that this debate is all about representative democracy. 
   I think this debate goes far beyond the issues at hand, although I agree with my colleague from Massachusetts; I think this is the most important debate of our session. 
   This debate is all about whether or not the Senate belongs to the insurance companies of America or belongs to the people of Minnesota or Nevada or Massachusetts or North Dakota--the people around the country. That is what this debate is all about. 
   I look forward to debating into these specific amendments. I hope that people in the country will be engaged. 
   I say to all of my colleagues that I believe people will hold us accountable. 
   This is an opportunity to do well for people. This is an opportunity to provide families with some protection. This is an opportunity to be willing to stand up against some powerful economic interests--the insurance companies of America that dominate so many of these managed care plans--and be advocates for the people we represent back in our States. 
   Republicans, no matter what you call your plan--no matter what the acronym is--it is swiss cheese. You have too many loopholes in this plan. You don't provide protection for consumers. The people in Minnesota are not going to be in favor of an insurance company protection plan. They want it to be a Minnesota family protection plan. 
   That is what I am going to fight for all week. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that after the DeWine amendment, which comes after Y2K is dispensed with, I be able to bring my amendment to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think I follow Senator DEWINE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me, first of all, thank my colleagues for speaking on this. I actually will be very brief. I just want to make one point. 
   The Senator from Ohio is a good friend. We have worked together on many issues. I just see it a little differently. 
   I really do believe we are talking about a health benefit that the Federal employees have negotiated. This is a part of their package. It is the same thing as the salary they make. 
   What the Senate is trying to say to employees, or workers, is we are going to take away that benefit. We are going to take away your health benefit. From the point of view of a lot of working people and from the point of view of just thinking about it, from the point of view of employers and employees, I do not think that is what we should be doing. I do not think that is what we should be doing. I think it is a mistake in terms of what kind of respect we have for labor. I think it is a mistake in terms of the kind of respect we should have for employees. I do not think on the floor of the Senate we should try to take action to take away a benefit, a very 
   important benefit--access to abortion services--from Federal employees. I think that is a profound mistake. I hope my colleagues will vote against this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, not to take time, but I ask unanimous consent that Rachel Gragg and Ben  Highton, who are two fellows, be granted the privilege of the floor. I reserve the remainder of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Michelle Vidovic be able to be on the floor of the Senate for the rest of our proceedings tonight. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will we have a recorded vote on the conference report? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today because I am concerned that there is a growing national crisis in America. Although we do not know its exact dimensions, the early evidence is extremely troubling. 
   Nearly three years ago, against my objections, Congress passed and President Clinton signed the welfare reform law. The stated purpose of the law was to move people off welfare and toward economic self-sufficiency. 
   By now, we all know that the welfare caseloads have dramatically declined. The welfare caseloads are at their lowest point in nearly 30 years. Since welfare reform became law, 1.6 million families have left the welfare rolls. Approximately 4.6 million are no longer receiving cash assistance. Clearly, the law has been successful at moving people off welfare. On this basis, nearly everyone is jumping at the opportunity to proclaim welfare reform as a ``success.'' But, Mr. President, I have my doubts. How can we call welfare reform a success without knowing what has happened to these people after leaving welfare? How can we call it a success without knowing how people are doing? Mr. President, declining caseloads do not answer the fundamentally important questions. They don't tell us if families are moving toward economic self-sufficiency. They don't tell us if people have been able to escape poverty. They don't tell us if mothers have been able to find work. They don't tell us if children have food and are covered by health insurance. 
   Mr President to be honest, the declining welfare caseloads tell us very little. We should not be trumpeting the success of welfare reform before we know about the living conditions of the people who have been moved off welfare. And right now, no one seems to know. Over and over again I have asked my colleagues if they know of any research demonstrating that the decrease in the number of families receiving assistance means that people are escaping poverty, but no one has produced such a study. No one! 
   My fear is that these people are simply disappearing. 
   Mr. President, we've got a similar problem with the recent reports about Food Stamps. Lately we've been hearing a lot about the plunge in Food Stamp participation. Over the last four years the number of people using food stamps dropped by almost one-third, from 28 million to 19 million people. 
   Some want to interpret this decline as an indication of diminished need. But, just like the decline in welfare rolls, there are important questions that are left unanswered. I hope that the drop means that fewer people are going hungry. But, I have my doubts. 
   If people are no longer needy, then how can we account for the fact that 78 percent of cities surveyed by the United States Conference of Mayors for its Report on Hunger reported increases in requests for emergency food in 1998? 
   If people are no longer needy, then how can we explain why Catholic Charities USA reported early this year that 73 percent of dioceses had increases of as much as 145 percent in requests for emergency food assistance compared to a year before. 
   Mr. President, how can we account for these findings without questioning whether the reformers' claims of success are premature? 
   What is going on here? A story from the New York Times suggests one troubling explanation: 
   ``[One welfare recipient was told] incorrectly ..... that she could not get food stamps without welfare. So, though she is scraping by raising a family of five children and sometimes goes hungry, she has not applied [for food stamps]....... `They referred me to the food pantry,' she said. `They don't tell you what you really need to know. They tell you what they want you to know.'' (4/17/99). 
   Mr. President, I am here today to propose an amendment. It is an amendment that I hope will receive widespread support. It is simple and straightforward. It will help us find out how people who have left welfare are doing. It will provide us with the information we need in order to properly evaluate the success or failure of welfare reform. 
   Mr. President, the 1996 welfare law sets aside $1 billion for ``high-performance'' bonuses. Currently, the money is awarded to states using a formula that takes into account state effectiveness in increasing employment among TANF recipients. My amendment would add three more criteria: 
   Food stamp participation among poor children, 
   The proportion of families leaving TANF who are covered by Medicaid or child health insurance, and 
   The number of children in working poor families who receive some form subsidized child care. 
   In other words, states would have to provide this information in addition to the job entry, job retention, and earnings data they already must provide in their high-performance bonus applications. 
   Mr. President, some of my colleagues might suggest that these additional requirements will be too difficult for the states to meet. I will address this issue in detail in a little while. Right now, let me just reassure everyone that no state will be required to conduct any new surveys. In fact, no state will have to collect any new data. All that my amendment will require is that states report data they already have. 
   Mr. President, as I have already suggested, I am here today because of my deep concern for the millions of Americans who struggle each day to get by. These are the people who worry about: 
   How to keep a roof over their families' heads, How to get food in their children's stomachs, How to earn a wage that pays their bills, and How to obtain medical help when they are sick. 
   I am especially concerned about our nation's children who all too often are the innocent victims of poverty. 
   Mr. President, we live in the richest country in the world. We live in a country that has experienced what many call ``an unprecedented period of prosperity.'' But Mr. President, this prosperity has not extended to all families and their children. While our country is supposedly doing so well, we've got about 14 million--That's one in five--children who live in poverty. And, 6.5 million children live in extreme poverty. Their family income is less than one-half the poverty line. 
   This poverty has profoundly terrible consequences on the lives of these children. On the basis of research, we now know that poverty is a greater risk to children's overall health status than living in a single parent family. A baby born poor is less likely to be alive to celebrate its first birthday than a baby born to an unwed mother, a high school dropout, or a mother who smoked during pregnancy. 
   Mr. President, poor children must walk a gauntlet of troubles, that begin even before they are born and often last a lifetime. Not only are poor children more likely to die during childhood, they are: 
   More likely to have low birth weights and be born premature; More likely to be deaf; More likely to be blind; More likely to have serious physical or mental disabilities, and More likely to suffer from stunted growth. 
   Mr. President, I am worried that welfare reform is making these problems worse. I think that we really need to pay attention to the quality of people's lives not just to the numbers of people on assistance. 
   Mr. President, the purpose of my amendment is to help us to understand at a national level what is happening in our country in the wake of welfare reform. I've spent a lot of time trying to figure this out and have come to the conclusion that what we currently know is not sufficient. I am not alone in this belief. One of the organizations I work is called NETWORK. It's a National Catholic Social Justice lobby. The people at NETWORK wrote the following in their recent report on welfare reform:  
   Even though government officials are quick to point out that national welfare caseloads are at their lowest point in 30 years, they are unable to tell us for the most part what is happening to people after they leave the welfare rolls--and what is happening to people living in poverty who never received assistance in the first place.  
   Mr. President, although we lack a national portrait, some of the research I read about what is going on in the states deeply concerns me. 
   For example: In Alabama, a professor found that intake workers gave public assistance applications to only 6 out of 27 undergraduate students who requested them, despite state policy that says that anyone who asks for an application should get one. 
   In Arizona, after holding fairly steady from 1990 to 1993, the number of meals distributed through Arizona's statewide food-charity network has since risen 50 percent. 
   In California, tens of thousands of welfare beneficiaries are dropped each month as punishment. In total, half of those leaving welfare are doing so because they did not follow the rules. 
   In Florida, more than 15,000 families left welfare during a typical month last year. About 3,600 reported finding work, but nearly 4,200 left because they were punished. The state doesn't know what happened to almost 7,500 others. 
   In Georgia, nearly half of the homeless families interviewed in shelters and other homeless facilities had lost TANF benefits in the previous 12 months. 
   In Iowa, 47 percent of those who left welfare did so because they did not comply with requirements such as going to job interviews or providing paperwork. And in Iowa's PROMISE JOBS experiment, the majority of families punished for failure to meet welfare-to-work requirements told researchers that they didn't understand those requirements. 
   In my own State of Minnesota, care managers found that penalized families were twice as likely to have serious mental health problems, three times as likely to have low intellectual ability, and five times more likely to have family violence problems when compared with other recipients. 
   In the Mississippi Delta, workfare recipients gather at 4 a.m. to travel by bus for two hours to their assigned work places, work their full days, and then return--another two hours--home each night. It is no surprise, therefore, that they are having trouble finding child care during these nontraditional hours, and for such extended days. 
   In New York, a September 1998 survey found that 71 percent of former recipients who last received TANF in March 1997 did not have any employer-reported earnings. 
   In a rural Appalachian community in Ohio, there is a lack of jobs at decent wages that has resulted in dramatic increases in requests for food. The Congressional Hunger Center tells us that, ``As people are being moved off of the rolls in rural areas, there is very little support structure to help them become self-sufficient--government programs are unavailable due to time limits, there is little private industry in the area, and neighbors struggle to get by on their own.'' 
   And then there is the so-called success story in Wisconsin. Only one in four families that permanently leave welfare have incomes above the poverty line. The typical recipient actually lost income during the year after leaving welfare. Only one in three of those who left welfare increased their economic resources. In La Crosse, Wisconsin, the number of children sleeping in Salvation Army homeless shelters shot up by 50 percent between 1994 and 1996. In contrast, the number of homeless men--a group that is largely unaffected by welfare changes--rose by only one percent during the same period. And, a recently released study by the Institute for Wisconsin's Future says that the number of families in extreme poverty jumped from about 1,700 in 1989 to 11,200 in 1997. 
   Mr. President, clearly we need to be careful about pronouncing welfare reform a ``success'' simply because the caseloads are down. People are continuing to suffer and struggle to meet their basic needs. 
   Mr. President, I have already discussed the dramatic decline in welfare caseloads. Let me remind everyone that the caseload decline has not been matched by a similar decline in poverty indicators. 
   I think we need to know, on a national level, what's going on. The research we do have suggests that moving people off of welfare is not having the intended effect of putting them on the road to economic self-sufficiency. 
   The NETWORK study reports that people continue to experience severe hardship. For example: 
   Nearly half of the respondents report that their health is only ``fair'' or ``poor.'' 43% eat fewer meals or less food per meal due to cost. 52% of soup kitchen patrons are unable to provide sufficient food for their children. Even the working poor are suffering as 41% of those with jobs experienced hunger. 
   Mr. President, NETWORK is not the only group out there trying to find out what is going on. In another study, seven local agencies and community welfare monitoring coalitions in six states compared people currently receiving welfare to those who stopped getting welfare in the last six months. 
   The data show that people who stopped getting welfare were: 
   Less likely to get food stamps; Less likely to get Medicaid; More likely to go without food for a day or more; More likely to move because they couldn't pay rent; More likely to have a child who lived away or was in foster care; More likely to have difficulty paying for and getting child care, and; More likely to say ``my life is worse'' compared to six months ago. 
   The National Conference of State Legislatures' analyzed 14 state studies with good information about families leaving welfare. It found:  
   Most of the jobs [that former recipients get] pay between $5.50 and $7 an hour, higher than minimum wage but not enough to raise a family out of poverty. So far, few families who leave welfare have been able to escape poverty.  
   And then there is the recent study by Families USA, which presents a very troubling set of findings. It reports:  
   over two-thirds of a million low-income people--approximately 675,000--lost Medical coverage and became uninsured as of 1997 due to welfare reform. The majority (62 percent) of those who became uninsured due to welfare reform were children, and most of those children were, in all likelihood, still eligible for coverage under Medicaid. Moreover, the number of people who lose health coverage due to welfare reform is certain to grow rather substantially in the years ahead. 
   Mr. President, sometimes with all these numbers and studies we lose sight of the fact that they are based on the lives of real people--people who want the best for themselves and their children. But, we must not forget this reality. 
   Here is the story of one family that one of the Sisters in the NETWORK study workeed with:  
   Martha and her seven year-old child, David, live in Chicago. She recently began working, but her 37-hour a week job pays only $6.00 an hour. In order to work, Martha must have childcare for David. Since he goes to school, she found a sitter who would receive him at 7 a.m. and take him to school. This sitter provided after school care as well. When Sister Joan sat down with Martha to talk about her finances, they discovered that her salary does not even cover the sitter's costs.  
   The Families USA Report tells us the following story: 
   Terry (This is not her real name)  
   had been on welfare for about two years when she got a job at McDonald's. Working 30 hours a week, Terry earned $600 a month. When she told her welfare caseworker about her new job, Terry and her 5-year-old son, James, were cut off of cash assistance and Medicaid. Her Food Stamps stopped, too, although she was promised they would continue. When Terry left welfare for work, no one told her that she was eligible for Transitional Medicaid. And her son James should have continued to receive Medicaid until Terry earned at least $1,200 a month--twice as much as she made at her job at McDonald's.
   Mr. President, these three cases I just mentioned are about families where a parent is working. There is an even scarier situation--families that neither receive government assistance  nor have a parent with a job. We don't know for certain how large this population is, but in the NETWORK study 79% of the people were unemployed and not receiving welfare benefits. Of course this study was focused on the hardest hit and therefore overestimates the overall percentage of former recipients who are unemployed. But, it still represents a 50% increase over the level it found before welfare reform. 
   How are these families surviving? Mr. President, I am deeply concerned and worried about them. They are no longer receiving aid and they don't have jobs. They are literally falling through the cracks and disappearing. I call these families, which are composed primarily of women and their children, The Disappeared Americans. 
   We must find out what is going on. That is why this amendment is so important. It will provide us with valuable information we need in order to be responsible policymakers. 
   Mr. President, this is not the first time I have come to the floor of the US Senate to offer an amendment designed to find out what is happening to poor people in this country. Last month I offered a similar amendment and it lost by one vote. Although 50 Senators voted against it, not one spoke in opposition. Not a single Senator rose to debate me on the merits of the measure. At that time, I promised and I would return to the Senate floor with the amendment, and today I am fulfilling my promise. 
   Since I first offered the amendment, we have received some valuable input about the best way to gather the kind of data we need to understand on a national level what is going on. In the original amendment, states would have been required to conduct new studies to track all former TANF recipients. In the version of the amendment I offer today, states can simply rely on administrative data that they already collect. For example, in order to provide Medicaid and child health insurance data, states would just have to do a match between their TANF and Medicaid/CHIP computer systems. And, if states choose not to apply for the TANF bonus money, they would only need to provide data on a valid sample of former recipients, not the entire population. 
   In other words, Mr. President, we have reworked the amendment to make it significantly less burdensome of the Secretary of HHS and the states. Frankly, with these changes, I don't see a reason why anyone would vote against this amendment. If there is going to be opposition, I expect that we will have a debate. Let's identify our differences and debate them. 
   Mr. President, let me wrap things up by reminding us all that it is our duty and our responsibility to make sure that the policies we enact for the good of the people actually are doing good for them. Evaluation is one of the key ingredients in good policy making and it does not take a degree in political science to realize what anyone with common sense already knows: When you try something new, you need to find out how it works. 
   As policy makers--regardless of our ideology or intuitions--it is our role to ensure that the programs we enact to provide for American families' well-being are effective and produce the outcomes we intend. 
   We need to know what is happening with the families who are affected by welfare reform. We need to know whether reform is, in fact, effectively helping low income mothers and their children build a path to escape poverty and move toward economic self-sufficiency. 
   As I have already explained, the data we do have does not provide us with all the information we need. We need to go beyond simply assuming that welfare and food stamp declines are ``good'' news. 
   The Swedish sociologist Gunnar Myrdal once said, ``Ignorance is never random.'' Sometimes we choose not to know what we do not want to know. In the case of welfare reform, we must have the courage to find out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today, I am introducing the Children Who Witness Domestic Violence Protection Act. My legislation, which I am joined by Senator MURRAY in offering today, is a comprehensive first step towards confronting the impact that witnessing domestic violence has on children. This bill addresses the issue from multiple perspectives, including mental health, education, child protection services, supervised visitation centers, law enforcement, and crisis nurseries. 
   There are many facets to the serious problem we have with violence in our country. The evening news brings violent images from around the world into our homes every day. We also witness through various media the violent images or hear stories of violence that has occurred in our own communities and in our schools like Columbine High. 
   Images of violence bombard our children from the movies, video games, or from television programs. But there is a type of violence in the lives of America's children that is not in the spotlight. Increasingly, children are witnessing real-life violence in their homes. In fact, it is in their own homes that many children witness violence for the first time. 
   Over 3 million children are witnessing violence in their homes each year, and it is having a profound impact on their development. 
   Frequently, these children are physically injured by the violence. But always, they carry with them lasting emotional sears from having been exposed to the threat and trauma of injury, assault or killing. This exposure to domestic violence changes the way children view the world. It may change the value they place on life itself. It affects their ability to learn, to establish relationships, and to cope with stress. 
   Witnessing domestic violence has such a profound impact on children, placing them at high risk for anxiety, depression, and, potentially, suicide. Further, these child victims may exhibit more aggressive, antisocial, and fearful behaviors. They are also at greater risk of becoming future offenders. 
   Studies indicate that children who witness their fathers beating their mothers suffer emotional problems, including slowed development, sleep disturbances, and feelings of helplessness, depression and anxiety. Many of these children exhibit more aggressive, anti-social, fearful and inhibited behaviors. They also show lower social competence than other children. 
   Children from homes where their mothers were abused have also shown less skill in understanding how others feel and in examining situations from the other's perspective when compared to children from non-violent households. Even one episode of violence can produce post-traumatic stress disorder in children. 
   Exposure to family violence, many studies suggest, is the strongest predictor of violent delinquent behavior among adolescents. It is estimated that between 20 and 40 percent of chronically violent adolescents have witnessed extreme parental conflict. 
   Recent studies have demonstrated that up to 50% of children who come before the juvenile dependency court on allegations of abuse and neglect have been exposed to domestic violence in their homes. 
   In a Justice Department funded study of children in Rochester, NY, children who had grown up in families where domestic violence occurred were 21 percent more likely to report violent 
   delinquency than those not so exposed. Children exposed to multiple forms of family violence reported twice the rate of youth violence as those from nonviolent families. 
   A 1994 survey of 115 mothers in the waiting room of Boston City Hospital's Primary Care Clinic found that by age 6, one in ten children had witnessed a knifing or shooting. An additional 18 percent of the children under six had witnesses pushing, hitting or shoving. Half of the reported violence occurred in the child's home. 
   Many children actually see their father, stepfather, or mother's boyfriend  not only beat their mothers but rape them as well. Although some parents believe that they succeed in shielding their children from the batterer's aggression, children often provide detailed accounts of the very events which adults report they did not witness. Reports by children and by adults of their memories of childhood experience indicate that parents severely underestimate the extent to which their children are exposed to violence. 
   Children who witness domestic violence are traumatized and need support. Who is a child going to turn to when their mother is the victim of their father? Who is a child going to talk to when their sibling has emotionally shut down and no longer speaks? Who is a child going to go to for help when they need assistance? 
   Children have the right to know that what is happening in their home is wrong. Children have the right to feel that we are about their safety.' 
   This bill addresses the issue from multiple perspective including mental health, education, children protection services, supervised visitation centers, law enforcement, and crisis nurseries. 
   There are some creative programs in this country that are forging partnerships in their communities to meet the needs of traumatized children. I have visited such programs in Boston, San Francisco and Minnesota. 
   More must be done. 
   To address the devastating impact that witnessing domestic violence has on the mental health of children, my legislation provides nonprofit agencies with the funds needed to design and implement multi-system interventions for child witnesses. This partnerships would involve the courts, schools, health care providers, child protective services, battered women's programs and others. Promoting collaboration and coordination among all the professionals involved can broaden the community's response to the child. 
   This response would include developing and providing: Guidenace to evaluate the need of child witnesses; safety and security procedures for child witnesses and their families; counseling and advocacy for families of child witnesses; mental health treatment services; and outreach and training to community professionals. 
   My legislation also encourages collaboration between domestic violence community agencies and schools to provide educational programming and support services for students and staff. Domestic violence agencies will work with schools to provide: Training for school officials about domestic violence and its impact on children; educational programming and materials on domestic violence for students; and support services, such as counselors, for students and school officials. 
   Among the many detrimental impacts of witnessing domestic violence, children exposed to domestic violence are at high risk for learning difficulties and school failure. Research indicates that children residing in shelters show significantly lower verbal and quantitive skills when compared to children nationally. These deficits, when coupled with the impact on children's behavioral and emotional functioning, demand that schools be able to understand and address the needs of children who have witnessed domestic violence. Further, service providers continue to find that 
   the occurrence of domestic violence could be detected sooner if various points of contact with the family had been better trained to recognize the indicators of such family violence. 
   Children cannot always compartmentalize traumatic events--instead the domestic violence comes to school with each and every child witness. It undermines their school performance, and their relationship with other children. 
   This legislation also addresses domestic violence and the people who work to protect our children from abuse and neglect. There is a significant overlap between domestic violence and child abuse. In families where one form of family violence exists, there is a likelihood that the other does, too. In a national survey, researchers found that 50 percent of the men who frequently assaulted their wives also frequently abused their children. 
   The problem is that Child Protective Services and domestic violence organizations have separately set up programs to address one of these forms of violence, yet few address both when they occur together in families. My bill creates incentives for local governments to collaborate with domestic violence agencies in administering their child welfare programs. 
   Under my legislation, funds will be awarded to States and local governments to work collaboratively with community-based domestic violence programs to: Provide training to the staff, supervisors, and administrators of child welfare service agencies and domestic violence programs, including staff responsible for screening, intake, assessment, and investigation of reports of child abuse and neglect; assist agencies in recognizing that the overlap between child abuse and domestic violence places both children and adult victims in danger; develop relevant protocols for screening, intake, assessment, investigation, and interventions; and increase the safety and well-being of child witnesses of domestic violence as well as the safety of the non-abusing parent. 
   Another important part of my legislation is funding to increase the availability of supervised visitation centers. Since domestic violence often escalates during separation and divorce, and visitation is frequently used as an opportunity for abuse, this provision is designed to shield children from further exposure to violence. It creates a grants program which domestic violence service providers can apply for on a competitive basis to create family visitation centers. Use of these centers can minimize stressful and potentially dangerous interactions among family members. In addition, the centers provide judges with a further tool to deal with problematic visitations when there has been a history of violence. 
   On July 3, 1996 5 year old Brandon and 4 year old Alex were murdered by their father during an unsupervised visit. Their mother Angela was separated from Kurt Frank, the children's father. During her marriage, Angela was physically and emotionally abused by Frank, and Frank had hit Brandon and split open his lip when he stepped in front of his mother during a domestic violence incident. Angela had an Order of Protection against Kurt Frank, but during custody hearings her request for her husband to only receive supervised visits was rejected. Kurt Frank murdered his two sons during an unsupervised visit. We must do better for the 3 million children witnesses still living out there. 
   Law enforcement officers are those who find traumatized children hiding behind doors, beneath furniture, in closets. They are generally the first to arrive and their ability to recognize and address the needs of the children is critical. 
   This bill provides further training to law enforcement officers regarding the appropriate treatment of children who have witnessed domestic violence. Police officers will be trained in child development and issues 
   related to domestic violence so that they may: Recognize the needs of children who have witnessed domestic violence; meet children's immediate needs at the scene of the crime; and establish a collaborative working relationship between police officers and local domestic violence service agencies. 
   Families faced with domestic violence also need a safe place for their children during times of crisis. 
   This legislation provides funds to States to assist private and public agencies and organizations to provide crisis nurseries for children who are abused, neglected, at risk of abuse or neglect, or who are in families receiving child protective services. Nurseries will be available to provide a safe place for children and to alleviate the social and emotional stress among children and families impacted by domestic violence. 
   In conclusion, we must pass this legislation for children who are traumatized by what they have seen. We must pass this legislation for children like Brandon and Alex who deserve to have our protection from harm. 
   Please join me in the protection of children who witness domestic violence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Robin Goodman and Howard Kushlan, who are interns in my office this summer, and John Bradshaw, who is a fellow, be granted the privilege of the floor during the debate on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be laid aside. I say to my colleague from Kentucky, I will speak on an amendment I am going to offer just to save us time so we can move along today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today I will discuss one of the most horrendous human rights violations of our time--the trafficking of human beings, which is particularly prevalent among women and children, for the purposes of sexual exploitation and forced slavery. 
   Earlier this year, I introduced a bill, the International Trafficking of Women and Children Victim Protection Act of 1999, which addresses this issue. This legislation was cosponsored by Senators FEINSTEIN, BOXER, SNOWE, MURRAY, HARKIN, and TORRICELLI. 
   Today I am going to offer an amendment, which I will send to the desk shortly, to the foreign ops bill, which is basically this piece of legislation. If adopted, this amendment will put the Senate on record as opposing trafficking for forced prostitution and domestic servitude and acting to check it before the lives of more women and more girls are shattered. 
   Trafficking in human beings is one of the fastest growing international trafficking businesses. Women and girls seeking a better life, a good marriage, a lucrative job abroad, unexpectedly find themselves forced to work as prostitutes or in sweat shops. Seeking this better life, they are lured by local advertisements for good jobs in foreign countries at wages they could never imagine at home. 
   Every year, the trafficking of human beings for the sex trade affects hundreds of thousands of women throughout the world. That is hard to believe. Every year the trafficking of women and girls for sex trade affects hundreds of thousands of women or, for that matter, girls throughout the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I see my colleague from Illinois. I have another amendment that I could introduce, but for now, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I wonder whether or not before colleagues speak, I could just send this amendment, the second amendment, to the desk so it is filed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, with my colleagues' indulgence, I ask unanimous consent that I may follow the Senator for no more than 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will shortly send a modified amendment to the desk. In the time I have, let me speak on a topic I think is related to this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I send my modified amendment No. 1123 to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I send the modification to the desk. I thank both Senator LEAHY and Senator MCCONNELL for their support. This is the first time we are going to have such a report. It is going to be very important to the human rights community and the law enforcement community. It will have a stigmatizing effect on countries involved in this, and it is going to make a huge difference from the point of human rights. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this past Saturday was the 2nd annual U.N. International Day in Support of Torture Victims and Survivors. The practice of torture is one of the most serious human rights abuses of our time. According to Amnesty International, torture conducted by government security forces, or that is condoned by other government officials occurs in at least 120 countries today. We need look no farther than today's headlines about Turkey, Iraq, Kosovo, China and Ethiopia to know that we will be dealing with the problems that torture victims face for many years. 
   We can and must do more to stop such horrific acts of torture, and to treat its victims. Focusing on treatment and rehabilitation for torture survivors is one of the best ways we can manifest our concern for human rights worldwide. As our recent intervention in Kosovo to stop a humanitarian crisis demonstrates, both the United States and the international community have become aware of the need to prevent these human rights abuses and to punish the perpetrators when abuses take place. Yet, too often we have failed to address the needs of the victims after their rights have been violated. The treatment of torture victims must be a central focus of our efforts to promote human rights. 
   This commitment to protect human rights is one shared by many around the world. In 1984 the U.N. approved the United Nations Convention Against Torture. The U.S. Senate ratified it in April of 1994. And just last year the Congress enacted the Torture Victims Relief Act which authorizes funds for treatment services for victims of torture in the United States and abroad. I was pleased to learn that last week the Senate Committee on Appropriations recommended that the funds authorized by the act be appropriated in full in the foreign operations appropriations bill. Under this recommendation, AID will provide $7.5 million to support foreign treatment centers and the U.S. will contribute $3 million to the U.N. Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture. I hope this recommendation makes it through to the final bill which goes to the President. While these are significant achievements, we must focus on what more needs to be done. 
   In many countries torture is routinely employed in police stations to coerce confessions or obtain information. Detainees are subjected to both physical and mental abuse. Methods include beatings with sticks and whips; kicking with boots; electric shocks; and suspension from one or both arms. Victims are also threatened, insulted and humiliated. In some cases, particularly those involving women, victims are stripped, exposed to verbal and sexual abuse. Medical treatment is often withheld, sometimes resulting in death. 
   The purpose of torture is intimidation and the total destruction of an individual's character. Torture impacts on humanity in profound ways. The shattering of lives, dispersing of families, and destruction of communities all result from this politically-motivated form of violence. The destruction of people's humanity, cultures, and traditions are often the result for both the torturer and the victim of torture. 
   Treating torture victims must be a much more central focus of 
   our efforts as we work to promote human rights worldwide. Without active programs of healing and recovery, torture survivors often suffer continued physical pain, depression and anxiety, intense and incessant nightmares, guilt and self loathing. They often report an inability to concentrate or remember. The severity of trauma makes it difficult to hold down a job, study for a new profession, or acquire other skills needed for successful adjustment into society. 
   Friday morning I met with Sister Dianna Ortiz and several other torture survivors courageous enough to share their stories. They related to me horrific tales of family displacement, sexual abuse, and mental and physical humiliation. Mr. Feltavu Ebba, a survivor from Ethiopia told me his horrific tale of torture he received solely based on his ethnic identification. He said:  
   I was locked up in a room 4 meters by 4 meters with more than 50 other prisoners. I was not allowed to see my family and relatives for the first six years.  
   Needless to say, the damage done to his relationship with his children can never be repaired. Also, every minute of his existence in prison was wrought with emotional and physical pain. He said:  
   Again after three years of prison in 1982 I was physically and mentally tortured for a week ..... This time by dipping me head-  down in a barrel filled with cold, dirty water and beating under my feet with interwoven electrical wire.  
   Another survivor, Monica Feria, told me of her torture in Peru. Rather than attempt to speak on her behalf, I will let her words speak for themselves.  
   We ran for our lives through the ducts that took us to another prison where the male prisoners accused of belonging to the Shining Path were kept. On the way many of us were shot. While crawling I saw bodies that had been blown up, arms, heads, and blood. Everything was covered with that horrible colour of burnt black. As I crawled avoiding the bullets I felt under me dead bodies still warm. The horror .....  
   This is only a fraction of the horrific episodes relayed to me by these courageous survivors. Just last week the New York Times quoted the Human Rights Watch organization as being distressed at the continued prevalence of torture worldwide. 
   In Minnesota, we began to think about the problem of torture and act on it, over ten years ago. The Center for Victims of Torture in Minneapolis is the only fully-staffed torture treatment facility in the country and was one of the first in the world; there are now over 200 centers worldwide. The center offers outpatient services which can include medical treatment, psychotherapy and help gaining economic and legal stability. Its advocacy work also helps to inform people about the problem of torture and the lingering effects it has on victims, and ways to combat torture worldwide. The Center has treated or provided services to hundreds of people over the last ten years. 
   Some of the often shrill public rhetoric these days seems to argue that we as a nation can no longer afford to remain engaged with the world, or to assist the poor, the elderly, the feeble, refugees, those seeking asylum--those most in need of aid who are right here in our midst. The Center for Victims of Torture stands as a repudiation of that idea. Its mission is to rescue and rehabilitate people who have been crushed by torture, and it has been accomplishing that mission admirably over the last ten years. It is a light of hope in the lives of those who have for so long seen only darkness, a darkness brought on by the brutal hand of the torturer. 
   I would like to thank the distinguished human rights leaders who have helped me in this fight, including those at the Center for Torture Victims in Minneapolis and others such as Sister Ortiz, the Torture Abolition and Survivors Support Committee (TASSC), the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, and those in the human rights community here in Washington and in Minnesota. Without their energy and skills as advocates for tough U.S. laws which promote respect for internationally-recognized human rights worldwide, the cause of human rights here in the U.S. would be seriously diminished. I salute them today. We recommit ourselves to the aid of torture survivors, and to building a world in which torture is relegated to the dark past, and in which torture treatment programs are made obsolete. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague from North Carolina has 3 minutes. I wonder if he can speak, and I ask unanimous consent I follow him and Senator BOXER follow me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Let me just thank the Senator from North Carolina. Having been an undergraduate at the University of North Carolina, having done my doctorate work there, having had two children born in Chapel Hill, and having known Chancellor Hooker, I am also very sorry to hear of his death--a very young man. It is really a loss for North Carolina and the country. I appreciate the Senator's eloquence. 
   There are other Senators on the floor, so I am going to try to be brief and take only an hour or so--less than that, much less than that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, coming from an agricultural State, I just want to, as I think Richard Nixon would say, make one thing ``perfectly clear'' about agriculture. 
   Senator DORGAN is right on the mark when he makes the point. It is sort of an inside thing, but it is very important to the outsiders, especially to farmers, and not just to farmers but to those of us who come from farm States. If yesterday the majority leader had been successful on the cloture vote, we would not have been able to bring this amendment to the floor on this ag bill that calls for an additional $6.5 billion of assistance. 
   Let me just say that this ag appropriations bill that just funds existing USDA programs will not do the job. Let me also say, in my State of Minnesota, and I will not talk about a lot of statistics that I could talk about farm income having dropped 40 percent over the last several years. I could talk about this last decade where farmers have been wondering why they see a 35-percent drop in price, and yet the consumer price goes up while the farm-retail spread grows wider and wider between what farmers make and consumers pay. We want to know what is going on. Let me just tell you, in my State there are a lot of broken lives and a lot of broken dreams and a lot of broken families. 
   Let me also just simply say that time is not neutral; time moves on. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. If we do not get this additional assistance to farmers, much of it directly related to income loss because of record low prices, then a lot of farmers are not going to be able to live to farm another day. 
   We have to get this assistance to farmers. It has to be in this ag appropriations bill. I will tell you something. I do not even like coming out here and fighting for additional bailout for farmers or additional credit assistance, because most of the farmers in North Carolina and Minnesota, and around the country, are not interested in bailout money. They are interested in being able to get a decent price. That's what they are interested in. 
   Let me go on. Let me say, again, this appropriations bill will be an appropriations bill that will really help. This amendment calls for this additional $6.5 billion in assistance. 
   Second point: I do not know what the press conference was about here in Washington. I was back home with a lot of farmers. There were a lot of people from all around the State who came together for a gathering at the capital. But I will tell you this. I hope that some of the folks who held the press conference also talked about how we can make sure that family farms have a future several years from now. I think we have to speak the truth. And the truth of the matter is, this Freedom to Farm bill of 1996 is a freedom to fail bill. 
   The fundamental crisis is a crisis of price. Right now our corn growers get $1.75 at the local elevator; our wheat growers get $3.13 for wheat. This is nowhere near the cost of production. They cannot cash flow. They cannot make a living. Unless we fix this freedom to fail bill and we go back to some sort of leverage for farmers in the marketplace, some kind of safety net which will give them a decent income, some sort of price stability, our family 
   farmers do not have any future. That is what this is all about. 
   I am not interested in semantics. If people want to say, I am still for the Freedom to Farm bill, I don't care. But I will say this. The flexibility in that legislation to farm a whole lot of different crops does not do any good if there are record low prices for all of them. So let's get the assistance to people so they can survive. 
   But let's get beyond the short run, and let's be honest with one another. Let's fix that Freedom to Farm, or freedom to fail, bill, and let's make sure there is some price stability and there is some farm income out there; otherwise, our family farmers have no future. 
   Finally, if there was a press conference yesterday, I sure as heck hope there was some focus on the distortions in the market. I would like to join all my Republican colleagues in calling for putting free enterprise back into the food industry. I would like to join with all of my Republican colleagues in being a true Adam Smith apostle and calling for a market economy. I would like to join with all my Republican colleagues, in other words, in calling for some antitrust action. 
   How in the world can our family farmers make it when you have four large firms, the packers dominating the livestock farmers, the grain companies dominating the grain farmers? There has to be some fair competition. Everywhere our family farmers turn, whether it is from whom they buy or to whom they sell, we do not have the competition. 
   Let's really be on the side of these family farmers and insist on some competition. Let's have the courage to take on some of these conglomerates that have muscled their way to the dinner table exercising their raw political power over our producers and over  our consumers, and, I say to the Chair, who is my friend, I think over the taxpayers as well. 
   So I am all for a focus on family farmers. This is a crisis all in capital letters. I hope we will have some action. But I want to make it crystal clear, I think these are the issues that are at stake. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I also want to make it crystal clear that I have been proud to join with my Democratic colleagues out here on the floor; and the sooner we have Republican colleagues joining us, the better. We have been focusing on the importance of patient protection legislation. Protection of medical records privacy is very important to the American people. I hope we will have an opportunity to debate the Patients' Bill of Rights because I want to offer an amendment for segregation of records. The right to privacy is deeply rooted in American culture. American citizens expect that we will continue that tradition. 
   This amendment allows a person to segregate any type or amount of protected health information, and limit the use or disclosure of the segregated health information to those people specifically designated by the person. I want to just give one more example and, in this small example, tell a larger story. 
   It would allow a person, any of us, to take some of the particular private health information, and make sure it is not a part of a total record by segmenting it off and preserving privacy. We are getting more and more worried about genetic testing. For example, if you are talking about a woman who has genetic testing for breast cancer, she may fear the results if she thinks the life insurance companies are going to get ahold of this information or employers are going to get ahold of this information. She might not want to even be a part of this testing. 
   We want to protect the privacy rights of people. The same thing could be said for people who are talking to their doctor about mental health problems or substance abuse problems. The same can be said on a whole range of other issues. 
   There is the whole question of making sure ordinary citizens have some privacy rights, some protection in terms of who gets to see their medical records and who doesn't, making sure it is not abused. I will give a perfect example. I have never said this on the floor, but I will to make a larger point, I had two parents with Parkinson's disease. Research is now showing there is probably some genetic predisposition. As we move forward with this research, I may want to be a part of whatever kind of test or pilot project is put together by doctors. But maybe I wouldn't, if I thought there would be no way that, whatever their research suggested, that I wouldn't have some right to ensure I had some protection. 
   The right to privacy is relevant for the potential for genetic map research, for testing, and, for that matter, treatment, for maybe even finding cures for diseases. There are a lot of people who are not going to want to be a part of it, and there are a lot of people who are going to worry about that information if we don't have the privacy rights. 
   Conclusion: The pendulum has swung too far. I think we should be talking about universal health care coverage as well, and we will. At the moment, here is what we are faced with. 
   In the last several years, since we were stalemated on every kind of major national health insurance legislation or universal health care coverage bill, major changes have taken place in health care, not here in Washington but in the country. They have been revolutionary in their impact on people. The pendulum has swung too far. We have now moved toward an increasingly bureaucratized, corporatized, impersonal medicine where the bottom line has become the only line, where you have a few large insurance companies that own and dominate the majority of the managed care plans to the point where consumers, ordinary people, the people we represent want to know where they fit in. Right now they don't believe they fit in at all. 
   So without going into all the specifics, because we have been talking about this for a week, what people in the country have been saying is, if you want to do a good job of representing us, please make sure we have some protection for ourselves and our children to make sure we will be able to get the care we need and deserve. That is what we hear from the patients. That is what we hear from the consumers. 
   What we hear from the providers, the care givers, is, Senators, we are no longer able to practice the kind of medical care we thought we would be able to practice when we went to medical school or nursing school. We have become demoralized. Demoralized care givers are not good care givers. So we have a lot of work to do to make sure we have families in our States getting the health care they deserve. That is what this debate is all about. 
   We have been trying for a week to get some commitment from the majority party that we would have a substantive debate. That is the Senate. I hope that we will have an agreement. I hope we can come back to this. I hope we will have an agreement, and then I hope we can have the substantive debate and Senators can bring 
   amendments to the floor. 
   There are several amendments I am very interested in, and probably a number of other Senators have amendments they are interested in. We will vote them up or down. We will all be accountable. We will all do what we think is right for the people in our States. 
   The point is, we are not going to accept not being able to come to the floor and fight for people we represent on such an important question. That is what last week was about. That is what the beginning of this week is about. 
   I hope there will soon be an agreement. I hope there will soon be a debate. My hope is that before it is all over, we can pass a good piece of legislation that will not be an insurance company protection act but will be a consumer or patient protection act. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mrs. BOXER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Tiffany Stedman, who is an intern, and Carol Rest-Mincberg, who is a fellow, be granted the privilege of the floor today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I follow up on what the Senator from North Carolina said. 
   Five years ago I introduced a bill on patient protection. This matter has been going on for a while. There is an issue that defines ``medical necessity,'' another issue the Senator from North Carolina raised about an external independent appeals process, another issue on ``point-of-service'' option--making sure the families have a choice, and they don't now have when the employer shifts from one insurer to another. 
   There are two bills on the floor. People in the country have become more  and more disillusioned with the politics that they think is dominated by money and special interests. 
   Does the Senator from California agree people want to see a piece of legislation passed that has some teeth in it, that will make a difference and provide some protection? 
   My question is, Do the Senators think this patient protection legislation, what we are trying to do, is a test case as to whether or not the Senate belongs to the insurance companies, or whether or not the Senate belongs to the people in this country? 
   Is that too stark a contrast, or does it ultimately boil down to that core question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Since I hope we have debate, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, as much as I like my colleague from Arkansas, I am going to put in this request. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded so we can have debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, so we can debate health care, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded so we can debate health care, a matter that is very important to the people in Minnesota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, so we can speak as Senators, Democrats and Republicans, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask, please, unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I know you regret that because you like debate. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded so we can have a full-scale discussion on the Family Protection Act on the floor of the Senate as opposed to being gagged. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, even though I know Republicans don't want to debate this, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded so we can debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, so I can debate my colleague from Oklahoma and other Republicans, I ask  unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, on behalf of the Senator from North Dakota and all Senators who believe we should honestly debate issues, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, so we can debate the Patients' Protection Act, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time is remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am not going to take my time at this moment. Senator KERREY will precede me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Alexis Rebane and Sofia Lidshog, two interns, be allowed floor privileges for the debate today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator CLELAND be allowed to be in order as the Democrat to speak after I speak for up to 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I thank Senator KERREY for talking about children and education. It is truly a good news/bad news story. The good news is we have heroes and heroines right in our own communities that, with these resources, can really give children a chance to develop their full potential. If there is anything we should do as a Senate, it is to make sure each child has that chance. The bad news is, I say to my colleague, in Minnesota so many students could be helped, but we don't have the resources. There are schools in Minnesota with up to a 65-student population that don't receive a cent because by the time it is allocated in the cities, the schools aren't eligible, and those kids don't receive the help. It is just as big an issue in rural areas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. This is really just harping on the complexity of it all is the ultimate simplification. We know what to do, and it  has worked. We need to make more of a commitment. 
   Mr. THOMAS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my understanding is that we have not reached an agreement with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle about how we can have a serious, substantive, and important debate about health care, about patient protection in our country. The latest proposal as I understand it from the Republicans basically would amount to Democrats having an opportunity to maybe introduce four amendments. That would be it. Again, I challenge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, as I said yesterday, to debate this. 
   The evidence is irrefutable and irreducible: When it comes to who is covered, the Republican plan covers 48 million people, the Democratic plan covers 163 million people. That is a huge difference. 
   Republicans argue that we rely on States for the coverage, once we deal with what is called the ERISA problem. Our argument is that a child, a family, regardless of where the child lives, where the family lives--be it Mississippi or Minnesota--ought to have some protection. People ought to have the right, or the assurance, that if their child has a serious illness, they will be able to have access to the best care. That assurance for a family should extend to all citizens in our country. It shouldn't be based upon what different States decide or where a family lives. 
   I repeat, 163 million people with some protection versus 48 million people. It is no wonder my colleagues on the other side of the aisle don't want to debate patient protection. 
   In the Health Committee, where we wrote this bill, I had an amendment that dealt with the Republican ``gag'' clause. This amendment would prohibit retaliation by a health plan when a doctor advocates for a patient. There were two parts: First, it said that plans can't penalize doctors who advocate for patients during an appeal process; and, second, it protected licensed and certified health care professionals from retaliation if they reported some problems with the actual quality of care being provided in a hospital or by a plan. Presenting this information to a regulatory authority or private accreditation organization is called whistleblower protection. This amendment was defeated, I think, on an 10-8 vote. It is no wonder the Republicans in the Senate don't want to debate patient protection. 
   The front page story today says doctors are going to unionize. The American Medical Association announces doctors are going to unionize. No wonder, when doctors don't have protection if they advocate for a patient during an appeal process, when one of these managed care plans, owned by one these insurance companies practicing bottom-line medicine, and the bottom line is the only line, and the plan decides the patient is not going to be able to see a pediatrician who specializes in oncology. 
   If a child is ill with cancer and that family makes an appeal, if the doctor is there for that family and says, yes, that child needs to see this expert, there is no protection in the Republican plan. There is no whistleblower protection for doctors who say, I have to speak out, I have to say this plan, or this hospital, is not providing the kind of care that people deserve. I don't blame my Republican colleagues for not wanting to debate patient protection. 
   This chart shows whether or not you will have guaranteed access to specialists. The Republican plan has a little bit of access; the Democrats' plan makes it clear that people will have access. 
   When it gets to the question of who is going to define medical necessity--that is a critical issue--we make it clear that the provider defines medical necessity, not a 1-800 number you call where you have utilization review by people not necessarily qualified, working for insurance companies that are just trying to keep costs down. 
   When it comes to the issue of choice of doctor, points-of-service option, being able to find a doctor outside 
   your plan, and making sure your child who needs to see that doctor can see that doctor, we are clear: Families should have that option. The Republican plan doesn't support that. No wonder they don't want to debate. 
   When it comes to whistleblower protection for providers who advocate for their patients to make sure they don't lose their jobs, the Republican plan doesn't provide the protection. The Democrat plan does. No wonder my colleagues don't want to debate. 
   When it comes to the concerns and circumstances of women's lives vis-a-vis a health care system that has not been terribly sensitive and responsive to women, or with special emphasis on children and access to pediatric services, or making sure that people who struggle with mental health problems or substance abuse problems are not ``defined'' out and are not discriminated against, I don't see the protection in the Republican plan. We try to make sure there is that protection. 
   These are two plans, two proposals, two pieces of legislation where the differences make a difference. 
   I say one more time to my Republican colleagues, I have been trying to engage people in debate for 2 days. I will yield for any Senator who wants to debate, on my time, so I can ask questions. That is what we should be about. The Senate should be about deliberation and debate. It shouldn't be about delay and delay and delay and delay. 
   It may be that we will not get the patient protection legislation on the floor today, Thursday, but we will get this legislation on the floor. We will continue to bring up these problems that the people we represent have with this health care system right now. We will continue as Senators to advocate for families, to advocate for consumers, to advocate for children, to advocate for women, to advocate for good health care for people. 
   If I had my way, the Democratic Party would be out here on the floor also calling for universal health care coverage. We will get there. At the very minimum, let's make sure there is decent protection for consumers. 
   I say to my colleagues, I have carefully examined your patient protection act. I think it is the insurance company protection act. We went through this in committee. We went through the debate in committee. I see a piece of legislation that pretends to provide protection for people, but once we have the debate and once we get into specifics, I think people in the country are going to be furious. They will say, don't present us with a piece of legislation with a great title and a great acronym that has no teeth in it, that has no enforcement in it, and that will not provide the protection we need. 
   That is why the majority party, the Republican Party in the Senate, doesn't want to debate this. Republicans in the Senate right now--I hope this will change--do not want to have to come to the floor and debate amendments. They don't want to have to argue why they don't cover a third of the eligible people. They don't want to have to argue why they don't want to make sure families have access to specialized services. They don't want to argue why they don't want to provide doctors with whistleblower protection. They don't want to argue a whole lot of issues that deal with patient protection. 
   When you want to debate is when you really believe you are right. When you want to debate is when you really think you have a piece of legislation that will lead to the improvement of lives of people. When you want to debate is when you have a piece of legislation that is consistent with the words you speak and you know you are not trying to fool anybody; you know it is authentic; you know it is real. 
   When you don't want to debate, I say to my Republican colleagues, is when you have a whole set of propositions you cannot defend. When you don't want to debate is when you know in the light of day, with real debate, with people challenging you, you can't defend your proposal. When you don't want to debate is when you are worried  you will get into trouble with the people in the country because you haven't done the job. 
   That is what is going on. 
   One final time, I come to the floor of the Senate to urge my Republican colleagues to be willing to debate this question. 
   Let me make a connection to what Senator KERREY said earlier, because it is so important to me. If there is anything we should be about as Senators, it should be about focusing on good education, opportunities for children, good health care for people, making sure families don't fall between the cracks. 
   These are the issues that people talk about all the time in our States. That is what we ought to be focusing on right now. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, are we in a quorum call? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990624</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, on Tuesday, the Senate voted 57-42 to refuse debate on legislation that would provide some support to steelworkers. 
   I think those of us who wanted to provide some protection to steelworkers and their families against the illegal dumping of steel from foreign exporters to our country lost mainly because of the White House, which used import data from the month of April and convinced a lot of Members that the steel crisis is over. 
   Here we are, 2 days later, and there are new, important numbers out for May. We find out 2 days later that the steel crisis is not over. In fact, overall steel imports went up 30 percent from April to May. Most of the increase comes from the import of various kinds of semifinished steel, the very products that our taconite mines in Minnesota compete against. Imports of blooms, billets, and slabs are up a whopping 122 percent. Let me repeat that: 2 days ago the administration was telling us there was no crisis; the surge of imports is over. Now we find out a 30-percent surge of imported steel, the latest figures today, over a 1-month period from April to May, and for billets and slabs and blooms, a 122-percent increase in imports. 
   This is a disaster. It is a disaster for the women and men who have lost their jobs on the Iron Range and may never get them back. It is a disaster for the workers who are hanging by a thread. It is a disaster for their husbands and their wives and children. For them the steel crisis is not over. If anything, the steel crisis is getting worse. 
   The question I ask my colleagues who voted against our bill, who voted against even debating our bill, is: What next? 
   To the administration, I say you were successful in defeating the Rockefeller bill. Now what do you propose? Are we going to simply give up on the steel industry? 
   We cannot give up on the steel industry, and we cannot give up on the iron ore industry in our own country. We have to do something. 
   I am troubled by the arguments that were made in our Senate debate. I am troubled by some of the newspaper opinion pieces, because they seem to be suggesting that we ought to just give up on this industry. They seem to be suggesting that the extraordinary surge of steel imports, the dumping of cheap steel, the illegal dumping of steel sold below cost of production in our country is actually good for the economy, good for the economy because it keeps prices down in other sectors of our economy. 
   If that is the case, we should actually encourage foreign countries to dump on our markets. If we want to lower steel prices, then we shouldn't have any antidumping laws. We should repeal them all. We shouldn't even have any antidumping laws on the books. If that is the case, we ought to get rid of a section 201 law which provides for WTO legal quotas to import surges, the likes of which we have been experiencing. The fact of the matter is, we have had this surge of imported steel, and the argument is, it is good for the country because it keeps prices down. 
   That means we are not going to have a steel industry. That means we will not have an iron ore industry. That means many of these workers and their families are going to be spit out of the economy. Our workers can compete with anybody, any place, any time, anywhere. But they cannot compete with a surge of illegally dumped imports. Our steelworkers, our iron ore workers are the most efficient in the world. They can compete with fairly traded steel, but they cannot compete with this. 
   I am real worried, because I think this administration and I think too many of my colleagues in the Senate have sent the following message when it comes to trade policy: If it is a top contributor, Chiquita bananas, we are there for you. We will make sure that we put on a real strong import quota. When it comes to investments of Wall Street investors, when they go sour in Korea or Indonesia, Thailand or Mexico, Brazil or Russia, we will pick up the tab. 
   But when the global economic crisis boomeranged on American steelworkers, the message from the administration and the Senate was: You get stuck with the bill. 
   The crisis is not over. The May import numbers prove it. The question for all of you who oppose the Rockefeller bill, the question for this administration, a Democratic administration that is supposed to care about working people is: What do you propose to do now? 
   Let me just repeat this one more time. I was thinking to myself, I wonder why the administration hasn't released figures, since they were making the case that the crisis was over. Surely they will release the May figures. They must have had them a few days ago. Two days ago, one of the major arguments used for opposing our legislation was ``the crisis is over.'' Now we find out 2 days later, overall steel imports are up 30 percent from April to May, and imports of blooms and billets and slabs, which compete against our taconite on the Iron Range, are up 122  percent. We didn't get those figures from the administration 2 days ago. I think I know why. 
   I say to the President, I say to the administration, and I say to Senators who voted against an opportunity to even debate this legislation: The crisis is not over. The statistics prove it. My question is: What do you propose to do now? What do you propose to do now? 
   Mr. President--not the President that is presiding on the floor of the Senate, but Mr. President of the United States of America--what do you propose to do now? Your administration told us 2 days ago this crisis was over. Now we have the figures: 30 percent increase in imports of steel, 122 percent in imports of blooms, billets, and slabs. It is going to be an economic convulsion for the Iron Range of Minnesota. 
   It is going to be an economic convulsion for steelworkers, illegally dumped steel. We will compete against anybody. But if you are going to make the argument that we should not do anything about illegally dumped steel, that we can't provide any protection for our workers, that we can't have an administration and a Government that negotiates a fair and a tough trade policy that provides protection to our workers, then what in the world are we here for? 
   I speak with a little bit of--not bitterness but outrage. I heard what was being said just two days ago. Now the numbers have come out. Now we know we have this crisis. Now we know we have this surge of imports. It is illegally dumped steel. 
   My question for the President of the United States of America is: What are you going to do? You defeated our legislation. What are you going to do now? 
   I am not going to give up on this. I hope the steelworkers and their families won't give up on this. My suggestion is that we need to have a meeting with the President and the administration because I have to still believe that they are concerned and they will be willing to take some action. We need to talk about what kind of action we will take soon, because if we don't, there are going to be a lot of broken dreams, a lot of broken lives, and a lot of broken families all across our country, including in Northeast Minnesota, the iron range of Minnesota. I can't turn my gaze away from that. I can't quit fighting because of the vote a couple days ago. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mrs. FEINSTEIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Howard Kushlan, an intern in my office, be allowed to be on the floor for the duration of the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from West Virginia. 
   Let me try to talk about this in a more blunt way, not in a bitter way, but let me be direct about it. 
   I think it is just outrageous. Mr. President, you are a friend. I hate to have such angry words. But we should be debating. Personally, I wish we were talking about universal health care coverage. The insurance industry took it off the table. They dominate too much of this political process. 
   I think Senator FEINGOLD and I, before this debate is over, will come out and just talk about the contributions from all the different parties that are affected by this health care legislation. We should be talking about universal health care coverage. But we certainly also should be talking about patient protection. 
   We have a system where the bottom line is becoming the only line. It is becoming the incorporated and industrialized system. 
   The Republicans say they have a plan--the Republican ``patient protection plan''--which I think really is an insurance company protection plan. It covers about 48 million people. The people who aren't covered, because of the risk--they can't be covered, because they are in self-insured plans because of what the States do. 
   Our plan covers 163 million people. 
   No wonder my colleagues on the other side of the aisle don't want to debate this. 
   Second point: Who defines ``medical necessity''? 
   Our plan makes it clear that the providers decide what the care should be for the consumer, for our children, for ourselves, for our loved ones. The Republican plan is not so clear on this question. 
   No wonder my colleagues don't want to have any debate. 
   Point of service option: I remember having an amendment in committee when we wrote this bill which at least would let people, if they are willing to pay a little more, be able to purchase care outside of the network, outside of the plan. If they need to go to see a specialist they hear about who would make such a difference and would give them the care they need, or for their loved one, we provide for that. The Republican plan--the insurance-company protection plan--doesn't. 
   No wonder they don't want to debate this. 
   Who does the review? 
   When you want to make an appeal and you say you have been denied the access to the physician you need to see, or your family can't get the care they need, do you have an external review process? 
   Is there an ombudsman program back in our States? Make it grass roots. Do not talk about centralized public policy. Make it happen back in our States. An ombudsman program with external review, somewhere consumers can say: I have been denied the care I need. 
   The Republican insurance company protection plan doesn't provide for that. Our legislation does. We have a difference, America, between the two parties, that makes a difference in your lives. 
   With all due respect, I understand why my colleagues on the other side of the aisle don't want to debate. The Senate is supposed to be the world's greatest deliberative body. Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle don't get the right to tell us that we won't be able to bring amendments to the floor, we won't be able to have a full-scale discussion, and we won't be able to have a thorough debate. 
   I can't wait for this debate. I introduced the patient protection bill 5 years ago, half a decade ago. This will be a great debate. I think the country will love this debate. The people in Minnesota and the people in our different States will say they are talking about a set of issues that are important to their lives. 
   The pendulum has swung too far in the direction of the big insurance companies that own and control most of the managed care plans in our country. Consumers want to know where they fit in. Ordinary citizens want to know where they fit in. The caregivers, the doctors and the nurses, want to know where they fit in. When they went to nursing school and when they went to medical school, they thought they would be able to make the decisions and provide people with care. Now they find they can't even practice the kind of medicine that they imagined they would practice when they were in medical school. 
   Demoralized caregivers are not good caregivers. We have demoralized doctors and nurses; we have consumers who are denied access to care they need; we have corporatized, bureacratized bottom-line medicine, dominated by the insurance industry in this country. 
   We have a piece of legislation to at least provide patients with some protection and caregivers with some protection, and our Republican colleagues don't want to debate this. I am not surprised. I am not surprised. 
   On the other hand, you can't have it all ways. We wrote this bill in the Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee. We had a pretty good markup where we sat down, wrote the bill, and had pretty good debate. I was disappointed that a lot of important amendments protecting consumers were defeated on a straight party vote. 
   Now it is time to bring this legislation to the floor. As a Senator from Minnesota, I say to Senator DASCHLE that I absolutely support what he is doing. I absolutely support what we are doing as Democrats. In fact, I am particularly proud right now to be a Democrat because I always feel a lot better when we are talking about issues that make a real difference to people's lives. 
   As far as I can tell, most of the people in our country are still focused on how to earn a decent living, how to give their children the care they need and deserve, how to do good by our kids, to do good by our State and country, how to not fall through the cracks on decent health care coverage, how to make sure we have affordable, dignified, germane, good health 
   care for our citizens. 
   This doesn't even get us all the way there. It seems to me the Senate, by bringing this bill to the floor, by having the opportunity to offer amendments and having the debate, can do something very positive. We can do something to make an enormous difference in the lives of people we represent. 
   The Democrats aren't going to let up. We are going to keep bringing our  amendments to the floor. We are going to keep talking about health care policy. We are going to keep talking about consumer protection and patient protection. We are going to keep talking about how to make sure the people we represent get a fair shake in this health care system. We are going to keep saying that it is not our responsibility to be Senators representing the insurance companies; we are supposed to be representing the vast majority of people who live in our States. That is what we are going to do, as long as it takes. 
   I am ready for this debate. I am ready. Let's start it now. 
   I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, just a footnote. Altogether, we had 16 Democrats come to the floor to speak about the importance of patient protection and we have had two Republicans. 
   In one way I am not surprised because I don't think my colleagues have a defensible case. They don't want to bring this motion to the floor. They don't want to have a debate. They don't want to vote on the amendments. But that is what it is all about. 
   We are not here to dodge; we are not here not to make difficult decisions. We are not here to not be willing to debate legislation that is important to people's lives. 
   I say to the majority leader and my colleagues on the other side, it is true; we will have amendments. I have some great amendments in my-not-so-humble opinion. Others may have a different view. 
   The point is, that is what it is about. Bring the amendments to the floor. As Democrats, we will discuss what we believe, we will talk about the legislation and the amendments we have that we think will lead to the best protection for people we represent in our States. And Republicans will come out and they can talk about why they think these amendments are a profound mistake and why their amendments will do better. They can talk about their legislation and we can talk about our legislation. Maybe we will have plenty of compromise and maybe we will come up with a great bipartisan bill. Who is to say? 
   Right now, all we have on the other side is silence, an unwillingness to debate this issue. If I didn't think I was taking advantage of the situation, part of me is tempted to keep talking and asking Members to come on out and debate. I won't. I think I made my point about 20 different times in 20 different ways. 
   Since the Senator from Alabama is presiding, I do want to say this for people who are watching: The Senator from Alabama can't debate because he is the Presiding Officer. He would. I know him well enough. 
   I say to Senator SESSIONS, we will get a chance, and all the rest of the Senate will have a chance, to come out and debate patient protection legislation. Let's have a good, substantive, serious debate. I know the Senator from Alabama loves a debate and he is good at it. So are many other Senators. It will not be debate for the sake of debate. It will not be fun and games. It will be a very serious issue. 
   Honest to gosh, I came here as a Senator from Minnesota to do good for people in my State. I can't do good for people in my State when I have a majority party that wants to block patient protection legislation. I didn't come here to represent the insurance industry. I didn't come here to represent the pharmaceutical industry. I came here to represent people in Minnesota. 
   I want us to debate this legislation. I certainly hope Republican colleagues will come out here and we will get going on this. Otherwise, for as long as it takes, I think we are committed to using every bit of leverage we have to force a debate on this question. 
   Mr. President, if there are other colleagues on the floor, and it looks as if maybe there are, I will yield the floor. I see my colleague from Tennessee. I say to my colleague from Tennessee, I am delighted he is out here. I hope this is the beginning of a discussion. Then we will have this legislation on the floor soon. Let's have the debate. Let's pass good legislation that will help people in our States. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, what is the current situation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in order to save time, let me speak to these amendments and then I will send up a modification. 
   For just one minute, I do want to respond to my colleague from Texas and say that I think this vote today around noon on cloture on the Rockefeller amendment is a test of economic literacy. But I have a different definition of that than my colleague from Texas. One more time, I want to make about two or three points. The first point is that our administration has no problem when it comes to tariffs, or when it comes to imposing tariffs on European imports in support of Chiquita Bananas in Central America. But now when it comes to the steelworkers, there is opposition. 
   My second point is that in many ways what happened with the Asian crisis was you had hot capital going in and out of those countries with no kind of regulatory framework that made sense. George Soros, a financier who knows something about this, is saying we have to have a different kind of framework for the global economy. Some of the financial interests that benefited most from financial liberalization and then were hurt the most from the Asian crisis were able to get some public money and public assistance through IMF bailouts. But again, when our steelworkers ask for some support under existing trade statutes, we don't get it. 
   Finally, let it be clear that this is not all about whether we have free trade. This is about fair trade. That is what I think matters the most. Our workers can compete with workers anywhere. But when you see the dumping of steel below the cost of production in our markets and saturating our markets and prices going down and people losing their jobs, of course, working people stand up and fight back. That makes all the sense in the world. 
   Finally, I want to argue a little bit of economics focusing on how we can help countries going through these crises --countries such as Thailand, Indonesia, Russia, and Mexico--how we can help those countries help their working class people consume more. Right now we are emphasizing that those countries should try to export their way out of their crises instead of relying on domestic demand, which does not make a lot of sense. We ought to be focused on how people in these countries can earn a decent living so they can, in fact, buy some of what they produce in their countries--some of their own products. 
   I say to my colleague from Texas that economic analysis is a little bit different than his but one which I think makes more sense. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have two amendments that I want to talk about today. 
   The first amendment deals with one of the most alarming human rights abuses in the world today. It is the growing use of child soldiers. 
   Today, in 25 countries there are a quarter of a million, or more, children being used in government armies and rebel groups. Some of these children--if you are ready for this--are as young as 8 years old. 
   Children are recruited in a variety of different ways. Some are conscripted. Some are forcibly recruited or kidnapped and literally dragged from their homes, schools, and villages. In some instances, children are recruited based solely on whether or not they are big enough to hold a gun. 
   I think I need to repeat that. 
   In some cases these children are recruited, abducted, or kidnapped on the basis of whether or not they are big enough to hold a gun. 
   These young combatants are not only subject to grave physical risk but are all too often encouraged, or even forced themselves, to commit barbaric acts. Children are forced to do this. They are considered dispensable. Child soldiers are often sent to the front lines of combat, or sent into mine fields ahead of other troops. Children who protest or who cannot keep up with the march or attempt to escape are killed often by other child captives who are forced to participate in the killings as a means of breaking their wills and their spirits. 
   Those who survive these experiences are frequently physically and emotionally scarred. In addition to dealing with severe emotional and psychological trauma, malnourishment, disease, and physical injury suffered while in captivity, many children worry about their basic survival--how they will feed, clothe, and shelter themselves. 
   For example, in northern Uganda, the Lord's Resistance Army, an opposition group, has abducted some 10,000 children. Children as young as 8 years old have been taken from their schools and homes and forced to march to rebel-based camps in southern Sudan. They are made to carry heavy loads, without rest, and with very little food and water. 
   Accounts of the use of these children as soldiers by the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda and in the devastating Sierra Leone conflict make clear that child combatants may suffer not only physical injury or disability but also psychological damage or rejection by their home communities. 
   Last year, I met with Ms. Angelina Atyam, the mother of one such child. Angelina's 14-year-old daughter, Charlotte--Charlotte is the first name of Charlotte Oldham-Moore, who is with me on human rights issues--was abducted from her school dormitory over a year and a half ago by rebels from the Lord's Resistance Army. Angelina described to me that fateful October morning when she arrived at her daughter's school to find all the windows broken, the girls' clothes scattered everywhere, and her daughter missing. The rebels had arrived at St. Mary's girls school the previous night, tied up the girls, beat them if they cried, and then took them away into unspeakable horrors. One hundred and thirty-nine students were abducted at gunpoint. 
   That is why this amendment is a very important amendment. 
   Thankfully, many of them have been rescued or escaped or their freedom has been purchased. But many others, such as Charlotte, have not returned. Charlotte turned 15 in the captivity of the Lord's Resistance Army. In Angelina's own words:  
   Until peace comes, the kidnaping will continue. My daughter Charlotte turned 15 in Sudan. Like other parents in the Concerned Parents Association, my husband and I can only rely on those few children who manage to escape from captivity for news of our daughter. Two weeks ago, I spoke with a girl who had just escaped. She said the rebels are now intentionally impregnating the girls, to make them too ashamed to go back to their parents. She mentioned that one of the pregnant girls is a St. Mary's student named Charlotte. 
   I pray that one day my daughter will come home, and my family can become whole again. Uganda's future depends on how the government acts to end this tragedy and how quickly society reintegrates the children. No nation can have a valid strategic interest in prolonging the captivity and abuse of children. President Clinton has a unique opportunity to help start this healing process.  
   Important efforts are being made to address this moral outrage. Graca Machel, the former U.N. expert on the impact of armed conflict on children, has recommended that governments immediately demobilize all child soldiers. 
   I believe the United States must do more to end this grave human rights  abuse and assist its victims. Rehabilitation and social reintegration programs are essential to help former child soldiers regain a place in civilian society and help prevent their re-recruitment into subsequent conflicts. I believe strongly that the need for demobilization, rehabilitation, and reintegration programs of former child soldiers in conflict areas must be incorporated into U.S. policy. 
   The United States must take a leadership role in demobilizing and reintegrating these children back into their communities. 
   That is why this is a resolution that directs the State Department to study the issue of rehabilitation of former child soldiers, the positive role the United States can play in this effort, and to submit a report to the Congress on how we should address it. 
   Armed conflict has already taken the lives of 2 million children in the last decade. Three times as many have been injured or disabled. With the continued use of child soldiers, those numbers will only rise. 
   Our country must be a champion for children and their welfare. Consequently, the United States should be making the strongest possible effort to protect children of combat and to assist them in reentering their societies. It is the very least that we can do. 
   This amendment represents a continuation of some work that the Senator and I have been doing in this area. Today we focus on the need to provide the support services for these children. 
   Today we focus on the need to get a report from our State Department as to how we can play as positive a role as possible. 
   In the past, I have talked about these abuses on the floor. I certainly hope that we will continue to be very active and play a positive role in efforts to have some kind of international protocol agreement to protect these children. 
   I can't think, quite frankly, of a more important issue. 
   I have talked with some parents. As a parent, I find it unbelievable that this happens to so many children in so many countries. It would seem to me that we really ought to, as a country, as a government, take the lead and play as positive a role as possible. 
   I thank my colleagues for supporting this modification of this amendment. 
   When Senator HELMS comes to the floor, we will go ahead and do that. 
   Mr. President, also in order to move forward, let me go on and speak about another amendment that I was going to introduce to this bill--the State Department authorization bill, which I will now hold off on for a little bit longer period of time as we continue to build support. 
   This amendment also deals with another horrendous human rights violation in our time--the trafficking in human beings, particularly the trafficking of women and children for the purposes of sexual exploitation and forced labor. 
   Earlier this year, I introduced a bill called the International Trafficking of Women and Children Victim Protection Act of 1999, which addresses this issue and is cosponsored by Senators FEINSTEIN, BOXER, SNOWE, MURRAY, and TORRICELLI. 
   If passed, this bill will put the Senate on record--or this amendment, which we will be introducing shortly. We are going to continue to work with people and work with the State Department and with other Senators and build the support. But we want to go on record in the Senate, the U.S. Congress, as opposing trafficking for forced prostitution and domestic servitude, 
   and acting to check it before the lives of more women and more girls are shattered. 
   One of the fastest growing international trafficking businesses is the trade in women. Women and girls seeking a better life, a good marriage, or a lucrative job abroad, unexpectedly find themselves forced to work as prostitutes or in sweatshops. Seeking this better life, they are lured by local advertisements for good jobs in foreign countries--including our country--at wages they could never imagine at home. Every year, the trafficking of human beings for the sex trade affects hundreds of thousands of women throughout the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I send the modification to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I urge adoption of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank the Chair for his help and his support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent Kathleen O'Brien, a fellow, and Meagan Fitzsimmons, who is an intern, be granted the privilege of the floor today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we are going to debate H.R. 975. I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to perhaps speak for 5 minutes on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think I will come back to the floor, and depending on how many Senators are out here, I will speak more on this. But in this short period of time I want to try to deal with some of the arguments on this very important cloture vote on H.R. 975. There are three arguments I want to address in 4 or 5 minutes. 
   The first argument is that the steel crisis is over. That is what I hear from the White House. I say to my colleagues, I spent the weekend on the Iron Range in northeastern Minnesota, both in Duluth and on the Iron Range in Minnesota. If you were to speak to some of the 108 workers who have been laid off at EVTAC Mining, or talked to the workers at Minntac who had to make all sorts of concessions last fall to avoid layoffs, or if you were to talk to workers at LTV in Hoyt Lakes, you would find quite another reality. I think it would be hard for the administration or any Senator, Republican or Democrat, to go to the Iron Range in Minnesota, where we produce the iron ore for our steel, and tell these workers or their families that this crisis is over. This crisis is far from over. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, they make it clear the crisis is far from over as well. 
   The global conditions at the root of the crisis have not gone away. Imports from the major foreign producers have declined, but other countries have taken their place and we see major producers shifting to different steel products to get around the dumping orders. We need this Rockefeller bill to plug the loopholes. 
   Dumping cases take time. In many cases the relief is too little too late, or it gets negotiated away in suspension agreements. I am afraid someday we are going to wake up and we are not going to have any steel industry at all. 
   In my State of Minnesota we were a part of what happened in the 1980s, when we lost 350,000 steelworker jobs and 28,000 people left the Iron Range for good. As a Senator, I do not want to let that happen again. 
   The second argument that is made by the administration is that we cannot go forward with this bill because this is quota relief, and the question is whether or not quota relief is WTO-legal. 
   I see here a bit of a double standard. When Mr. Carl Lindner from Chiquita  Bananas had a trade complaint, the administration did not hesitate to slap a 100-percent tariff on imports from Europe. But when our workers and working families ask for some relief under Section 201, which provides for quotas and is WTO-legal, then all of a sudden there is no relief forthcoming. 
   Finally, I make a point that this crisis is not the fault of steelworkers. They should not be the ones asked to pay the price. I am in complete agreement that we ought to care fiercely about what happens in Russia, Mexico, Thailand, Indonesia, Korea, and other countries as well, but again I see another double standard. When our financial interests, when a lot of our Wall Street interests, if you will, wanted to be able to invest capital in these countries and take capital out at a second's notice, when they wanted to put hot capital in and take hot capital out without any regulatory framework in place, they were pleased to do so as long as they were making huge profits. Then when they decided to pull their capital out, these countries were left in terrible trouble. When it came to whether or not there would be IMF bailouts and whether or not there would be any kind of public dollars to help these financial interests out, again we had an administration that was all for these Wall Street interests. 
   I come to the floor of the Senate today to say this administration ought to really put working families--steelworkers of the Iron Range, steelworkers all across the country--as high on its list of priorities as Wall Street investors. And not just those steelworkers but the communities where they work and the communities where they live. 
   This bill, H.R. 975, is a good place to start. I thank Senator ROCKEFELLER for his leadership. I am proud to be out here on the floor speaking on this legislation. I hope we not only get votes for cloture, but we get more than enough votes to override any Presidential veto. This is a critically important vote that is going to take place within the next hour. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I say to my colleague, Senator DORGAN from North Dakota, I will be very brief. I did not come to the Chamber with prepared remarks, but I do want to pick up on the closing remarks my colleague from Kansas was making; by the way, a Senator who has lived and breathed agriculture for many years and whose expertise I certainly respect. 
   I think the appropriations bill raises a lot of questions that we better answer and we better answer soon. I do not really think we can have a discussion about agriculture--the Senator from Kansas at the very end said: Listen, as I speak today, I am mindful of the economic pain out there in the countryside. 
   We are experiencing an economic convulsion in agriculture. Frankly, I do not think there is any way to talk about what is happening in the countryside without talking about this Freedom to Farm, what I have always called the ``freedom to fail'' bill. 
   In my State of Minnesota, the Minnesota Star Tribune--which is the largest newspaper in our State, which editorialized very strongly in favor of this bill not that long ago--had an editorial saying, listen, we need to revisit this. 
   Clearly, we do not have any safety net any longer. Clearly, we do not have a way that farmers--family farmers, family farmers, family farmers; we need to say that three or four times --have any leverage in the marketplace to get a decent price. 
   I think one of the really bitter ironies of what is going on is we are spending--this was supposed to be the market--$25, $30 billion of bailout money--and actually I am all for getting the credit to farmers so they can live to farm another day, but most of the farmers in Minnesota basically say, thank you, but, in fact, they are going to need even more to be able to keep on going. 
   But what they also say is: Senator WELLSTONE, what's even more important to me is, where will we be 5 years from now? Where will our kids be 5 years from now? I am just telling you that I know on our side, the Democrats, we are going to be out here--and I am hoping with a lot of Republicans as well--with a whole package of proposals. 
   Time is not neutral. We cannot wait around. Time is not neutral at all for these farmers. The projections for the number of farms we have lost in Minnesota and we will lose on our present course are devastating. We have to change that course. 
   I think maybe we need more of a reality check. We can talk about the fact that we all care about agriculture, and we have this bill, and we are spending this much money, and all the rest, but this isn't business as usual. We are talking about a crisis, all spelled out in capital letters. We have to take some action. If we do not take some action, then I think this will be kind of the last stage of just losing the family farm structure in agriculture. 
   By the way, when I am talking about family farms, I am talking less about the size of the farm, though I do think there are clearly some limits, as far as I am concerned, when we talk about any kind of subsidy or support. I am talking about the pattern of the decisionmaking; I am talking about entrepreneurship; I am talking about the family farm as in the people who work the land, live on the land, that they make the decisions. That is what I am talking about. 
   So I just want to make it really clear, whether or not you take the cap off the loan rate, whether or not you figure out a way to have corn and wheat in the same kind of ratio in relation to the price that we now have for soybeans--a lot of farmers in Minnesota are planting soybeans, soybeans, soybeans. This whole Freedom to Farm bill is a nightmare. The sooner people here are going to be willing to face up to it, the better. 
   As I said before--I will say it again--it was a great bill for Cargill. It was a great bill for the big grain companies. And it is a living nightmare for family farmers. They cannot cash flow on the price they receive. If we do not talk about price, price, price, then, frankly, we are not going to enable people to make it. So that is my first point. 
   My second point, speaking just for Senator KOHL, who stepped off the floor briefly--and I include myself in his camp; I know Senator FEINGOLD has the same belief--one of the reasons we are on the floor is because we are not going to see any extension of the dairy compact. Those of us from the Midwest are not going to let that happen. If there is one thing I do agree with, it is the adage that all politics is local. We are here to fight for people in our States. We are not going to let dairy farmers in our States come out on the short end of the stick. So just to be crystal clear about that, that is just not going to happen. 
   My third point--and I will have two others, I say to Senator DORGAN; the third and fourth point I can do in 2 or 3 minutes--is that we have a good piece of legislation which ought to be slam dunked. It ought to be slam dunked. There ought to be 100 votes for it. The sooner we get to it, the better--price disclosure. You have this situation where it is not just the grain farmers; it is not just the dairy farmers; it is our livestock producers as well. 
   I have said it many times, but it is worth saying again on the floor of the Senate. You have this bitter irony of our hog producers facing extinction, our pork producers facing extinction, and the packers are in hog heaven. They are making record profits. We want to know what is going on. 
   So at the very minimum, our family farmers who are not vertically integrated, our family farmers who do not represent the conglomerates that have so effectively muscled their way to the dinner table, exercising their power over so much of the food industry, want to know exactly what people are being paid for their product. We think that ought to be public information. We think our family farmers have a right to know that. I just will say that this ought to be slam dunked. There ought to be 100 votes for it; the sooner the better. What are we waiting for? 
   I could go on and on, and later on, when it is appropriate, I will bring out any number of different studies, with a lot of data, because I think it is really worth talking about. In some ways I almost find this ironic. I think maybe I am going to pick up on an argument that some of my Republican colleagues like to make about the problem of just throwing money at a problem. With all  due respect, if we do not change this structure of agriculture, a lot of the family farmers in the Midwest, South, all the family farmers who are left in the country, are just not going to make it. They are not going to make it. 
   Everywhere you look, in all sectors of the food industry, whether it be the input side or the output side--from whom the farmers buy, to whom they sell--you are lucky if you have four firms that dominate only 50 percent of the market. Quite often it is more than 50 percent of the market. It isn't even an oligopoly. It isn't even four firms dominating 50 percent of the market. It is a monopoly structure. Whether it be the packers, the stockyards, the USDA, or the Justice Department, we need antitrust action. We need antitrust action. We need to put some free enterprise back into the food industry. 
   Give the family farmers in Minnesota a level playing field, give them a fair shake, and they can compete against anybody. But right now what you have is a situation where these conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table and exercised their raw political power over family farmers, over consumers, over taxpayers, and we need antitrust action. 
   That means we have to take on big economic interests. That means we have to take on some of the largest contributors on the floor of the Senate. My colleague, Senator FEINGOLD, said the other day he was going to start calling a kind of rollcall of big contributors as we go to different bills. On agriculture I probably ought to come out here and just go over the list of contributions. It is not for a particular Senator but the Senate. 
   All of us need to change the system of contributions that come from these packers, that come from these big agribusinesses, that come from those corporate giants, because, frankly, we seem to be afraid to take them on. But if we are not willing to take them on and we are not willing to have antitrust action for real competition, our family farmers cannot make it. 
   So I just say that now is the time. We have legislators coming in to Washington, DC tonight. Many of them travel out here with their own income. They do not have a lot of income. Many of them are farmers from State legislatures. Many of them work with really good grass-roots organizations. 
   This isn't business as usual. So sometime, whether it be on this bill, whether it be within the next month, whether it be in the fall, this Senate has to take some action that makes a real difference to family farmers so they have some kind of future. One of the first things we have to do is be honest, just declare that the Freedom to Farm bill has been a ``freedom to fail'' bill. We need to change this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be dispensed with so I may have 3 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator from North Carolina. It may take less than 3 minutes. 
   I refer colleagues, and I will include in the RECORD, to a piece today in the New York Times, front-page article, the title of which is ``New Lenders With Huge Fees Thrive on Workers With Debts.'' 
   Some of my colleagues remember that Senator Metzenbaum did a lot of work on this. When we do bring up the bankruptcy bill, I will have an amendment which will prohibit claims in bankruptcy which rise from these high-cost transactions such as ``payday'' loans, car title loans, or any other credit extension that extends beyond 100 percent per annum. I will go into this in detail. I cannot right now in 3 minutes. I will put this piece in the RECORD. I hope colleagues will read it. It is really quite outrageous what these companies have been able to get away with. I look forward to having a debate on this amendment on the bankruptcy bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990618</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for 10 seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
   I wonder whether or not Senator DOMENICI is going to come back and speak. I wonder whether Senator NICKLES wants to speak. I wonder if I can address the Senate, after Senator NICKLES and Senator DOMENICI, and be allowed to speak on this bill. 
   I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Twenty minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. After the Senator from Texas and the Senator from Oklahoma, I follow? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to both my colleagues, actually sometimes coming down and waiting to speak is positive. You get to hear people, as my colleague from Texas said, who see it through different lenses, who see it a different way. 
   What I want to do is, first of all, try to bring this debate back to people and talk about it in very personal terms as it affects people in my State of Minnesota. Then I want to speak to what I believe has been a political economy argument that has been made, and I take sharp exception with what my colleagues have had to say. 
   As to Minnesota, believe me, the loan guarantees in this legislation will be much appreciated in my State of Minnesota. 
   My colleagues also mentioned the iron ore mine operations and the steel loan guarantee program sets a $30 million ceiling for iron ore companies. That is going to be particularly important to the Iron Range in northern Minnesota. 
   One hears a lot in the media about the Goldilocks economy we have. I heard some of my colleagues talk about this Goldilocks economy and how great it is; it is a booming economy, we are just humming along. For many of our people in Minnesota, especially on the Iron Range in northeast Minnesota, this Goldilocks economy is much too cold. 
   Already, 10,000 workers have lost their jobs due to a flood of illegally dumped imports. This is the worst crisis the steel industry has faced since the mid-1980s when 28,000 people left the Iron Range in Minnesota for good. We do not want to let it happen again. That is what this debate is about: people's lives, about whether or not we are going to see more broken lives, more broken dreams, more broken families. 
   Now, all these statistics that my colleagues have been laying out, they affect real people in real communities. The surge of steel imports over the past year or so threatens thousands of people in northern Minnesota because iron ore mining is the mainstay of the Iron Range economy. 
   I thought what I would do, since we have heard all these abstract economic theories laid out here, is tell you a little bit about the Iron Range, about the communities, about the people whose future we hold in our hands. 
   Let me repeat that. I want to talk about the people and the communities of the Iron Range, because we hold their future in our hands. 
   More than 20,000 jobs in northern Minnesota depend on the iron ore industry, though less than a third of those workers actually work in the mines. The industry purchases over $876 million in goods and services annually from nearly 200 Minnesota communities, and it contributes more than $1 billion annually to our State's economy. The taconite production tax provides nearly $100 million annually for the support of Iron Range counties, cities, townships, and school districts, and it provides funding for economic development and property tax relief as well.  
   Most of this country's iron ore reserves are in the form of low-grade taconite found on the Mesabi Range of Minnesota. There is no shortage of taconite. In fact, the Mesabi Range holds about 200 years worth of pellet reserves. But the challenge has been to continue mining and processing taconite in a cost-efficient way. 
   I agree with my colleagues when they talk about the importance of being able to compete. No question about it. Back in the 1980s, the industry was told they had to modernize in order to compete with foreign steel. And they did just that. They played by the rules of the game. They poured $1 billion of investment into modernization, and they shed 10,000 jobs. As a result, the industry now has only 6,000 workers, and this industry is the world's most efficient. 
   With the boom in the national economy, some people in the Iron Range were starting to hope that they could dig their way out of the debt they piled up during the 1980s, make an addition to their house, save some money for their kids' college education, and attend to some of the needs they had too long neglected. But sadly, because of the steel crisis, many of those dreams have proved to be short-lived. 
   In 1998, LTV Steel Mining Company in Hoyt Lakes, MN, was forced to reduce its fourth quarter production by 360,000 tons, an equivalent of 66 jobs. Employees at US-Minntac in Mt. Iron, MN, were forced to make concessions last fall to prevent 133 layoffs. Employees at EVTAC in Eveleth, MN, now have nothing left to give. EVTAC permanently laid off 168 employees, a quarter of its employees, when it shut down one of its two pelletizing furnaces last week. EVTAC is fighting hard to stay out of Chapter 11. Two other Iron Range taconite facilities, Butler Taconite and Reserve Mining Company, both closed under similar circumstances in the mid-1980s. We do not want to go through that again. 
   The workers who were laid off at EVTAC, and workers throughout the Iron Range, and steelworkers all across the country are all looking to us for some help. That is where they should look. This crisis is not their fault. They were told to modernize and they did. This crisis is the result of illegal dumping. Unless we want to see a repeat of the 1980s, we must act. 
   Again, this piece of legislation, this loan guarantee is a good first step, but it is only a first step. Soon we are going to be considering legislation introduced by Senator ROCKEFELLER which will provide even more effective relief. I will be joining Senator ROCKEFELLER, and other Senators will be joining him, Democrats and Republicans. I heard some of my colleagues speak to that legislation, and I want to respond to some of their arguments. 
   It is unfortunate that we are in this difficult situation. We 
   should have acted sooner. U.S. trade laws and the WTO recognize the legitimate need of every country to prevent extraordinary import surges such as this one from destroying its industrial infrastructure and eliminating thousands of jobs. Under section 201--let me be bipartisan in my critique--the administration could have imposed the same remedies as now provided in the Rockefeller bill. 
   Steelworkers played by the rules when they modernized their industry, and steelworkers paid the price for that modernization. They made the sacrifice. Steelworkers also played by the rules when they asked for Section 201 relief. But they didn't get it. The administration was implored for months to take action under section 201, and it chose not to do so. Now foreign steel exporters are the ones breaking the rules. 
   The question is not who is playing by the rules but, rather, which rules the administration chooses to apply. Now, my colleagues--as it turns out, Republican colleagues, though I am being critical of my administration, a Democratic administration--my colleagues talk about how this crisis is all the result of Adam Smith's invisible hand. But that is not quite the political economy that we are looking at. 
   The administration did not hesitate to slap 100-percent tariffs on imports from the EU when a top campaign contributor to both parties, Carl Lindner of Chiquita Bananas, had a trade complaint. Lindner's dispute with the EU hardly even involves American jobs. It concerns bananas grown in Central America. But we were there for them. Now when American steelworkers ask for existing trade laws to be applied, they're given short shrift. The message this sends to American manufacturing workers is that they are not a priority. 
   Moreover, this administration went the extra mile, working through the International Monetary Fund, to organize bailouts for Wall Street investors when their risky investments turned sour in Indonesia, Brazil, Korea, Russia and Mexico. But when American steelworkers asked for similar consideration under existing trade rules, they get short shrift. 
   So my colleagues come out here on the floor and they say this bill is terrible. The government getting involved in any kind of loan guarantees? This is the government running the economy. 
   That's hardly the case. When steelworkers say: How about some relief for us, how about some consideration for us under existing trade rules, my colleagues come out here on the floor and they say, this would lead to trade wars. This would do damage to Adam Smith's invisible hand. We can't do that. 
   I didn't hear those same colleagues when it came to the IMF organizing a bailout for the Wall Street investors when their investments went bad in Indonesia or Korea or Russia. I didn't hear the same colleagues come out and say: Oh my gosh, we have a government institution that's involved. When it's these Wall Street interests, it is fine. But when the workers ask for some support, it is not so fine. 
   The administration is concerned that limiting imports from Brazil, Japan and Russia could hurt their slumping economies. I have some sympathy for that argument. We should all be concerned about reviving growth in these countries. But American steelworkers are not a foreign aid charity. They should not be asked to pay the ultimate price, to pay with their jobs, for the failure of this administration's foreign economic policy. And I might add--given what some of my colleagues have said on the other side--I think the failure in foreign economic policy is also a failure of the Congress. 
   When the Clinton administration, working through the IMF, helped bail out Wall Street investors in Brazil, Russia, Indonesia, Korea and Mexico, it committed public resources. It didn't ask Wall Street to pick up the tab by itself, even though the major industrial institutional investors were by far the biggest beneficiaries of the bailout. The administration and some of my colleagues on the other side are now asking steelworkers to pay a price that they would never ask of Wall Street. 
   I hope we can pass that Rockefeller legislation next week. I hope the White House will withdraw its opposition and sign it into law. I heard my colleague from Oklahoma say that he had talked to Secretary Summers and he said the administration was going to veto this bill. I hope they will change their mind. 
   I say to the administration, you were there for the big investors when their investments went sour in some of these other countries. You used public money to help bail them out. You ought to have the same concern for steelworkers and working families in our country. 
   But we need to do even more than that. We need to widen our focus a little bit and address the root causes of this crisis. I heard my colleague from Texas speak about what has gone wrong, and I want to quarrel with his interpretation of international political economy. I think we should be working to change the rules of the global economy so that these kind of devastating crises do not keep happening. 
   I am not worried, like my colleagues are, about these loan guarantees. They will make a difference to an important industry in our country and will be important to so many working families. What I am worried about is our failure to make some changes in this global economy so we don't keep having these devastating crises happening over and over again. I am surprised I have not heard my colleague talk about this at all. 
   The long-term solution to this crisis is restoring economic growth around the world. The steel crisis was precipitated by the collapse of global demand following the Asian crisis, and worsened by the economic crises in Russia  and Brazil. Excess steel production is being dumped in the United States because our country is one of the few economies in the world that is growing right now. Only when we have global economic growth, only when this growth revives, will foreign steel producers consume more of their own steel production and find export markets other than the United States. 
   Although the administration claims to be working to revive foreign demand, its actions speak louder than its words. In fact, I believe its policies are marching in the opposite direction. They have tended to promote a ``race to the bottom''--a global trade competition that rewards those countries that can attract foreign capital by advertising the lowest labor, lowest environmental, and lowest safety standards, rather than raising environmental and labor and safety standards overseas. 
   When my colleague from Texas talks about the international economy, I will simply say, no wonder we are in trouble with these trade agreements that don't make sure there are some environmental standards and fair labor standards that other countries have to live up to. What you have is a situation where those countries have a workforce that can't buy anything. There is no demand for what we produce. 
   Those countries tried to export themselves out of the crisis, and our working families are hurt both ways. We are hurt because we can't export to those countries, because the people there don't have any money to buy. At the same time, we are competing against people who are working under exploitive, grinding labor conditions. This is the race to the bottom. 
   Why in the world has this administration not adopted a trade policy that makes much more sense for working people in this country, and for working people in other countries as well? Why, when my colleagues come to the floor, do they continue to talk about this international economy as if it were a level playing field? We dare not speak about any fair labor standards or environmental standards or any safety standards. 
   Despite recent encouraging economic news, there is compelling evidence that something is fundamentally wrong with the world economy. First, it is becoming increasingly obvious that the global economy cannot tolerate ever-increasing inequality among countries and within countries. Policies that lead to the replacement of good-paying union jobs with jobs that pay subsistence-level wages only contribute to growing and dangerous imbalances in the global system. Widening inequality at home and abroad depresses the consumer demand necessary to fuel our economic growth. We need to encourage foreign countries to raise their wages and increase demand, so they can consume more of their own production and stop dumping surplus production on our markets. 
   Similarly, I believe we must reexamine the orthodox view that export-led development is the key to prosperity. Not everyone can rely on export markets for their economic growth. The entry of subsistence-wage China into global competition makes this all too clear. Somebody has to buy all of those exports. For too long the United States has been the buyer of last resort, absorbing excess production from all the export powerhouses. While cold war responsibilities obliged us to play that role in the past, we cannot do this forever. If we want to have a manufacturing sector 
    in our own country, we should aim to make exports a complement, rather than a substitute, to healthy domestic demand. 
   Third, we must come to grips with the related problem of overcapacity and excess production. For various reasons, in industry after industry, gluts have developed in the world economy. The problem of overcapacity is now made worse by the recession and deflation in Asia, Russia, and South America. We need progrowth, stimulative economic policies to restore some of that lost demand. Simply absorbing excess foreign production in the U.S. market is not a solution. We cannot indefinitely run record trade deficits that hollow out American industry, put American workers out of work, and lead to growing economic inequality. 
   Finally, I believe this administration must rethink its zealous commitment to unfettered capital flows, despite the fact that this is a top priority of the U.S. financial interests. Numerous economists have agreed that misguided Treasury, IMF, and OECD promotion of capital account liberalization was an important cause of the Asian crisis. The enormous amount of capital sloshing around the globe at lightning speed injects too much instability into the world economy, and it magnifies the dangers of capital flight, which the IMF cites as justification for plunging Brazil and other economies into deep recession. 
   Instead of placing a priority on the interests of Wall Street investors, the Clinton administration and some of my Republican colleagues should look out more for the interests of average Americans, such as American steelworkers. Its top priority should be Main Street, not Wall Street. It should ignore Wall Street's demands for more IMF austerity overseas, which is designed to safeguard Wall Street investments but ends up creating problems that are later dumped on the backs of American workers. The administration should promote worker rights overseas, rather than demanding antilabor changes in foreign countries' labor laws--as it has done for years, to the applause of Wall Street. And it should promote policies that reduce economic inequality overseas by ensuring that the growth is more broad-based and less lopsided. 
   By promoting more robust, more balanced growth, stronger unions, and more widely shared prosperity overseas, we can help create enough foreign demand so that these countries can consume more of their own production and stop dumping their excess production on our markets. That is the core problem. Looking out for average working people here in the United States and overseas is a win-win proposition. 
   We need a change in policy. Last month, our trade deficit reached record levels. Without a change in course, I am afraid this administration will simply repeat the mistakes of the late 1970s and 1980s, when over 350,000 steelworkers lost their jobs and 28,000 workers left the Iron Range for good. 
   This is why I speak on the floor of the Senate, not just to support this loan guarantee legislation today, which we need and which is important, but also to support the bill Senator ROCKEFELLER will bring to the floor next week that I intend to be out here supporting. 
   I am afraid that this administration's solution to the global economic crisis, and I am afraid given what I heard my colleague from Oklahoma and my colleague from Texas say on the floor of the Senate, that their solution to the global economic crisis will be to ask Americans to continue absorbing more and more imports. Their solution will be to ask--mainly unionized--manufacturing workers to look for jobs elsewhere. 
   Mr. President, this is no solution at all. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today in solidarity with the workers at Avondale Shipyard in Louisiana, who exactly 6 years ago exercised their democratic right to form a union and bargain collectively. 
   They voted for a union because that was the only way they knew to improve their working conditions, conditions that include more worker fatalities than any other shipyard in the country, massive safety and health violations, and the lowest pay in the shipbuilding industry. 
   Unfortunately, Avondale and its CEO, Albert Bossier, have refused to recognize the union Avondale workers voted for back in 1993. For 6 years the shipyard and its CEO have refused to even enter into negotiations. According to a federal administrative law judge, Avondale management has orchestrated an ``outrageous and pervasive'' union-busting campaign in flagrant violation of this country's labor laws, illegally firing and harassing employees who support the union. 
   I met with some of the Avondale workers several weeks ago when they were here in Washington. What they told me was deeply disturbing. They told me about unsafe working conditions that make them fear for their lives every day they are on the job. They told me that job safety was the number one reason why they voted to join a union back in 1993. And they told me that Avondale continues to harass and intimidate workers suspected of supporting the union. 
   In fact, it appears that one of those workers, Tom Gainey, was harassed when he got back to Louisiana. Avondale gave him a three-day suspension for the high crime of improperly disposing of crawfish remains from his lunch. 
   The Avondale workers also told me that they are starting to lose all faith in our labor laws. For 6 years Avondale has gotten away with thumbing its nose at the National Labor Relations Board, the NLRB. The Avondale workers said they are starting to think there is no point in expecting justice from the Board or the courts. And given what they have been through, I think it is hard to disagree.  
   In February 1998, a Federal administrative law judge found Avondale guilty of ``egregious misconduct,'' of illegally punishing dozens of employees simply because they supported the Avondale union. The judge, David Evans, found that Avondale CEO Albert Bossier had ``orchestrated'' an anti-union campaign that was notable for the ``outrageous and pervasive number and nature of unfair labor practices.''  
   In fact, Judge Evans found Avondale guilty of over 100 unfair labor practices. Specifically, Avondale had illegally fired 28 pro-union workers, suspended 5 others, issued 18 warning notices, denied benefits to 8 employees, and assigned ``onerous'' work to 8 others. 
   Judge Evans also found that, during public hearings in the Avondale case, Avondale's Electrical Department Superintendent, a general foreman, and two foremen had all committed perjury. He further found that perjury by one of the foremen appears to have been suborned, and he implied that Avondale and its counsel were responsible. 
   Avondale's intimidation of its employees was so outrageous, so pervasive, and so systematic that Judge Evans came down with a highly unusual ruling. He ordered CEO Albert Bossier to call a meeting with Avondale workers and personally read a statement listing all of the company's violations of the law and pledging to stop such illegal practices. Judge Evans further ordered Mr. Bossier to mail a similar confession to workers at their homes. 
   Finally, Judge Evans fined Avondale $3 million and ordered the shipyard to reinstate 28 workers who had been illegally fired for union activities. Pretty remarkable. 
   What is even more remarkable is that Avondale still hasn't paid its fine, still hasn't rehired those 28 workers, and still hasn't made any apology. Why not? Because instead of complying with Judge Evans' order, Avondale chose to challenge the NLRB in court. 
   Judge Evans' ruling concerned Avondale's unfair labor practices during and after the 1993 election campaign. A second trial was held this past winter on charges of unfair labor practices during the mid-1990s. Now the NLRB has filed charges against Avondale for unfair labor practices since 1998, and a third trial on those charges is scheduled to begin later this year. 
   This has been one of the longest and most heavily litigated unionization disputes in the history of the NLRB. After workers voted for the union in June 1993, Avondale immediately filed objections with the Board. But in 1995 an NLRB hearing officer upheld the election, and in April 1997 the Board certified the Metal Trades Council as the union for Avondale workers, once and for all rejecting Avondale's claims of ballot fraud. 
   At this point, you might think Avondale had no choice but to begin negotiations with the union. But they didn't. Avondale still refused to recognize the union or conduct any negotiations. So in October 1997 the NLRB ordered Avondale to begin 
   bargaining immediately. Instead, Avondale decided to challenge the NLRB's decision in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, and has succeeded in delaying the process for another two years, at least. 
   Safety problems at Avondale were the central issue in the 1993 election campaign. ``We all know of people who have been hurt or killed at the yard,'' says Tom Gainey, the Avondale worker who was harassed after visiting Congressional offices several weeks ago. ``That's one of the main reasons we came together in a union in the first place.'' 
   Avondale has the highest death rate of any major shipyard. According to federal records, 12 Avondale workers died in accidents from 1982 to 1994. Between 1974 and 1995, Avondale reported 27 worker deaths. The New Orleans Metal Trades Council counts 35 work-related deaths during that period. One Avondale worker has died every year, on average, for the past thirty years. 
   It doesn't have to be that way. Avondale's fatality rate is twice as high as the next most dangerous shipyards. And it's more than twice as high as its larger competitors, Ingalls Shipyard and Newport News. 
   Avondale workers have died in various ways, many from falling or from being crushed by huge pieces of metal. Avondale workers have fallen from scaffolds, been struck by falling ship parts, been crushed by weights dropped by cranes, and have fallen through uncovered manholes. 
   Avondale's safety problems are so bad that it recently got slapped with the second largest OSHA fine ever issued against a U.S. shipbuilder. OSHA fined Avondale $537,000 for 473 unsafe hazards in the workplace. OSHA found that 266 of these violations--more than half--were ``willful'' violations. In other words, they were hazards Avondale knew about and had refused to fix. 
   Most of these violations were for precisely the kind of hazards that account for Avondale's unusually high fatality rate. These 266 ``willful'' violations involved hazards that can lead to fatal falls, and three of the seven workers who died at Avondale between 1990 and 1995 died from falls. Didn't Avondale learn anything from these tragedies? 
   OSHA found 107 ``willful'' violations for failure to provide adequate railings on scaffolding. 51 willful violations for unsafe rope rails. 30 willful violations for improperly anchored fall protection devices. 25 willful violations for inadequate guard rails on high platforms. And 27 willful violations for inadequate training in the use of fall protection. 
   OSHA also found 206 ``serious'' violations for many of the same kind of hazards. ``Serious'' violations are ones Avondale knew about--or should of known about--that pose a substantial danger of death or serious injury. 
   This is what Labor Secretary Alexis Herman had to say about Avondale's safety problems: ``I am deeply concerned about the conditions OSHA found at Avondale. Falls are a leading cause of on-the-job fatalities, and Avondale has put its workers at risk of falls up to 90 feet. The stiff penalties are warranted. Workers should not have to risk their lives for their livelihood.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would be proud, I say to my colleague, Senator FEINGOLD, to be his first recruit in calling the bankroll. I think it is extremely important. I also want to say, being a Senator from the Midwest, that we talk about the fighting La Follette, and we have a fighting RUSS FEINGOLD from the State of Wisconsin, who I think is the Bob La Follette of this Senate. I thank him for his focus on what I believe is a core issue. 
   Mr. President, how much time do we have on our side in morning business? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Might I ask, so that I know, if I suggest the absence of a quorum, does that time burn off on our part? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take a couple of minutes, actually, to speak on our time. I want to make a connection between what my colleague from Wisconsin, Senator FEINGOLD, was saying about the mix of money and politics and all the ways in which big money undercuts representative democracy. I want to make a connection to a piece of legislation that we are trying to get out here on the floor, which is the Patient Protection Act. I say to my colleague from Wisconsin, who is calling the payroll, one of the things I want to do is maybe just come to the floor and present some data about contributions that come from parties on all sides of this question. But from my point of view, you have a health insurance industry that sort of really basically has made the effort to keep universal health care coverage and, for that matter, basic protection of patients, consumer protection, off of the agenda. I think it is our responsibility to put it back on the agenda. 
   I think we have reached a point in our country where the pendulum has swung too far in the direction of increasingly ``corporatized'' medicine, and it has become corporatized, bureaucratized. You have basically a few large insurance companies that own and control the majority of the managed care plans and, as a result of that, the consumers and the patients wonder where we fit in. 
   There are a series of Senators on the Democratic side--I certainly hope there will be an equal number on the Republican side--that are committed to bringing patient protection legislation to the floor. Some of my colleagues, such as Senators DURBIN, KENNEDY, I think BOXER, and certainly Senator DASCHLE have introduced a bill, and we were all speaking about this last night. 
   We want to talk about ways in which there can be sensible consumer protection. 
   That is really what the issue is: Making sure our caregivers--our doctors and our nurses--are able to make decisions about the care we need as opposed to having the insurance industry decide; making sure you have a medicine that is not a monopoly medicine with the bottom line as the only line; making sure people don't find themselves, as employers shift from one plan to another, no longer able to take their child to a trusted family doctor; making sure families with children with illnesses are able to have access to the kind of specialty care that is the best care for their children; making sure there is an ombudsman program available so that advocates who are there, to whom people can go, do know what their rights are; making sure that when we have an external review process of the kind of decisions that are made, people have a place to make an appeal and they know the decision will be a fair decision--making sure, in other words, that we are able to obtain the best care for our families. 
   As I travel around Minnesota--and around the country, for that matter--I find it astounding the number of people, the number of families, that fall between the cracks. The number of people--even if you are old enough for Medicare, it is not comprehensive. Seniors from Minnesota can't afford the prescription drug costs. It does nothing about catastrophic expenses at the end of your life. If you are ill and you have to be in a nursing home, almost everything you make is basically going to be taken away; there will be nothing left. 
   That is one of the things that strikes terror in the hearts of elderly people--or people aren't poor enough for medical assistance, which is by no means comprehensive enough; or people aren't lucky enough to be working for an employer that can provide them with good coverage. 
   To boot, what happens right now is that people who have the coverage find that with this medicine that we have, it is just going so far in the direction of becoming a bottom-line medicine that consumers are basically left in the dust. 
   We want to have some sensible protection for consumers. We want to bring it to the floor of the Senate. And we want to have a debate on this legislation. 
   The majority party--the Republican Party--leadership has taken to the situation that they want to be able to sign off on amendments we introduce. But that is not the way it works. It not a question of some Senators telling other Senators what amendments are the right amendments to introduce. We should have the full-scale debate. We should be able to come out here with amendments. We should be able to come out here with amendments that provide consumers with more rights to make sure that people have access to the care they need; to make sure the decisions are made by qualified providers; to make sure the bottom line is not the only line; to make sure this is not an insensitive medical system; to make sure that people do not go without the kind of care they need. We want to do that. 
   We are committed to making this fight, and, if necessary, I think what you are going to see happen over the next week and beyond is that we are going to, one way or another, have a debate about this critically important issue. 
   As long as I am talking about health care, I would like to say also that I think the other central issue is the way in which the insurance industry is taking universal health care 
   coverage off the table. We need to put it back on the table. I can't think of an issue that is more important to families in our country. 
   Mr. President, might I ask how much time we have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Presiding Officer for his patience. I ask  unanimous consent, without anybody on the floor, that I be allowed an additional 10 minutes to speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, this is a real pleasure, because one of the problems we have had out here on the floor of the Senate is not enough time to be able to focus on issues that are terribly important, that we really believe ought to be part of this debate and part of the discussion. 
   As long as I see the Chair, the Senator from Ohio, presiding, I would like to thank him for what I think is really his focus, or at least part of his work, which is the importance of what we do in making sure that, even before kindergarten, we do well by our children. 
   I would really like to say before the Senate that I hope we will get back soon to a focus on the family issue. I don't think it is all, I say to the Presiding Officer, Government policy. But I do think it is a combination of public sector and private sector and community volunteer work. It should be a marriage made in Heaven, where we really bring people together and we as a nation achieve the following goal. To me, this is the most important goal. I think this should be the central goal of the public policy of the Senate and the House of Representatives. I think this is where the Federal Government can matter, where we can be a real player: It is pre-K. 
   We ought to make it our goal that every child prekindergarten--she knows the alphabet, he knows colors and shapes and sizes; she knows how to spell her name; he knows his telephone number; and each and every one of them has been read to live; and each and every one of the children in our country comes to kindergarten and has that readiness to learn--they have, I say to the Presiding Officer, that spark of learning that he saw as Governor when he visited elementary school; they have that. 
   There are just too many children who, by kindergarten, are way behind, and they fall further behind, and then they run into difficulty. 
   I just want to say I really am disappointed that, in spite of all the studies, in spite of all the reports, in spite of a White House conference, in spite of all of the media coverage--and to a certain extent there is a part of me with some anger that says maybe in spite of the hype--that we have not centered our attention on what it is we could do here in the Senate and in the House of Representatives to enrich the lives of children in our country, to make sure that somehow we can renew our national vow of equal opportunity for every child. From my point of view, I think there is probably no more important focus. 
   If I were to think about the kind of issues we talk about all the time--solvency for Social Security; where are we going to be as a nation in 1050? Are we going to have a productive, high-moral, skilled workforce? What about Medicare expenses? How do we reduce violence in our communities, violence in homes, 
   violence in schools, violence out in the neighborhood?--each and every time, I make the argument, the most important thing we could do would be to make an investment in the health and skills and intellect and character of our children. To me, that would start with pre-K. 
   The tragedy of it all--it is a tragedy because we are talking about people's lives--is we have not focused on that agenda at all. We don't even have but about 50 percent of the kids who qualify for Head Start receiving assistance; and, if it is early Head Start, pre-3-year-olds. I think it is naive. It is just a couple of percentage points. I don't think it is even 10 percent. If you move beyond low-income and you look at working families, we are lucky if 20 percent of the families that could use some assistance, some investment that would help them find good child care for their children, get any assistance at all. And then, if you move beyond that and you talk about the wages of child care workers, who do the most important work, it is deplorable the kind of wages we pay. 
   On the floor of the Senate, I argue that this ought to be our priority. I argue that it doesn't--it cannot make us comfortable that at the same time the economy is humming along, we have about one out of every four children under the age of three growing up poor, and about one out of every two children of color under the age of three growing up poor in our country. We ought to make that a big part of our agenda--children's education, health care coverage, patient protection rights, universal health care coverage. 
   Finally, I will finish by going back to what Senator FEINGOLD said. 
   I will make sure he is not lonely and out here alone. I will help him call that bankroll, because we ought to put reform right at the top of our agenda. 
   We ought to talk about the mix of money and politics. We ought to talk about the ways in which big money dominates politics. We ought to understand the fact that the reason people have become disillusioned with politics is not because they don't care about the issues that are important to their lives. People care deeply and desperately about being able to earn a decent living, giving their children the care they deserve and need, about livable communities, and about being able to do well by their kids. People care about all those issues and more. They care deeply and desperately. 
   However, they also believe that their concerns are of little concern in the Nation's Capitol, where politics is so dominated by the big money, by the investors, by the givers, by the heavy hitters. They believe if you pay, you play; and if you don't pay, you don't play. 
   We ought to make reform and the way money has turned elections into auctions and severely undercutting representative democracy, where each and every man and woman should count as one and no more than one--that is not the case--we ought to make that the central issue. 
   I heard Senators FEINGOLD, DURBIN, BOXER, KENNEDY and Senator DASCHLE speaking. We intend to bring these issues to the floor, along with one other issue that is near and dear to my heart: That is what has now become an economic tragedy--family farmers are being driven off the land. When will they get a fair price? When will they have a fair and open market? When do we take action against the conglomerates that basically 
   dominate the market? When do we take antitrust action? 
   I heard my colleague talking about Senator LaFollette. When do we take on the economic interests? When will we be there on the side of children, on the side of education, on the side of decent health care, on the side of reform, on the side of working people, on the side of producers? 
   We ought to be there. All these issues are interrelated. These are the issues that we will insist be part of the agenda of this Senate. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, rather than having to put it in the form of a question, I appreciate the way my colleague made the UC request. 
   I come to the floor in complete support of what Senator JEFFORDS is trying to do. One can look at it in a couple of different ways. One can look at it in terms of the numbers in the here and now, but, frankly, as I look at this picture over a period of time, I do not think we have done near what we should by way of investment in renewable energy. That is what my colleague from Vermont is saying. 
   I come from a cold weather State at the other end of the pipeline, and when we import barrels of oil and Mcfs of natural gas, we export dollars and yet we are rich in resources--wind, solar, safe energy. 
   My colleague is right on the mark. I thank him for his leadership. We should be making much more of an investment in this area. It is on sound ground from the point of view of the environment. It leads us down the path of smaller business economic development, technologies that are more compatible with communities, more homegrown economies, more capital investment locally. I thank my colleague for his work and tell him what he has been trying to do is important. He is right on the mark, and I add my support to his effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I regret that I cannot support S. 1186, the FY 2000 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. I cannot support this bill because its funding for renewable energy falls far short of what we need in this country as we head into the 21st Century. The funding level provided in this bill, $353.9 million, doesn't come close to meeting the Administration's budget request. S. 1186 has $92 million less for renewables than the Administration requested. This represents a cut from last year's final appropriated level of about $12 million. 
   This is a very difficult vote for me because S. 1186 includes funding for some very important projects and programs. There are two projects that I believe are particularly important, the Marshall Flood Control Project and the Stillwater Levee. The Marshall Flood Control Project has been under consideration since the early 1970s and was authorized under the 1986 and 1988 Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The FY 1999 Energy and Water Appropriations bill included $1.5 million for this project, and the Army Corps was able to reprogram an additional $700,000. FY 2000 funding will make it possible for a significant portion of the Stage Two work to be completed during this year's construction season. 
   The Stillwater Levee is another worthy project funded in this bill. Although the levee survived last year's high waters, it is in urgent need of repairs. The levee will protect downtown Stillwater, which includes over 60 sites on the National Register of Historic Sites. 
   It is especially unfortunate that we failed to take advantage of the opportunity we had to improve this bill. Senator JEFFORDS proposed an amendment that would have increased funding for solar and geothermal energy by $70 million, and we did not even get an up-or-down vote on his amendment. I think it was an important amendment, and I was proud to be an original cosponsor. I very much appreciate the  leadership of my friend from Vermont on this issue. 
   As we near the millenium, I believe we need a far stronger commitment to a renewable energy future, not the $12 million cut for renewable energy in this bill. For too long, we have allowed our economy to remain hostage to oil, much of it imported. We should all recognize that our addiction to fossil fuels is not sustainable. We fight wars in part over oil, which we then use to pollute our skies, while providing tax breaks to large oil companies. Petroleum has helped us to achieve a very high standard of living in the western world, and oil will continue to be a major part of our economy. Indeed, oil is the central nervous system of the western world's economy. But we have been in need of surgery for years now. 
   In the past, we have risen to the challenge when faced with a visible crisis and rising prices. Can we do it again without long gas lines and with stable prices? I say we can. Indeed, while many see only a future of constraints, I see a future with opportunities. 
   After all, what will it take to stop overloading Mother Nature? Higher efficiency and more reliance on cleaner fuels. And what will that lead to? Manufacturing enterprises with the lowest operating costs in the world. Households that generate electricity from rooftop solar arrays. Farmers who harvest an additional ``crop''--the winds that blow over their fields. City streets inhabited by quiet and pollution-free electric vehicles. 
   That is a future the American people surely can rally behind. Now is the time to rally all Americans behind that vision of the future. But unfortunately, this bill fails to do that. In fact, I believe it is a step in the wrong direction, and for that reason I am voting against it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, one of the oldest boy scout troops in the country, Troop 33 of Minneapolis, Minnesota, is celebrating its eightieth anniversary with a trip to Washington, D.C. to learn about U.S. government. Founded in 1918, Boy Scout Troop 33 has served its community for three generations and produced 269 Eagle Scouts. Troop 33 has conducted extensive service projects, including: flood relief sandbagging in Fargo, North Dakota; collecting food and clothes for the poor; severe tornado damage clean-up in St. Peter, Minnesota; leading bingo games for veterans; volunteering at an AIDS house; visiting nursing home residents; entertaining disabled adults; building wheelchair ramps; serving as a color guard at the Chapel at Fort Snelling National Cemetery; and running a blood donation drive at their sponsoring church, Westminster Church of Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
   The troop has extraordinary long-term continuity. Three families have contributed three generations of Eagles and there are eight father-son combinations on the Eagle list. The troop has also had continuity of leadership, with only seven men serving as Scoutmaster during Thirty-Three's eighty years: Kyle Cudworth, Ted Carlsen, Rich Wheaton, Stan Moore, Bill Braddock, Karl Ostlund, and Dave Moore. 
   Troop 33's current Scoutmaster, Dave Moore, has served as Scoutmaster to over 1,150 scouts over the course of 33 years, representing over 3,000 boy-years in scouting. Now in his fiftieth year of scouting, Mr. Moore, who joined the Troop at age 12, has helped his boys to earn 2833 ranks, including 130 Eagles, and over 5,900 merit badges. Mr. Moore has helped thousands of young people to discover the enjoyment that comes from service and to dedicate themselves to building strong communities. 
   Over the years, the troop has received numerous honors and awards. Leaders have earned the prestigious Silver Beaver Award, the Eagle-to-Eagle Award, and the This-is-Your-Life Award. On the national level, their scouts have received the Whitney Young Award and the George Meany Award. Also, former Scoutmaster Ted Carlsen received the national Silver Buffalo Award in recognition of his many years of service to scouting at the Troop, council, and national levels. 
   The achievements and dedication of Troop 33 exemplify the value of scouting as a learning experience, aiding boys in acquiring leadership abilities, recognizing the responsibilities of citizenship, and contributing to the community.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Madam President, having just returned from Minnesota, I want to speak on the floor for a few short minutes, first of all, in support of the amendment that my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, introduced, which is really the Work Incentives Improvement Act, S.331, which he has done so much work on, along with Senator JEFFORDS. 
   My understanding is--it could be that my colleague, Senator REID of Nevada, spoke about this--Senator KENNEDY came to the floor and said: ``Listen, we want some action on this bill.'' We do want action on this. We have 78 Senators who are cosponsors of the Work Incentives Improvement 
   Seventy-eight consponsors means, by definition, that this is a strong bipartisan effort. 
   The reason for this bill, with all of its support, is really all about dignity. For Senators who talk about self-sufficiency and self-reliance and people being able to live lives with dignity, that is what this is about. 
   I am sure the Chair has experienced this, when you are back home and you talk to people in the disabilities community over and over again, you hear people telling you that they are ready to go to work if only they could be sure they wouldn't lose their health insurance--insurance they literally need to live. I don't know, but I think the unemployment rate among people with disabilities is well above 50 percent; the poverty rate is also above 50 percent. The problem is, when people in the disabilities community work, they  lose the medical assistance they have now. 
   What this piece of legislation says is that we want people to be able to live at home in as near a normal circumstance as possible, with dignity. That is what the Work Incentives Improvement Act is all about. 
   I come to the floor to say to my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, that if he wants to force the issue on this bill that we have before us, the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, I am all for that. If we can get some kind of a commitment from Senators as to whether we can bring this piece of legislation up freestanding, have an up-or-down vote--78 Senators are cosponsors--then I am for that. 
   Those of us who feel strongly about this issue and have met with people back home and heard their pleas really want to respond to the concerns and circumstances of their lives. It is very moving to meet with people in the disabilities community, to have people say to you: If you could do this, it would help us so much. 
   We are running out of patience; we really are. For colleagues who are blocking this and getting in the way of our being able to bring this to the floor and having a vote on this, be it unanimous consent, or be it 78 to 22, or 99 to 1 or whatever the case might be, so be it. I do not mind the 1; I have been on the losing end of a couple 99 to 1 votes in the last two months. If a Senator feels strongly about that, and it is his or her honest opinion that this legislation shouldn't pass, fine. He or she has the right to speak out, to try to persuade others and to vote his or her conscience. What I don't like is the way in which this piece of legislation has been held up so that it is not possible to debate it and vote on it at all. That, I think, is unconscionable. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, again, I appreciate the comments of Senator REID of Nevada. I think all of us feel strongly about this and are prepared to fight it out. We have waited long enough for the men and women, the young people and the elderly people with disabilities who want to work and who will lose health care coverage. We ought to pass this legislation, and the sooner the better. 
   I will yield the floor in a moment. I wasn't here for the colloquy or the suggestion about our mental health parity legislation. I am looking forward to this journey with Senators DOMENICI, REID, and KENNEDY--and maybe I am really being presumptuous, but I hope Senator COLLINS and others as well, because I think the time has come for this idea. I think you can make a pretty strong case there that there is entirely too much discrimination when it comes to coverage for those struggling with mental illness. This cuts across a broad section of the population. 
   I am extremely hopeful that we will be able to pass this legislation, which would make a huge positive difference in the lives of so many people. I want to say on the floor that I am also committed to trying to do more when it comes to substance abuse treatment. We have the same problem there, where people have pretty good coverage for physical illnesses, but for somebody struggling with alcoholism, it is a detox center 2 or 3 days each time a year, and that is it. You know, a lot of these diseases are brain diseases with biochemical connections and neurological connections and people's health insurance should cover the disease of addiction just like it covers heart disease or diabetes. 
   Our policy is way behind; it is outdated and discriminatory. The tragedy of it is that so many people in the recovery community can talk about the ways in which, when they received treatment, they have been able to rebuild their lives and contribute at their place of work, to their families, and to their communities. This is nonsensical. So these will be separate pieces of legislation on the Senate side. But I am very excited about this effort with Senator DOMENICI, Senator REID, Senator KENNEDY, and others as well. I believe we can pass this mental health parity legislation. I think what we did in 1996 was a small step forward. Now I think we have to do something that will really provide people with much more coverage. 
   Having said that, let me just make one other point. When we talk about this whole issue of parity and trying to end discrimination in health insurance coverage, one issue we still don't deal with is what happens if people have no coverage at all. When we are saying you ought to treat these illnesses the same way we treat physical illnesses, what we are not doing is dealing with those that have no coverage whatsoever. I still think that a front-burner issue in American politics is universal health care coverage and comprehensive health care reform. 
   I have introduced legislation called the Healthy Americans Act. Sometime I would like to bring it out on the floor and have an up-or-down vote on it. I think we ought to be talking about universal coverage. The insurance industry took it off the table a few years ago; I think we should put it back on the table and I am going to work as hard as I can to do that. 
   But right now, I wanted to come to the floor and support Senator KENNEDY's effort. Hopefully, we will soon have an up-or-down vote on the Work Incentives Improvement Act. I hope we don't have to keep bringing it out as an amendment on other bills so it gets the attention it needs. This is a piece of legislation that deserves an up-or-down vote now. 
   Finally, also in the spirit of amendments, I will keep bringing back the welfare tracking amendment, because the more I look at the studies that are coming out and the more I talk to people in the field, the more strongly I feel that as policymakers we ought to at least have some evaluation of what we have done. I think it is a terrible mistake not to do so. My amendment lost by one vote last time. I will bring it back, and I hope to get a couple more votes. It does nothing more than just say to Health and Human Services let's get from the States data every year so we know what is happening to the women and children, so we can have a sense of what kind of jobs they have, at what wages, and whether there is child care for children. We need to do that. It is a terrible mistake not to have that knowledge. 
   I want to mention to colleagues that I will be bringing this amendment out within the next week--if not this week, next week--and I am hoping this time to somehow get a majority vote for it. I think it is reasonable and we should do it. I don't think we should turn away from this. It is important to know, especially because in the next couple of years, by 2002, in every State in the country, benefit reductions will have been fully felt. I think we ought to know how we are doing before that happens. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to Senator DOMENICI, I look forward to this work on the Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990614</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, we have Boy Scouts from the Minnesota troops here, and I would like to welcome them. They are up in the gallery. I mention that because the Scouts represent a real tradition of public service. Maybe I should not have done that. If not, I stand corrected. Let me just say the Scouts represent a real tradition of public service, and if Scouts should come here and visit and be in the gallery, then I would be very proud. 
   For the Scouts' information, there are certain rules of the Senate that govern what we say and don't say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak for 10 minutes as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to very briefly speak about the settlement in Kosovo. I speak with a sense of relief that we now have moved toward a diplomatic settlement. At the very beginning, I think it was a very difficult vote for all of us as to whether or not to authorize airstrikes. We had pretty close to an equal division of opinion. I voted to do so. 
   I had hoped that we would be able to stop the slaughter. I thought that it was a certainty that Milosevic would move into Kosovo and people would be slaughtered. We were not able to really do that with airstrikes, not in any way that I had hoped we would be able to, but I do think--and I want to give some credit where credit is due--there are two things that have happened that are very important for the world.  
   One of them is that Milosevic has been indicted as a war criminal. That is a huge step forward for human rights in the world. 
   The second thing that has happened is our actions have made it clear that a Milosevic or someone like a Milosevic should not be able to murder people with impunity. 
   There are many challenges ahead, but I want to just say that as a Senator from Minnesota, I am very pleased that we did put such a focus on trying to reach a diplomatic solution. I would like to especially thank Strobe Talbott for his work. I think it is extremely important now that we meet a number of really tough challenges. 
   I am not the expert in the Balkans; I do not pretend to be, but I do know this: It is very important that we continue to keep our focus on the humanitarian crisis and make sure the Kosovars can, indeed, go home, the sooner the better. 
   I think an all-out effort ought to be made to make sure they can go back to their homes. If we are going to do the weatherizing and all the things in the infrastructure for people to have a home to live in, then it is better to do it back in their own country. I hope we can do so. I hope we can move as quickly and as expeditiously as possible. 
   Second, I think it is going to be real important that all parties to this settlement live up to their word. I think that includes the KLA. There will be an understanding, kind of determination on the part of Kosovars and the KLA for vengeance. Who can blame them? But I do think we have to make sure that we do put an end to this conflict and that the Serbs who live in Kosovo will also be protected and that somehow we will be able to make sure there is some peace in this region. 
   Finally, I want to say, as a Senator who supported airstrikes but who worried about some of the focus of our airstrikes, in particular, I thought there was too much of a focus on the civilian infrastructure. I thought and still believe there were opportunities to move forward with diplomacy at an earlier point in time. I always believe that is the first option, always the first option, with military conflict being the last option. I do want to say that I think the President and the administration should be proud of the fact that they have now been able to effect a diplomatic solution and that this solution, indeed, will mean that the Kosovars will be able to go home. 
   It will mean there will be an international force. It will be a militarized force. There will be a chain of command that makes sense. It is a huge challenge ahead for us. My guess is that we are going to be committed to the Balkans for quite some period of time. I think we should be very realistic about that. 
   I think that we owe that to the Kosovars. We owe it to these people. I think that is part of what our country is about. It looks as if the European countries are going to take up most of the challenge of the economic aid for reconstruction, and I think that is as it should be. I think our part of this international militarized force would be somewhere at 14, 15 percent. But certainly it won't be the United States carrying this alone. 
   I worry about the landmines. I worry about our military and, for that matter, the men and women from other countries who are trying to do the right thing now, being in harm's way. But to now no longer be involved in airstrikes, to see the Serbs leaving, the slaughter being stopped, the Kosovars now having a chance to go back to their homes and to be protected, I think we are at a much better place than we were. Now I hope and I pray that our country will be able to make a very positive difference in the lives of the Kosovars. 
   I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me first of all say to my colleague from North Dakota that I am really pleased to join him in this effort, along with Senator SNOWE and Senator JOHNSON. 
   The International Prescription Drug Parity Act makes prescription drugs more affordable for millions of Americans by applying the principles of free trade and competition. 
   I want to give special thanks to a wonderful grassroots citizen organization from Minnesota called the Minnesota Senior Federation. If we had organizations such as this all around the country, we would have such effective citizen politics, and I guarantee we would be passing legislation that would make an enormous positive difference in the lives of the people in our country. 
   This legislation provides relief from price gouging of American consumers by our own pharmaceutical industry. Those who really pay the price are those who are chronically ill. Many of those who are clinically ill are the elderly. It is not uncommon anywhere in our country to run across an elderly couple or single individual who is paying up to 30, 40, or 50 percent of their monthly budget just for prescription drug costs. 
   In my State of Minnesota, only 35 percent of senior citizens have any prescription drug cost coverage at all. 
   This legislation is very simple. I say to Senator DORGAN that what I liked the best about this legislation, and the reason I think it will command widespread support, is its eloquent simplicity. 
   We are just saying that if you have drugs which are FDA approved and manufactured in our country, and now they are in Canada, for example, and cost half of what they cost senior citizens to pay for that drug in our own country, it shouldn't just be the pharmaceutical companies that can bring  those drugs back in. You ought to enable pharmacists or distributors to go to Canada and purchase these drugs which have been FDA approved, and then bring them back to our country and sell these drugs at a discount rate for our citizens in our country. 
   This is the best of competition. This is the best of what we mean by free trade. 
   I want to be clear. This legislation will amend the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The FDA Commissioner was in Minnesota 2 weeks ago and senior citizens were pressing her on this question. She was cautious. But what she was saying was that we would need some legislation; we would need some change to be able to do what Senator DORGAN is talking about. We would amend this piece of legislation to allow American pharmacists and distributors to import prescription drugs into the United States as long as these drugs meet strict FDA standards. That is it. The FDA isn't directly involved, but the FDA is critically involved in the sense that these drugs have to meet all the FDA standards. 
   This piece of legislation is simple. It is straightforward. It is very proconsumer, very pro-senior citizen, very procompetition, very pro-free trade. As I think about the gatherings that I go to in my State--I bet this applies to New Jersey, I see Senator TORRICELLI here, and Senator REED of Rhode Island--anywhere in the country. You can't go to a community meeting, and you can't go in into a cafe and meet with people without having people talk about the price of prescription drugs. It is just prohibitively expensive. This piece of legislation will make an enormous difference. 
   It could be that there is some opposition to this piece of legislation. I can see some vested economic interests who may figure out reasons to be opposed to it, but I will say that this piece of legislation would go a long way in dealing with the problem of price gouging right now and making sure that these prescription drugs that can be so important to the health of senior citizens, the people in the disabilities community and other citizens as well that they will be able to purchase these drugs, and they will be able to afford these drugs, which can make an enormous difference in improving the quality of their health. 
   I introduce this legislation, along with Senator DORGAN, and we are joined by Senator JOHNSON and Senator SNOWE. I believe we will have strong bipartisan support for this bill. 
   Mr. President, how much time do we have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleagues, when we talk about citizens becoming frustrated and sometimes angry, either two things are going on. 
   First of all, you can find people to talk to everywhere, especially senior citizens who are paying 30, 40, or 50 percent of their monthly budget just for these costs. They cut the pill in half and take only half of what they need, or they cut down on food. It is drugs versus food, or versus something else. They should not be faced with those choices. 
   But what adds insult to injury is to then know that the same drug manufactured quite often in the same place with the same FDA approval purchased in Canada costs half the price. 
   We are simply saying let our pharmacists and let our distributors in our country be able to purchase those prescription drugs in Canada and bring them back and sell them at a discount to our consumers. That is what this legislation says. 
   If you want to talk about a piece of legislation that speaks to the interests and circumstances of people's lives, I think this legislation will make an enormous difference. 
   I am prepared to fight very hard to make sure that we pass this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, though I see on the floor Mr. INOUYE and Mr. STEVENS, two Senators for whom I have a tremendous amount of respect, I rise to speak in opposition to the proposed increases in military spending contained in this defense appropriations bill for fiscal year 2000. 
   I have, I believe, been a strong supporter of our women and men in uniform, especially our veterans. I think we should provide the best possible training, equipment and preparations for our military forces. I understand and know full well that our forces have been asked in recent years to carry out a number of peacekeeping, humantarian and other missions. 
   I voted to support the airstrikes in Kosovo. I have raised questions throughout this conflict. I hope there will be a diplomatic solution, and I hope the Kosovars will be able to go back home. I think we are at the beginning of a huge challenge. In particular, I want us to remember the Kosovars and continue especially with humanitarian assistance. 
   So I think we need to adequately support these activities, and I also supported the supplemental budget for the cost of the campaign in Kosovo. But I am troubled--and I think I am probably one of only a few in the Senate, but I have the opportunity and the honor of being able to speak as a Senator from Minnesota, and so I will--by what I see as a stampede in this Congress toward even greater increases in Pentagon spending. I think the increase in spending in this legislation goes way beyond what we need to spend in the conflict in Kosovo and way beyond what I think a post-cold war defense budget should reflect. 
   This appropriations bill totals $264 billion, and we also appropriated a considerable amount more in the supplemental bill, the emergency bill. If you look at the cost of Kosovo, it will be a relatively small percentage of this overall budget. In terms of manpower or womanpower, even if we participate--and I believe we will--in the KFOR peace enforcement process, we will be contributing about 7,000 troops. The total armed force of the United States is roughly 1.5 million. So this is not a question of whether or not we go on and live up to our commitment in Kosovo. I think we can support that mission without this Pentagon budget at the level called for. 
   I fear that using Kosovo and also some vaguely defined set of ``threats'' will end up--and I want to talk about some of the doctrines that undergird this budget--giving a blank check to the Pentagon this year and in the years ahead. This budget accounts for a little over half of the discretionary spending in the annual budget. That is what troubles me. If you look at the peak of the cold war, currently we are spending, roughly speaking, just thinking about real dollar terms, close to 90 percent--about 86--of the cold war budget, and that is during the height of the cold war.  
   Now, most of the funds in this budget go to maintaining a force structure that is shaped by the requirement to fight two simultaneous, major conflicts and to counter what defense analysts refer to as ``uncertainty scenarios.'' 
   I recognize that the United States faces a number of threats around the world and that those threats have changed during the cold war period--in particular, the threat of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. If we look carefully at those threats, we can see that in this budget too much of the spending is not directly related to meeting those threats but, rather, continues with what I define as cold war priorities. 
   We continue to pour billions of dollars into unnecessary cold war era weapons programs. We continue to maintain a nuclear arsenal that is completely disproportionate to the arsenals maintained by our potential adversaries--an arsenal that could be substantially cut, resulting in dramatic savings, still providing for as strong a defense as we could ever need. 
   Congress has also skewed spending priorities by refusing to close military bases that the Pentagon acknowledges are unneeded and obsolete and which the Pentagon itself has pressed to close. 
   What is especially troubling about the spending in this budget is the Strategic Concepts--the two major regional conflicts concept and other uncertain scenarios--that are, I think, implausible and unlikely. I want to draw here on some excellent work done by analyst Carl Conetta and Charles Knight of the Project on Defense Alternatives in Cambridge, MA. 
   Beginning in the 1980s, the focus of defense planners moved away from ``clear and present danger'' of the Soviet power to the intractable problem of ``uncertainty.'' Along with the shift has come a new kind of Pentagon partisan--the ``uncertainty hawk.'' The uncertainty hawks are engaged in worst-case thinking. Among the sort of nonstandard scenarios, worst-case scenarios that are, for example, talked about with this kind of doctrine are defending the Ukraine or the Baltics against Russia, civil wars in Russia and Algeria, a variety of wars in China, contention with Germany, and wars aligning Iraq and Syria against Turkey, and Iraq and Iran against Saudi Arabia. The Pentagon's Quadrennial Defense Review, QDR, uses unnamed ``wild card'' scenarios to help define these requirements. 
   Now, although both the 1993 and 1997 Defense Reviews link the two-war requirements to the Korean and Persian Gulf scenarios, these were also described merely as examples of possible wars. Officially, the two-war requirement--that we have to be able to fight two wars simultaneously--is generic. It is not tied directly to Korea or the gulf. As the Quadrennial Defense Review puts it, ``We can never know with certainty when or where the next major theater war will occur'' or ``who our next adversary will be.'' 
   It is important to recognize, as opposed to appropriating moneys based upon this kind of strategic doctrine, that since 1945 the United States has fought only three major regional conflicts--one every 15 or 20 years. The regional great powers and peer competitors that currently enthrall planners are only hypothetical constructs, and the world changes all of the time. 
   I will give an example of a little bit more of this doctrine. The prime candidates, in addition to these uncertainty scenarios, worst-case scenarios, for future peer rival status, given current doctrine, are Russia and China. A dozen years of dedicated investment might resuscitate a significant portion of the Russian Armed Forces, but that certainly is not what we are looking at right now--a major military competitor, Russia. The Chinese ``threat,'' even given all of the developments we have been talking about over the last several weeks, is even more iffy. If China's economy holds out, in 30 years it might be able to mount a ``Soviet-style'' challenge. 
   Surveying the prospects worldwide, a Defense Intelligence Agency analyst concludes that ``no military or technical peer competitor to the United States is on the horizon for at least a couple of decades.'' 
   As I have said, I believe we should maintain a strong defense. We face a number of credible threats in the world, including terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. But let's make sure we carefully identify the threats we face and tailor our defense spending to meet them. Let's not continue to maintain military spending based on hypothetical threats that may not arise for decades--if at all. 
   I will argue as we look at this budget, which again makes up about one-half of our discretionary spending, that we ought to consider this vote in the context of where we are heading with these budget caps. I say yes to a strong defense but no to some of the unnecessary spending that is in this budget; no to some of the scenarios that are laid out in this budget and some of the doctrines that undergird the spending in this budget, especially when we are talking about over 50 percent of discretionary spending going into this area. 
   Whatever happened to the discussions we once had about national security at home? If we are going to spend 50 percent of our discretionary budget on the Pentagon--and we are not going to do anything about these budget caps, and we will have to, in my view, take these caps off; there is no question about it. But on current course within this context of the budget we now have before us, we are going to spend over 50 percent of discretionary spending on the Pentagon. And, as a result, what are we not doing? We are not looking at the other part of our national defense. I argue that part of our real national security is the security of our local communities. 
   Whatever happened to the idea that we were going to focus on early childhood development? Whatever happened to the priority that we were talking about as being so important to our country that we had to invest in the health, skills, intellect, and character of our children? Whatever happened to the importance of affordable child care? Whatever happened to the importance of decent health care coverage for people? 
   In my State of Minnesota, 35 percent of senior citizens--that is it, 35 percent of senior citizens--have some prescription drug coverage. The other 65 percent have no coverage at all. Many of them are spending up to 40 percent of their budget just on these costs. Where is the funding going to be for that? Where is the funding going to be for the 44 million people who have no health insurance at all? 
   Yesterday, we had a White House conference dealing with mental health. I would add substance abuse. I have been doing work with Senator DOMENICI--and proud to do so--on trying to deal with some discrimination and making sure that people get decent mental health coverage. 
   How are we going to move forward to make sure there is decent health care coverage for people? How are we going to make sure there is affordable child care? What about affordable housing? How are we going to take the steps in our communities to reduce the violence and to be able to get to the kids--I think of the juvenile justice bill that we passed not more than a couple of weeks ago--before they get into trouble in the first place? How are we going to make sure that higher education is affordable? How are we going to make sure we have the best education for every child? 
   I just simply want to say I am going to vote against this bill, and I am going to vote against this bill for two reasons, neither of which has anything to do with the two very distinguished Senators who are managing this bill. 
   First of all, as I said, I think much of it goes beyond Kosovo. Much of it goes beyond our real national defense. I think too much of it is still based upon a cold war doctrine. I believe we can make cuts in the Pentagon budget and still have a strong defense. I have tried to lay out that case. 
   Second of all, I am going to vote against this bill--I don't think too many Senators are--because I view the vote on 
   this appropriations bill in the context of the overall budget and where these appropriations bills are going. I view some of the dollars spent on the Pentagon as being dollars that we are not going to spend for affordable child care, that we are not going to spend to make sure there is decent education for our children, that we are not going to spend to make sure there is affordable housing. 
   I argue that somewhere in the debate in the Senate we have to also look at  real national security as not just being a strong defense as defined in this budget, which I am for, although I think a strong defense doesn't necessitate all of the money we are spending, but, in addition, we have to think about real national security as the security of our local communities where --one more time, and I will finish on this--there is affordable child care--when are we going to get to that?--there is affordable housing, there is decent education, there is decent health care, where we don't have one out of every four children under the age of 3 growing up poor in our country, where we don't have one out of every two children of color under the age of 3 growing up poor in our country, and make sure that every child, no matter color of skin, or income, or rural, or urban, or boy or girl, can grow up dreaming to be President of the United States of America. 
   I think that has to be part of the definition of our real national security. I think we have to make more decisive investments in these areas of public life in our Nation. 
   I believe this appropriations bill, in the context of the budget, where these appropriations bills are going to, subtracts from that very important agenda as well. 
   Let me finish one more time by being one of the Members of the Senate--I don't know whether others will say--I think others will say this eventually--who says that right now we are in a fiscal straitjacket. We will not be able to live with these caps. We will be making a huge mistake if we don't make some of the decisive investments I am talking about on the floor today. This will be a very shortsighted vision. We need to do much better as a nation going into the next century. And it can't be just Pentagon spending; it always has to be to make sure that there is a peaceful opportunity for every child in our country. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for a few minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I think I can do this in 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I call the Senate's attention to the fact that yesterday, June 6, marked the 31st anniversary of the death of a former Member of this body, Senator Robert F. Kennedy. I can think of no more fitting way to remember Robert Kennedy's legacy than to recall some of the words he delivered to students at the annual Day of Reaffirmation of Academic and Human Freedom at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. 
   Ironically, this speech was delivered June 6, 1966, just 2 years before Robert Kennedy's death. I will read portions of the speech:  
   Our answer is ..... to rely on youth. The cruelties and obstacles of this swiftly changing planet will not yield to obsolete dogmas and outworn slogans. It cannot be moved by those ..... who prefer the illusion of security to the excitement and danger which comes with even the most peaceful progress. 
   This world demands the qualities of youth; not a time of life but a state of mind, a temper of the will, a quality of the imagination, a predominance of courage over timidity, of the appetite for adventure over the love of ease ....... 
   These [people] moved the world, and so can we all.  
   I am reading portions of the speech.  
   Few will have the greatness to bend history itself; but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written the history of this generation.  
   This is perhaps my favorite quote from what anyone has ever said.  
   It is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped. Each time a man stands up for an ideal, or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and crossing each other from a million different centers of energy and daring those ripples build a current which can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance.  
   Robert Kennedy's brother, our colleague, Senator TED KENNEDY, has said that his brother ``need not be idealized or enlarged in death beyond what he was in life, to be remembered simply as a good and decent man who saw wrong and tried to right it, saw suffering and tried to heal it, saw war and tried to stop it.'' 
   I do not presume to improve upon either Robert Kennedy's own words or upon his brother's tribute. I recall the words today only to mark June 6 1968, as a tragic and sad day in the history of our country. As TED has said, to pray that what Robert Kennedy ``was to us and what he wished for others will some day come to pass for all the world.'' 
   I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 5 minutes to speak as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I listened to my colleague, Senator INOUYE, in his opening remarks. He reminded me of an issue that I think is extremely important. Over this Memorial Day recess, the DAV, Disabled American Veterans, organized a big forum in Minnesota. I think they had 130 forums over the recess period. The veterans wanted to  focus attention on our commitment--hopefully, our commitment--to veterans. 
   They were saying there is a whole set of issues that are really important to their lives. Some of them have to do with the ever-aging veteran's population and how we will deal with these needs. Some of them have to do with veterans, a third of the homeless population being veterans, 
   which I think is just a national disgrace. Many of those veterans are struggling with substance abuse problems and they were saying: Where is the treatment for these veterans? But some of what they were saying was, even if you put aside some of these challenges and the flatline budget proposed by the President--and then they were looking at our budget resolution and what we have come up with--it doesn't even keep up with medical inflation. 
   The point was: We are worried about access to services. We are worried about much longer waits. We are worried about a lot of the staffs at medical centers having to work double shifts. We are worried about some of the facilities having to close. We are worried about not being able to get the care that we so desperately need and, I argue, so clearly deserve. 
   I just wanted to say, since I heard my colleague from Hawaii speak--as he knows, I am critical of the Pentagon budget. I admire the Senator from Hawaii, and I absolutely mean that, but I don't usually agree with these budgets. I usually disagree with some portions. As long as we are talking about our Armed Forces, I hope when we get to the veterans appropriations bill, we will get this right, and I hope we will make the investment we should make. 
   There is a considerable amount of indignation on the part of veterans. And they are right; I wish they were wrong, but I have had a chance to see some of this firsthand. They just feel a sense of betrayal. I hope we are going to rectify what I think is a real injustice to veterans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the other matter I wanted to bring up is the amendment to the DOD authorization bill which lost on a 50-49 vote. I don't know whether I will do an amendment on this bill or whether I will wait for the bankruptcy bill, but my amendment had to do with the compelling need for all of us as responsible policymakers to do some systematic and systemic evaluation of what is going on with welfare reform. 
   I want to know about those mothers and those children. I have come to the floor and I have said it is fine that we have reduced the caseload by a third, or thereabouts, but the question is; has the reduction in welfare led to a reduction in poverty? Where are the women and children? What kind of jobs do they have? What kind of wages do they earn? Is there decent child care? 
   I bring to the attention of my colleagues the General Accounting Office report of May 27, 1999, and I point out a quote on page 2 at the beginning of this report:  
   Because there are no Federal requirements for States to report on the status of former welfare recipients, the only systematic data currently available on families who have left welfare come from research efforts initiated by States to meet their own information needs.  
   Then they go on to point out that only States currently provide adequate data. So I will be coming to the floor again and taking up a considerable amount of time. I will be drawing from a lot of reports about some pretty brutal conditions, because I am determined to win this vote. I really do believe that it is not too much to ask 
   that the Senate--for that matter, the House of Representatives--go on record calling on the Secretary of Health and Human Services to call on States to provide the data as to what is happening to these families. Yes, they are poor families, and I understand that sometimes to be poor and to be on welfare is to be despised in America, but I think we ought to know what is going on with these women and children. That is what we are talking about--women and children. 
   So I thought, since I had a moment, I would announce that maybe on this bill, or maybe on the next bill, I am going to come back with this amendment, and I will bring out some of the important reports by the Conference of Mayors, the Catholic Church's Network Organization, which has done some wonderful work, and what the Conference of State Legislatures is saying, and the reports on the rise of homelessness with a special emphasis on the population of women and children. Then, after going through all of that, and also talking about some of my own observations as a Senator who has done a lot of work with low- and moderate-income people, one more time, I will call on the Senate to vote for this very reasonable amendment. 
   We ought to know what is going on in the country. It is irresponsible for us not to have the information to see whether or not this legislation is really working. I say that because pretty soon, over the next couple of years, we are going to reach a drop-dead date where, in all of the States--5 years being the maximum period of time from when we pass this bill--everybody is going to be driven off the rolls. There is going to be no assistance any longer. Of course, we are talking about a lot of women who have been battered, who have struggled with substance abuse, and who have struggled with mental illness. It is not clear whether they are going to be able to work or what will happen to them and their children. It is not at all clear what is happening right now to some women and children in this country. Have we made it possible for them to move to economic self-sufficiency, to live more independent lives? 
   I say to the Chair, who cares an awful lot about children, are these children better off? We need to know. I want to bring to the attention of my colleagues that I want to come back with this amendment, and I am hoping that a couple of Senators, this time around, will be willing to vote for it on a different piece of legislation. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wanted to ask my colleagues whether or not they are ready to go to an amendment right this second, or whether I could have 3 minutes as if in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague that I think I can do everything in 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. No. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have the floor, but I know we want to move forward. 
   Mr. President, while I have the floor, we are going to go forward with the Kennedy amendment. Is that correct? Can I ask unanimous consent that after we dispense with the Kennedy amendment I have 5 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me thank the Senator from Virginia for his graciousness, together with both of my colleagues, Senator KENNEDY and Senator FEINGOLD. 
   KOSOVO 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent, to have printed in the RECORD a very eloquent, powerful and important piece written by President Jimmy Carter, entitled, ``Have We Forgotten the Path to Peace?'' from the New York Times. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will read the relevant section:  
   Our general purposes are admirable: to enhance peace, freedom, democracy, human rights and economic progress. But this flawed approach is now causing unwarranted suffering and strengthening unsavory regimes in several countries, including Sudan, Cuba, Iraq and--the most troubling example--Serbia. 
   There, the international community has admirable goals of protecting the rights of Kosovars and ending the brutal policies of Slobodan Milosevic. But the decision to attack the entire nation has been counterproductive, and our destruction of civilian life has now become senseless and excessively brutal. There is little indication of success and more than 25,000 sorties and 14,000 missiles and bombs, 4,000 of which were not precision guided. 
   The expected few days of aerial attacks have now lengthened into months, while more than a million Kosovars have been forced from their homes, many never to return even under the best of circumstances. As the American-led force has expanded targets to inhabited areas and resorted to the use of anti-personnel cluster bombs, the result has been damage to hospitals, offices and residences of a half-dozen ambassadors, and the killing of hundreds of innocent civilians and an untold number of conscripted troops. 
   Instead of focusing on Serbian military forces, missiles and bombs are now concentrating on the destruction of bridges, railways, roads, electric power, and fuel and fresh water supplies. Serbian citizens report that they are living like cavemen, and their torment increases daily. Realizing that we must save face but cannot change what has already been done, NATO leaders now have three basic choices: to continue bombing ever more targets until Yugoslavia (including Kosovo and Montenegro) is almost totally destroyed, to rely on Russia to resolve our dilemma through indirect diplomacy, or to accept American casualties by sending military forces into Kosovo. 
   The reason I read from this piece today is to build on what I said last night in the debate. Today there is a report in the Washington Post that we are going to be going after telephone systems, communications, in Yugoslavia, as well as bombing electrical grids. This ends up targeting the people there. 
   Slobodan Milosevic has been indicted as a war criminal. He has committed brutal crimes against the Kosovars. But the citizens of Yugoslavia have not been the ones who have committed these crimes. 
   I come to the floor to say to all of my colleagues, I hope you have time to read President Carter's piece. I believe we are severely undercutting our own moral authority by targeting the civilian infrastructure. I think we are making a terrible mistake by doing so. I come to the floor of the Senate to speak out against this and to make it clear that this goes far beyond what we said was our original goal of these airstrikes and our military action--which was to degrade the military capacity of Milosevic. 
   Now this infrastructure is being targeted. Too many civilians are being targeted. As a Senator, I call into question these airstrikes. I think Jimmy Carter has done a real service for the country by writing this piece, putting the emphasis on diplomacy, putting the emphasis on a diplomatic solution to this conflict. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to inform my colleagues about a nationwide event which is going to be taking place the Memorial Day weekend. 
   This is going to be an accountability day. It is organized by the Disabled American Veterans. It is an extremely important gathering. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Let me urge colleagues during this recess to attend these sessions with the veterans community. This is an important voice. They have many important concerns to raise with us. I hope the Democrat and Republican Senators will make sure they meet with veterans as we move forward in this whole budget debate and appropriations. Right now the message is that the veterans should not expect timely care, the veterans can do with less health care, the veterans are not a top priority. We have to change that. 
   The veterans are organizing and the veterans are going to put the pressure on us and I hope we will respond. 
   I thank my colleagues for their graciousness and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, my framework is a little different. Murder is never legitimate, and we have tried to do the right thing to stop the slaughter of people, albeit we have not been anywhere close to 100 percent successful. I have deep concerns about the conduct of this war and where it is heading. 
   On May 3, I called for a temporary pause in the bombing for a focus on diplomacy. I wished we had done that. I wished we had not seen the bombing of the Chinese Embassy. I think we had momentum for a diplomatic solution consistent with our objectives: That the Kosovars go back home, that there be a force there to give them protection, that they be able to rebuild their lives. 
   I say to colleagues tonight that I do have serious reservations about part of the direction in which we are heading. The airstrikes have gone beyond degrading the military, which was to be our objective, and I really worry that we begin to undercut our own moral claim when we begin to affect innocent people with our airstrikes, when we begin to kill innocent people, albeit that is not the intention. 
   I focus on diplomacy. I still believe we need to have a pause in the bombing. We have to have a diplomatic solution. That is the only option that I see available to bring this conflict to an end and to enable the Kosovars to go back home, which is our objective. 
   Once again, I worry about these airstrikes when we go after power grids and it affects hospitals and it affects innocent civilians. That goes beyond just degrading the military. I sharply call that into question. 
   I say to my colleague from New Hampshire, I believe this amendment is profoundly mistaken. It takes Milosevic completely off the hook.  This amendment takes us in the opposite direction of where we need to go toward a diplomatic solution to end this conflict. 
   This is the wrong amendment. This is the wrong statement. This is at the wrong time. Therefore, I rise to speak against it. But I will continue to speak out and raise questions. I will continue to talk about the need to move away from the bombing and to focus more seriously, and in a more concentrated and focused way, on a diplomatic solution and an end to this conflict on honorable terms. 
   I hope my colleagues tonight, however, will vote against this amendment. I hope it will be a strong vote against this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask my colleague whether I could have 10 seconds to have some fellows granted the privilege of the floor? They have been waiting outside. May I do that without taking anybody's time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Ben Highton, Rachel Gragg, John Bradshaw, and Michelle Vidovic, who are fellows, be granted the privilege of the floor for the duration of the consideration of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague, this is an important debate. I agree with both of the managers. We should go on with the debate. I ask the question whether or not I may bring this amendment up after the caucuses or speak for a while but then have some time later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I thank him for two of the amendments. I am committed to having a rollcall vote on the welfare tracking amendment, so that would not work out for me. I am pleased to go on with this debate, and I will come back later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Virginia, I appreciate working with him on the other amendments. I have been down this path before with voice votes and then it is out in conference. I am committed to having a debate and vote on this. I am sorry my colleague is surprised by this. I am more than willing to wait. I think this debate is very important. I will come back later and do this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I apologize. I was in a discussion with the staff on the majority side. What are we talking about here? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That will be fine with me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first, on amendment No. 381, I send a modification to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take a very brief period of time on each amendment. Basically what this amendment says is:  
   The Secretary of Defense shall publicly disclose existing, available information relative to a foreign nation's determination of the nature and extent of environmental contamination, if any, at a site in that foreign nation where the United States operated a military base, installation, and facility that has been closed as of the date of the enactment of this Act.  
   I thank both colleagues, and I really hope these amendments will be supported in conference committee. 
   To make a long story short, when we leave a country, close our base, quite often what happens is that there is some environmental contamination. We want to make sure those countries have access to information as to the extent of what chemicals or substances are there which might pose a danger to their citizens. 
   It is a very reasonable amendment. It is important for our foreign relations with these countries. I believe it has strong bipartisan support. I thank Senator LEVIN and Senator WARNER for their support and make the request--I think both Senators will do this--that this be kept in conference committee. That is why I do not need a recorded vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thought we were going to do two amendments right now: One is on environmental impact when we close bases, and the second amendment is on atomic vets, both of which the Senator is prepared to accept. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The third amendment, No. 382, deals with tracking, reporting on what is actually happening in the country right now with welfare reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. No; I just did-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I modified amendment No. 381. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The UC provides for an hour equally divided. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, yes, I have been trying to get this amendment on the floor for some time. I am talking to a good friend, my friend from Virginia, as I make my case. I believe my friend from Virginia will agree that this is well worth the focus on the part of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. One hour equally divided is the UC. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am delighted if there is not any opposition. If the Senator is going to yield back his time, clearly--I do need to go to the caucus, but I would rather not yield back time. I will try to shorten  my presentation. If there is not a response, so be it; we will get a strong vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am not going to shorten this amendment to 10 or 12 minutes in any way, shape or form, because it is too important to have a chance to talk about what is happening to these women and children and make sure that we track what is happening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. We should stay with the UC agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would be more than willing --if several of my colleagues want to speak on the very important amendment that Senator ROBERTS has offered, I would be willing to bring my amendment up right after the caucuses and go to it right then. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. After we have those votes then I would bring the amendment up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, besides the environmental assessment amendment, the second amendment we are taking deals with atomic vets--is that correct--compensation for atomic vets? I am pleased to do so, and I thank both my colleagues for their help and comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I urge the adoption of the two amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. These are amendments Nos. 380 and 383? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am sorry, 380 and 381. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-26-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to speak on an amendment I offered that would remove some of the frustrating and infuriating obstacles that have too often kept veterans who were exposed to radiation during military service from getting the disability compensation they deserve. This amendment would add three radiogenic conditions to the list of presumptively service-connected diseases for which atomic veterans may receive VA compensation, specifically: lung cancer; colon cancer; and tumors of the brain and central nervous system. It is based on a bill I introduced during the last Congress, S. 1385, the Justice for Atomic Veterans Act. 
   At the outset, let me say that this amendment was accepted and adopted by the Senate just a few months ago as a part of S. 4, the Soldiers', Sailors', Airmen's, and Marines' Bill of Rights Act of 1999. Because that bill appears to be dead on arrival in the House, I am offering it on the Defense Authorization bill. I think this amendment was relevant to S. 4 and it is certainly relevant to this bill. But I mention the history of this amendment to my colleagues in the belief that what was acceptable to the Senate three months ago will be acceptable today. 
   I want to explain why this amendment is topical to the Defense Authorization bill. I believe that the way we treat our veterans does send an important message to young people considering service in the military. When veterans of the Persian Gulf War don't get the kind of treatment they deserve, when the VA health care budget loses out year after year to other budget priorities, when veterans benefits claims take years and years to resolve, what is the message we are sending to future recruits? 
   How can we attract and retain young people in the service when our government fails to honor its obligation to provide just compensation and health care for those injured during service? 
   One of the most outrageous examples of our government's failure to honor its obligations to veterans involves  ``atomic veterans,'' patriotic Americans who were exposed to radiation at Hiroshima and Nagasaki and at atmospheric nuclear tests. 
   For more than 50 years, many of them have been denied compensation for diseases that the VA recognizes as being linked to their exposure to radiation--diseases known as radiogenic diseases. Many of these diseases are lethal forms of cancers. 
   I received my first introduction to the plight of atomic veterans from some first-rate mentors, the members of the Forgotten 216th. The Forgotten 216th was the 216th Chemical Service Company of the U.S. Army, which participated in Operation Tumbler Snapper. Operation Tumbler Snapper was a series of eight atmospheric nuclear weapons tests in the Nevada desert in 1952. 
   About half of the members of the 216th were Minnesotans. What I've learned from them, from other atomic veterans, and from their survivors has shaped my views on this issue. 
   Five years ago, the Forgotten 216th contacted me after then-Secretary of Energy O'Leary announced that the U.S. Government had conducted radiation experiments on its own citizens. For the first time in public, they revealed what went on during the Nevada tests and the tragedies and trauma that they, their families, and their former buddies had experienced since then. 
   Because their experiences and problems typify those of atomic veterans nationwide, I'd like to tell my colleagues a little more about the Forgotten 216th. When you hear their story, I think you have to agree that the Forgotten 216th and other veterans like them must never be forgotten again. 
   Members of the 216th were sent to measure fallout at or near ground zero immediately after a nuclear blast. They were exposed to so much radiation that their Geiger counters went off the scale while they inhaled and ingested radioactive particles. They were given minimal or no protection. They frequently had no film badges to measure radiation exposure. They were given no information on the perils they faced. 
   Then they were sworn to secrecy about their participation in nuclear tests. They were often denied access to their own service medical records. And they were provided no medical follow-up. 
   For decades, atomic veterans have been America's most neglected veterans. They have been deceived and treated shabbily by the government they served so selflessly and unquestioningly. 
   If the U.S. Government can't be counted on to honor its obligation to these deserving veterans, how can young people interested in military service have any confidence that their government will do any better by them? 
   I believe the neglect of atomic veterans should stop here and now. Our government has a long overdue debt to these patriotic Americans, a debt that we in the Senate must help to repay. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help repay this debt by supporting this amendment. 
   My legislation and this amendment have enjoyed the strong support of veterans service organizations. Recently, the Independent Budget for FY 2000, which is a budget recommendation issued by AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), and the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), endorsed adding these radiogenic diseases to VA's presumptive service-connected list. 
   Let me briefly describe the problem that my amendment is intended to address. When atomic veterans try to claim VA compensation for their illnesses, VA almost invariably denies their claims. VA tells these veterans that their radiation doses were too low--below 5 rems. 
   But the fact is, we don't really know that and, even if we did, that's no excuse for denying these claims. The result of this unrealistic standard is that it is almost impossible for these atomic veterans to prove their case. The only solution is to add these conditions to the VA presumptive service-connected list, and that's what my amendment does. 
   First of all, trying to go back and determine the precise dosage each of these veterans was exposed to is a futile undertaking. Scientists agree that the dose reconstruction performed for the VA is notoriously unreliable. 
   GAO itself has noted the inherent uncertainties of dose reconstruction. Even VA scientific personnel have conceded its unreliability. In a memo to VA Secretary Togo West, Under Secretary for Health Kenneth Kizer has recommended that the VA reconsider its opposition to S. 1385 based, in part, on the unreliability of dose reconstruction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-27-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. In addition, none of the scientific experts who testified at a Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee hearing on S. 1385 on April 21, 1998, supported the use of dose reconstruction to determine eligibility for VA benefits. 
   Let me explain why dose reconstruction is so difficult. Dr. Marty Gensler on my staff has researched this issue for over five years, and this is what he has found. 
   Many atomic veterans were sent to ground zero immediately after a nuclear test with no protection, no information on the known dangers they faced, no badges or other monitoring equipment, and no medical followup. 
   As early as 1946, ranking military and civilian personnel responsible for nuclear testing anticipated claims for service-connected disability and sought to ensure that ``no successful suits could be brought on account of radiological hazards.'' That quotation comes from documents declassified by the President's Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments. 
   The VA, during this period, maintained classified records ``essential'' to evaluating atomic veterans' claims, but these records were unavailable to veterans themselves. 
   Atomic veterans were sworn to secrecy and were denied access to their own service and medical records for many years, effectively barring pursuit of compensation claims. 
   It's partly as a result of these missing or incomplete records that so many people have doubts abut the validity of dose reconstructions for atomic veterans, some of which are performed more than fifty years after exposure. 
   Even if these veterans' exposure was less than 5 rems, which is the standard used by VA, this standard is not based on uncontested science. In 1994, for example, GAO stated: ``A low level dose has been estimated to be somewhere below 10 rems [but] it is not known for certain whether doses below this level are detrimental to public health.'' 
   Despite persistent doubts about VA's and DoD's dose reconstruction, and despite doubts 
   about the science on which VA's 5 rem standard is based, these dose reconstructions are used to bar veterans from compensation for disabling radiogenic conditions. 
   The effects of this standard have been devastating. A little over two years ago the VA estimated that less than 50 claims for non-presumptive diseases had been approved out of over 18,000 radiation claims filed. 
   Atomic veterans might as well not even bother. Their chances of obtaining compensation are negligible. 
   It is impossible for many atomic veterans and their survivors to be given ``the benefit of the doubt'' by the VA while their claims hinge on the dubious accuracy and reliability of dose reconstruction and the health effects of exposure to low-level ionizing radiation remain uncertain. 
   This problem can be fixed. The reason atomic veterans have to go through this reconstruction at all is that the diseases listed in my amendment are not presumed to be service-connected. That's the real problem. 
   VA already has a list of service-connected diseases that are presumed service-connected, but these are not on it. 
   This makes no sense. Scientists agree that there is at least as strong a link between radiation exposure and these diseases as there is to the other diseases on that VA list. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-28-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my amendment, amendment 381, entitled ``Provision of Information and Guidance to the Public Regarding Environmental Contamination at U.S. Military Installations Formerly Operated by the United States that Have Been Closed,'' is a simple, straightforward amendment, but one which can potentially go a long way toward ensuring that the United States leaves a positive environmental legacy behind when we withdraw from military bases overseas. As we have withdrawn from our bases around the world, the U.S. military has taken some steps to clean-up contamination at those bases before leaving. But there are still many convincing reports that contamination has been left behind. As the New York Times noted last December in an editorial, ``Fuels, lubricants, cleaning fluids and other chemicals are leaching into groundwater, and unexploded shells linger on testing grounds long after American soldiers leave.'' This is especially true in the Philippines, where we withdrew from Subic Bay and Clark Air Base, in 1992. And it will soon apply to Panama where will finish our withdrawal at the end of 1999. 
   I understand very well that the Pentagon has no legal obligations under our treaties with these countries to pay for a clean-up of environmental contamination. And I am not calling for any funding for such a clean-up. What this amendment requires the Pentagon to do is simply to provide as much information as possible and to cooperate in interpreting that information so that nations such as the Philippines can complete environmental  studies to tell them exactly what has been left behind. 
   So far the Pentagon has turned over substantial information to the Philippine government, but it has done so slowly and grudgingly. We need to be more forthcoming to help the Filipinos deal with this issue before the contamination in the Subic and Clark areas causes further health problems. 
   This amendment is intended to protect the legacy of the U.S. in those countries where we maintained bases. It does not look at the environmental issue as a legal issue but as a moral one. At a time when anti-Americanism may be growing in certain parts of the world we need to ensure that in those countries that are our longtime allies, we do what we can to promote a positive image of the U.S. even after we leave our bases. 
   We will continue to have close military and political relations with countries such as the Philippines and Panama and we should not let this environmental issue fester and become an impediment to good relations. 
   The amendment as modified applies only to bases already closed. Initially I had intended to extend it to bases which would be closing in the future, which would include our facilities in Panama. However, since I understand that sensitive negotiations are underway on this very issue between the U.S. and Panama and I did not want this amendment to in any way interfere with the successful conclusion of those negotiations. But I want the record to show that I believe that we should be very forthcoming in releasing information on environmental conditions at our facilities in Panama as we close them. I would like to see the Pentagon avoid the long delays in providing information which we have seen in the Philippine case by following the spirit of this amendment. Of course, if we see a similar problem in the case of Panama we may have to revisit this issue next year and propose a similar provision to require the Department of Defense to make information available publicly. 
   If we assist our strategic partners in their efforts to complete environmental baseline studies, it is quite likely that any clean-up which occurs down the road will be done by American companies, who are the leaders in this field. Without the information and the necessary studies these countries are unable to identify the scope of the problem and begin to move toward some type of amelioration. Once the studies are in hand they may be able to approach international lenders, such as the World Bank, for funding and subsequently some clean-up contracts may go to U.S. companies. 
   Mr. President, when we close our bases and leave behind environmental contamination, the people who suffer from the contamination are almost always people already living in poverty and already struggling to maintain good health. They do not also need to contend with a toxic legacy left by the U.S. military. Just to highlight one of the most disturbing cases, I want to discuss the situation in the Philippines and especially at the site of the former Clark Air Base. 
   According to a recent report in the Philippine Star Newspaper, a forensic expert at the Commission of Human Rights (CHR) identified 29 persons who were living at volcano evacuation centers who were found to be suffering from various ailments attributed to mercury and nitrate elements left by the Americans when they abandoned their air base at Clark in 1991. 
   ``The clinical manifestation exhibited by the patients were consistent with chemical exposure,'' the report said. It noted that 13 children aged one to seven ``manifested signs and symptoms of birth defects and neurological disorders,'' adding that ``four females suffered spontaneous abortions and still births.'' 
   ``These can be attributed to mercury exposure,'' the report said. It also reported ``central nervous system disorders, Kidney disorder and cyanosis'' among the persons at evacuation center at Clark, ailments he said can be traced to nitrates exposure.'' 
   Earlier, the CHR forensic office staff collected water samples from the deep wells at the evacuation center in Clark and the Madapdap resettlement site for volcano victims in Mabalacat, Pampanga. 
   The samples were later brought to the metals lab of the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) for analysis. In a report dated April 16, the EMB found 200 milligrams of mercury per liter of water and from 386 to 27 mg of nitrate per liter of water in the Clark area. 
   ``These two chemicals, together with coliform for bacteria were found to be present in water in values exceeding the standard set by the WHO,'' the report said. 
   The report recommended the immediate removal of the residents at Clark, and the thorough diagnosis and treatment of the patients.'' 
   Among the victims identified in the report were Edmarie Rose Escoto, 5; Kelvin, 7; Martha Rose Pabalan, 4; 8-month-old Alexander; Sara Tolentino, and Abraham Taruc, who all had deformities to their lower limbs and cannot walk. 
   Rowell Borja, 5, and Sheila Pineda, 3, both had congenital heart ailments. Skin disorders were also found prevalent in other children, while cysts and kidney disorders were observed in adults. 
   The People's Task Force for Bases Cleanup (PTFBC) has pointed out that ``there is more than enough preliminary evidence of the toxic waste problem at the former U.S. bases in the Philippines.'' 
   Among the documents that have confirmed the presence of toxic wastes at the former bases are pamphlets from the U.S. Department of Defense entitled ``Environmental Review of the Drawdown Activities at Clark Airbase'' (September 1991) and ``Potential Restoration sites on Board the U.S. Facility, Subic Bay.'' (October 1992). 
   The PTFBC also cited 2 reports of the U.S. Government Accounting Office titled ``Military Base Closure, U.S. Financial Obligations at the Philippines'' (Oct. 1992) as well as an independent report of the WHO on May 9, 1992. 
   Mr. President, I recently received a letter from the Philippine Study Group of Minnesota expressing their concerns about the environmental contamination left by the U.S. military at the former Clark Air Base. They reported the results of a trip to the Philippines by two young Filipina-American women, Christina Leano and Amy Toledo, who have been working with the affected populations near Clark field and have been meeting with my staff in Minnesota and here in Washington. 
   When these two young women returned from the Philippines, they communicated the concern of the Filipino people about the problems of toxic waste remaining at both Clark and Subic. The problems are of sufficient concern to municipal governments near Clark that they tried to develop systems to deliver alternative water sources to the affected populations. However, they do not have the necessary resources. They said that the concerns of the people near Clark have been front page news in the Philippines and Philippine Senator Loren Legarda will soon hold hearings in this issue. The Philippine Study Group of Minnesota wrote to me, and I quote:  
   These bases ..... have severe problems that demand immediate attention. It is very unfortunate that the U.S. Department of Defense will not admit that they left polluted sites when they vacated the bases. Contrary to statements made by Secretary of State Albright, when she was in the Philippines last summer, the Department of Defense will not even release important documents needed by Philippine Development authorities.  
   We need at a minimum to see that all relevant documents are turned over to Philippine authorities. This includes key documents such as information on the construction of the wells and water supply system at Clark and hydrologic surveys for Clark which should be released to the Clark Development Corporation (CDC). Currently, the CDC does not have drawings or data on the water system and they are trying to improve the water delivery system without the data they need. The Philippine Study Group of Minnesota say they ``are incredulous that the Defense Department will not even release those non-military technical documents that would be of great help to Philippine authorities.'' 
   This amendment would require the Defense Department to do that. It is a simple, reasonable step toward improving the environmental situation for the people of the Philippines. It is a step in the direction of assuring our allies that when the U.S. closes a military base, it leaves behind a legacy of friendship,  cooperation, and sensitivity to environmental justice--not a toxic legacy. 
   Mr. President, we have a long history with the Philippines. From the turn of the century until 1991, except for the period of Japanese occupation during WWII, U.S. military forces used lands in Central Luzon and around Subic Bay in the Philippines as military bases which grew to be among the largest U.S. overseas bases in the world. The main purpose of Subic Bay Naval Base was to service the U.S. Navy Seventh Fleet. Forested lands were also used for training exercises. Clark Air Base served as a major operations and support facility during the Korean and Vietnam conflicts. 
   In 1991, more than 7,000 military personnel were stationed at Clark in addition to dependents and civilian support. Operations carried out on the bases included, but were not 
   limited to: fuel loading, storage, distribution, and dispensing; ship servicing, repair, and overhaul; ammunition transfer, assembly, destruction, and storage; aircraft servicing, cleaning, repair, and storage; base vehicle fleet servicing, cleaning, repair, overhaul, and operation; power generation; electricity transformation and distribution; steam generation; water treatment and distribution; sewage collection and treatment; hazardous waste storage and disposal; bitumen production; electroplating; corrosion protection; and weed and pest control. 
   These activities, for many years not conducted in a manner protective of the environment, lead to substantial contamination of the air, soil, groundwater, sediments, and coastal waters of the bases and their surroundings. This was not unique to the Philippines. Military and industrial activities in the U.S. and around the world have had similar effects. Contaminants include, but are not limited to, petroleum hydrocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons, chlorinated hydrocarbons, pesticides, PCB's metals, asbestos, acids, explosives and munitions. Whether or not radioactive wastes are present is uncertain. 
   The Philippine Senate voted in 1991 not to renew the bases agreement between the two countries. In June of that same year, Mt. Pinatubo erupted hastening U.S. withdrawal from Clark Air Base. U.S. forces left Subic Naval Base in 1992, ending almost a century of occupation of these vast areas of Luzon. Notwithstanding initial Department of Defense protestations to the contrary, substantial amounts of hazardous materials and wastes were left behind at the time of the U.S. departure both on the surface and in various environmental media. According to a GAO report issued in 1992,  
   If the United States unilaterally decided to clean up these bases in accordance with U.S. standards, the costs for environmental clean-up and restoration could approach Superfund proportions.  
   Environmental officers at both Subic Bay Naval Facility and Clark Air Base have proposed a variety of projects to correct environmental hazards and remedy situations that pose serious health and safety threats.'' None of these projects was undertaken prior to U.S. departure from the baselands. A study commissioned by the WHO in 1993, in order to assess potential environmental risks at Subic Bay, identified a number of contaminated and potentially contaminated sites and recommended a complete environmental assessment. 
   Two study teams visited the sites in 1994, under the sponsorship of the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee, and not only found evidence of environmental contamination but carefully documented the lack of existing capacity in the Philippines, whether in government, university, or private sectors, to assess and remediate this complex problem. 
   The health and safety issues are not theoretical or contingent on future development of the bases. At the present time rusting and bulging barrels of hazardous materials are sitting uncovered at Clark. There are reports of exposed asbestos insulation in buildings vacated by departing U.S. personnel. For years waste materials from the ship repair facility were dumped or discharged directly into Subic Bay, contaminating sediments, and now residents from surrounding communities eat fish and shellfish harvested from this area. Thousands of evacuees displaced from homes destroyed by the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo and lava flows which followed have been temporarily housed in tents and makeshift wooden structure on Clark Air Base at a site previously occupied by a motorpool. They obtain drinking and bathing water from groundwater wells. 
   Just beyond the Dau gate, about 300 yards from this evacuation center, is the permanent community of Dau where many thousands of residents routinely use groundwater for drinking, cooking, and bathing. Because of complaints of gross contamination of water from some of the wells in the evacuation area, including visible oily sheen, foul taste, and gastrointestinal illness, one sample was tested at the laboratories of the University of the Philippines in early 1994 and found to contain oil and grease. Limited by laboratory capability, the analysis did not include the wide range of volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds, fuels, fuel additives, and other compounds which commonly contaminate groundwater in the U.S. and in other countries where similar military and industrial activities have taken place. 
   Many of these substances have important health effects when present even in extremely small amounts--health effects which may take years to become apparent--including cancer, birth and developmental abnormalities, and neurological or immunological damage. Moreover, there are numerous instances in the U.S. where contaminated groundwater at military bases has migrated off-base, sometimes for a distance of several miles, entering the drinking water of surrounding communities and posing a threat to public health. This is not only possible but likely at Clark Air Base, only one of numerous sites of concern at both bases, and one which is beyond existing Philippine capacity to assess let alone to remediate. 
   When President Clinton visited the Philippines in November 1994 both he and President Ramos acknowledged that the issue of base contamination would need to be further investigated. However, President Clinton stated that, ``We have no reason to believe at this time that there is a big problem that we left untended. We clearly are not mandated under treaty obligations to do more.'' He went on to say ``.....we decided we should focus on finding the facts now, and when we find them, deal then with the facts as they are.'' 
   Though there may be no treaty obligation to address this issue, there are obvious moral and public health arguments which should compel the U.S. to accept responsibility for environmental assessment and remediation of the former bases in the Philippines. There are other overseas bases in, for example, Canada, Germany, Italy and Japan, where in response to host-country discovery and complaints of environmental contamination, the U.S. has provided assessment and clean-up. After nearly a century of occupation of these Philippine baselands, the obligation is no less. Meanwhile, as the political resolution of this issue unfolds, thousands of Filipinos, many of whom are living in marginal refugee conditions, and drinking and bathing in water which may be contaminated with hazardous substances resulting from U.S. military activities. 
   If these circumstances were to exist in the U.S. the groundwater would already have been comprehensively tested for a broad spectrum of substances and the public's health protected, while resulting plumes of contamination were being mapped and remediation strategies executed. Until we can answer with certainty whether or not this water is safe for consumption, an answer which neither Philippine government, public health officials, nor academicians are able to provide without assistance, and eliminate any identified hazardous exposures, the U.S. may be viewed as bearing responsibility for any resulting health effects. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-29-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will be ready to go, if I could have just 30 seconds to also say on the floor of Senate, when I say ``we,'' I don't mean as in me. I mean the collective us. This is for both Senator LEVIN and Senator WARNER. You also, in a bipartisan way,  through your efforts, were able to put an amendment into this bill that deals with family violence. I thank you. I think this is an extremely important amendment. 
   The problem was that all too often, when a spouse usually a woman--would report violence, there was no real right of guarantee of confidentiality, which we needed. In other words, a woman could go to a doctor and then her report to a doctor could get out publicly. This really will enable women who are the victims of this violence to be able to go to someone and receive some support and help. It is extremely important. Both of you have supported this. I think there is similar language over in the House side. I thank the two of you. This is an amendment I am really proud of. I thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-30-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-31-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-32-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment speaks to the priorities of the Senate or lack of priorities of the Senate. 
   We have here a bill that really talks about authorization, leading to appropriation of hundreds of billions of dollars for defense, for the Pentagon. 
   I will talk about the priorities of some low-income families in our country. Their priorities are how to keep a roof over their children's heads. Their priorities are how to get food in their children's stomachs. Their priorities are how to earn a wage that pays their bills. 
   And their priorities are how to obtain medical assistance when they are sick or when their children are sick. 
   Mr. President, 2 years ago we passed a welfare bill, and as we start to see more and more families slide deeper and deeper into poverty, and as we see around the country some of these families losing their benefits, I have not heard so much as a whisper of concern, let alone a shout of outrage, from the Senate. 
   So I rise to propose an amendment. It is an amendment that I hope will receive the support of every Senator, Democrat and Republican alike. It is simple and it is straightforward. 
   Current law requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide an annual report to Congress. My amendment requires the Secretary to include information about families who have moved off the welfare rolls. What kind of jobs do they have? What is their employment status? What kind of wages are they making? Is it a living wage? What is the child care situation with their children? Have they been dropped from medical assistance? Do they have any health insurance coverage at all? 
   Mr. President, like my colleagues, I had hoped that the welfare reform bill--though I voted against it because I had real reservations about how it would really take shape and form throughout the country--would work. But I have my doubts. On the basis of some of the evidence I present here today, I believe we need to find out with certainty what is happening to families, mainly women and children, when they no longer receive welfare assistance in our country. 
   Since August of 1996, 1.3 million families have left welfare. They are no longer receiving welfare assistance. That is 4.5 million recipients, and they are mainly women and children. The vast majority of these 4.5 million citizens are children. On the basis of these numbers, too many people have deemed welfare reform a success. 
   But to see the welfare rolls reduced dramatically does not mean necessarily that we have reduced poverty in this country. It doesn't mean these families have moved from welfare to self-sufficiency. It doesn't mean these families have moved from welfare to economic self-sufficiency. These statistics, the drop in the welfare caseload, which has been so loudly talked about as evidence of success by Republicans, Democrats, and by this Democratic administration, doesn't tell us what is really happening. It doesn't tell us anything about how these women and children are doing. It doesn't tell us whether or not these families are better off now that they are no longer receiving welfare assistance, or whether they have fallen further into poverty. It doesn't tell us if the mothers can find work. It doesn't tell us if they are making enough of an income to lift themselves and their children out of poverty. It doesn't tell us whether these mothers have adequate access to affordable child care, and it doesn't tell us whether or not these mothers and these children have any health care coverage at all. 
   No one seems to know what has happened to these families. Yet, we keep trumpeting the ``victory'' of welfare reform. The declining caseloads tell us nothing at all about how families are faring once they no longer receive assistance. I am worried that they are just disappearing and this amendment is all about a new class of citizens in our country. I call them The Disappeared. 
   Let me give you some examples. We are hearing a lot about the plunge in food stamp participation. Over the last 4 years, the number of people using food stamps dropped by almost one-third--from 28 million to 19 million people. Some people want to interpret this as evidence of diminished need. But just like the decline in the welfare rolls, there are important questions left unanswered. I hope this drop in food stamp assistance means that fewer people are going hungry, but I have my doubts. If people are no longer needy, then how can we account for the fact that 78 percent of the cities surveyed by the U.S. Conference of Mayors for 
   its ``Report on Hunger'' reported increases in requests for emergency food  in 1998? This January, a survey conducted by Catholic Charities U.S.A. reported that 73 percent of the diocese had an increase by as much as 145 percent in requests for emergency food assistance from the year before. 
   How can we account for such findings without questioning whether or not the reformers' claim of success are premature? 
   What is going on here? What is happening to these women and children? Should we not know? The esteemed Gunnar Myrdal said, ``Ignorance is never random.'' Sometimes we don't know what we don't want to know. 
   This amendment says we ought to do an honest evaluation and have the Secretary of Health and Human Services provide a report to us as to exactly what is happening with these women and children. 
   A story Friday from the New York Times suggests one explanation. One welfare recipient was told incorrectly that she could not get food stamps without welfare. Though she is scraping by, raising a family of five children and sometimes goes hungry, she has not applied for food stamps. ``They referred me to the food pantry,'' she said. ``They don't tell you what you really need to know; they tell you what they want you to know.'' 
   The truth of the matter is that there is an information vacuum at the national level with regard to welfare reform. What has happened to the mothers and children who no longer receive any assistance? In a moment, I am going to talk about some findings from NETWORK, a national Catholic social justice organization--findings that should disturb each and every Senator. At the outset, let me read a brief excerpt from the report that outlines the problem:  
   Even though government officials are quick to point out that national welfare caseloads are at their lowest point in 30 years, they are unable to tell us for the most part what is happening to people after they leave the welfare rolls--and what is happening to people living in poverty who never received assistance in the first place.  
   I am especially concerned because the evidence we do have suggests that the goals of welfare reform are not being achieved. People are continuing to suffer and continuing to struggle to meet their basic needs, and I am talking primarily about women and children. I challenge the Senate today with this amendment. At the very minimum, we should call on the Secretary of Health and Human Services to give us a report on the status of those women and those children who no longer receive any welfare assistance. Should we not at least know what is happening to these families? 
   I have already mentioned the dramatic decline in welfare caseloads. We must recognize that it is naive to assume that all of the 1.3 million of these families have found jobs and are moving toward a life of economic self-sufficiency. After all, the caseload decline has not been matched by a similar decline in poverty indicators. Moreover, since 1995, colleagues, what we have seen is an increase among the severest and harshest poverty. This is when income is less than one-half of what the official definition of poverty is. We have found an increase of 400,000 children living among the ranks of the poorest of poor families in America. Could this have something to do with these families being cut off welfare assistance? We ought to at least know. 
   I have already mentioned the NETWORK report. What this group did was collect data on people who visited Catholic social services facilities in 10 States with large numbers of people eligible for aid, and I will summarize these very dramatic findings. 
   Nearly half of the respondents report that their health is only fair or poor; 43 percent eat fewer meals or less food per meal because of the cost; they can't afford it. And 52 percent of soup kitchen patrons are unable to provide sufficient food for their children, and even the working poor are suffering as 41 percent of those with jobs experience hunger. The people who are working work almost 52 weeks a year, 40 hours a week, and they are still so poor that they can't afford to buy the food for their children. I am presenting this evidence today because I want us to have the evidence. 
   In another study, seven local agencies and community welfare monitoring coalitions in six States compared people currently receiving welfare to those who stopped getting welfare in the last few months. 
   The data show that people who stopped getting welfare were less likely to get food stamps, less likely to get Medicaid, more likely to go without food for a day or more, more likely to move because they couldn't pay rent, more likely to have a child who lived away or was in foster care, more likely to have difficulty paying for and getting child care, more likely to say ``my life is worse'' compared to 6 months ago. 
   Is that what we intended with this welfare reform bill? 
   The National Conference of State Legislatures did its own assessment of 14 studies with good information about families leaving welfare. It found that:  
   Most of the jobs [that former recipients get] pay between $5.50 and $7 an hour, higher than minimum wage but not enough to raise a family out of poverty. So far, few families who leave welfare have been able to escape poverty.  
   Just this month, Families USA released a very troubling study. It finds that:  
   Over two-thirds of a million low-income people--approximately 675,000--lost Medicaid coverage and became uninsured as of 1997 due to welfare reform. The majority (62 percent) of those who became uninsured due to welfare reform were children, and most of those children were, in all likelihood, still eligible for coverage under Medicaid. Moreover, the number of people who lose health coverage due to welfare reform is certain to grow rather substantially in the years ahead.  
   Let me just translate this into personal terms. 
   Here is the story of one family that one of the sisters in the NETWORK study worked with:  
   Martha and her seven-year-old child, David, live in Chicago. She recently began working, but her 37-hour a week job pays only $6.00 an hour. In order to work, Martha must have childcare for David.  
   That is the name of my oldest son, David.  
   Since he goes to school, she found a sitter who would receive him at 7 a.m. and take him to school. This sitter provided after school care as well. When Sister Joan sat down with Martha to talk about her finances, they discovered that her salary does not even cover the sitter's costs.  
   By the way, as long as we are talking about afterschool care, let me just mention to you that I remember a poignant conversation I had in East L.A. I was at a Head Start center, and I was talking to a mother. She was telling me that she was working. She didn't make much by way of wages, but she was off welfare, and she wanted to work. As we were talking and she was talking about working, all of a sudden she started to cry. I was puzzled. I felt like maybe I had said something that had upset her. I said: Can I ask you why you are crying? 
   She said: I am crying because one of the things that has happened is that my first grader--I used to, when I was at home, take her to school, and I also could pick her up after school. 
   She lived in a housing project. It is a pretty dangerous neighborhood. 
   She said: Now, every day when my daughter, my first grader, finishes up in school, I am terrified. I don't know what is going to happen to her. There is no care for her, and she goes home, and I tell her to lock the door and take no phone calls. 
   Colleagues, this amendment asks us to do a study of what is going on with these children. How many children don't play outside even when the weather is nice because there is nobody there to take care of them? 
   Let me talk about an even scarier situation-- 
   families that neither receive government assistance nor have a parent with a job. We don't know for certain how large this population is, but in the NETWORK study 79 percent of the people were unemployed and not receiving welfare benefits. Of course this study was focused on the hardest hit. 
   Let me just say that in some of the earlier State studies, what we are seeing is that as many as 50 percent of the families who lost welfare benefits do not have jobs. 
   Can I repeat that? 
   Close to 50 percent perhaps--that is what we want to study--of the families who have been cut off welfare assistance do not have jobs, much less the number of families where the parents--usually a woman--has a job, but it is $6 an hour and she can't afford child care and her children don't have the necessary child care. Now her medical assistance is gone and she is worse off  and her children are worse off. They are plunged into deeper poverty than before we passed this bill. 
   Don't we want to know what is happening in the country? 
   How are these families surviving? I am deeply concerned and worried about them. They are no longer receiving assistance. And they don't have jobs. They are literally falling between the cracks and they are disappearing. I want us to focus on the disappeared Americans. 
   What do we do about this? I want to have bipartisan support. 
   I was a political science teacher before becoming a Senator. In public policy classes, I used to talk about evaluation all the time. That is one of the key ingredients of good public policy. That is what I am saying today. We want to have some really good, thorough evaluation. We have some States that are doing some studies. But the problem is there are different methodologies and different studies that are not comprehensive. 
   Before we passed this bill, when we were giving States waivers--Minnesota was one example--43 of 50 States have been granted waivers. They were all required to hire an outside contractor to evaluate the impact of the program. 
   After this legislation passed, we didn't require this any longer of States. Now we are only getting very fragmentary evidence. As a result, we do not really know what is happening to these women. We don't know what is happening to these children. The money that we have earmarked is Labor-HHS appropriations, for Health and Human Services--$15 million to provide some money for some careful evaluation. That is what we need, policy evaluation. But the money has been rescinded. 
   What I am saying--I am skipping over some of the data--is at the very least, what we want to do is to make sure that we do some decent tracking and that we know in fact what is really going on here. 
   Let me just give you some examples that I think would be important just to consider as I go along. Let me read from some work that has been done by the Children's Defense Fund. 
   Alabama: Applying for cash assistance has become difficult in many places. In one Alabama county, a professor found workers gave public assistance applications to only 6 out of 27 undergraduate students who requested them despite State policy that says anyone who asks for an application should get one. 
   In other words, I know what was going on. This professor was saying to students, go out there as welfare mothers and apply and see what happens. They did. What they found out is that very few of them were even given applications. 
   Arizona: 60 percent of former recipients were taken off welfare because they did not appear for a welfare interview. 
   We are talking about sanctions. 
   After holding fairly steady from 1990 to 1993, the number of meals distributed to Arizona statewide, Food Charity Networks, has since risen to 30 percent, and a 1997 study found that 41 percent of Networks' families had at least one person with a job. 
   Quite often what happens is the people who are off the rolls aren't off the rolls because they found a job, but because they have been sanctioned. The question is, Why have they been sanctioned? The question is, What happened to them? What has happened to their children? 
   California: Tens of thousands of welfare beneficiaries in California and Illinois are dropped each month as punishment. In total, half of those leaving welfare in these States are doing so because they did not follow the rules. 
   This was from an AP 50-State survey. It was also cited in the Salvation Army Fourth Interim Report. 
   In an L.A. family shelter, 12 percent of homeless families said they had experienced benefit reductions or cuts that led directly to their homelessness. 
   One of the questions, colleagues, is this rise of homelessness and this rise of the use of food pantry shelves. Does it have something to do with the fact that many of these women have found jobs but they don't pay a living wage, or they haven't found work but the families have been cut off assistance? 
   Florida: More than 15,000 families left welfare during a typical month last year. About 3,600 reported finding work, but nearly 4,200 left because they were punished. The State does not know what happened to almost 7,500 others. 
   Iowa: 47 percent of those who left welfare did so because they did not comply with requirements such as going to job interviews or providing paperwork. 
   Kentucky: 58 percent of the people who leave welfare are removed for not following the rules. 
   Minnesota: In Minnesota, case managers found that penalized families were twice as likely to have serious mental health problems, three times as likely to have low intellectual ability, and five times more likely to have family violence problems compared with other recipients. 
   Mississippi Delta region: Workfare recipients gather at 4 a.m. to travel by bus for 2 hours to their assigned workplaces, work their full days, and then return another 2 hours home each night. They are having trouble finding child care during these nontraditional hours and for such extended days. 
   I could give other reports of other States. Let me just say to every single Senator here, Democrat and Republican alike, you may have a different sense of what is going on with the welfare bill. That is fine. But what I am saying here is if you look at the NETWORK study, if you look at the Conference of Mayors study, if you look at the Conference of State Legislatures study, if you look at the Children's Defense Fund study, and if you just travel --I am likely to do quite a bit of travel in the country over the next couple of years to really take a look at what is happening--but if you just travel and talk to people, you have reason to be concerned. Right now we do not know and we cannot remain deliberately ignorant. We cannot do that. 
   Policy evaluation is important. So I challenge each and every Senator to please support this amendment which calls for nothing more than this, that every year when we get a report from the Secretary of Health and Human Services we get a report on what has happened to these women and children--that is mainly the population we are talking about--who no longer receive welfare assistance. Where are they? What kind of jobs do they have? Are they living-wage jobs? Is there decent child care for the children? Do they have health care coverage? That is what we want to know. 
   I remember in the conference committee last year, and I will not use names because no one is here to debate me, I remember in a conference committee meeting last year we got into a debate. I wanted mothers to at least have 2 years of higher education and have that not counted against them. I was pushing that amendment. I remember, it was quite dramatic. In this committee, there were any number of different Representatives from the House, and some Senators, who said: You are trying to reopen the whole welfare reform debate and you are trying to change welfare policy. This has been hallmark legislation, the most important legislation we passed since Franklin Delano Roosevelt's legislation. 
   I said to them: Let me ask you a question. Can any of you give me any data from your States? I know the rolls have been cut substantially. 
   I hear my own President, President Clinton, talking about this. But, President Clinton, you have not provided one bit of evidence that reducing the welfare rolls has led to reduction of poverty. The real question is not whether or not people are off the rolls; the real question is, Are they better off? I thought the point of welfare reform was to move families, mainly women and children, from welfare to economic self-sufficiency, from welfare to a better life. I thought all Senators think it is important that people work, but if they work, they ought not to be poor in America. 
   We can no longer turn our gaze away from at least being willing to do an honest evaluation of what is happening. This amendment calls for that. I cannot see how any Senator will vote against this. I tried to bring this amendment to the juvenile justice bill. It would have been a good thing to do, because, frankly, there is a very strong correlation between poverty and kids getting into trouble and which kids get incarcerated. I think this piece of legislation is creating a whole new class  of people 
   disappeared Americans. Many of them are children. That is my own view. 
   But as that bill went along, I agreed I would not do it if I could introduce this amendment to the next piece of legislation, which is the DOD legislation right now. I hope there will be an up-or-down vote. I hope there will be strong support for it. 
   If colleagues want to vote against it--I do not know how you can. We ought to be willing to do an honest evaluation. I tell my colleagues, if you travel the country, you are going to see some pretty harsh circumstances. You are going to see some real harsh circumstances. I do not remember exactly, and I need to say it this way because if I am wrong I will have to correct the record, but I think in some States like Wisconsin that have been touted as great welfare reform States, and I talked to my colleague, Senator FEINGOLD, about this, and there is low unemployment so it should work well--I think, roughly speaking, two-thirds of the mothers and children now have less income than they did before the welfare bill was passed. That is not success. That is not success. 
   Do you all know that in every single State all across the country--and it depends upon which year, it is up to the State--there is a drop-dead date certain where families are going to be eliminated from all assistance? Shouldn't we know, before we do that, before we just toss people over the cliff--shouldn't we know what is going on? Shouldn't we have some understanding of whether or not these mothers are able to find jobs? Shouldn't we know what is going on with their children? Shouldn't we know whether there are problems with substance abuse or violence in the homes? Shouldn't we make sure we do that before we eliminate all assistance and create a new class of the disappeared, of the poorest of the poor--of the poor who are mainly children? 
   I have brought this amendment to the floor before, but this time around I do not want a voice vote. I want a recorded vote. If Senators are going to vote against this, I want that on the record. If they are going to vote for it, I will thank each and every one of them. Then, if there is an effort to drop this in conference committee because it is on the DOD bill, do you know what. Here is what I say: At least the Senate has gone on the record saying we are going to be intellectually honest and have an honest policy evaluation. That is all I want. That is all I want to see happen. If it gets dropped, I will be back with the amendment again, and again, and again and again--until we have this study. Until we are honest about being willing--I am sorry--until we are willing to be honest about what is now happening in the country and at least collect the data so we can then know. 
   I feel very strongly about this, colleagues, very strongly about this. I am going to speak on the floor of the Senate about this. I am going to do some traveling in the country. I am going to try to focus on what I consider to be really some very harsh conditions and some very harsh things that are happening to too many women and to too many children. 
   I also speak with some indignation. I can do this in a bipartisan way. I want us to have this evaluation. I say to the White House, to the administration--I ask unanimous consent I have 1 more minute. I actually started at 12:30, so I do not know how I could be out of time. I had a half hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-33-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. I don't want to get into a big argument with the Chair. I can do it in 1 minute. 
   I think I have heard the administration, Democratic administration, I have heard the President and Vice President talk about how we have dramatically reduced the welfare rolls with huge success. Has the dramatic reduction in the welfare rolls led to a dramatic reduction in poverty? Are these women and children more economically self-sufficient? Are they better off or are they 
   worse off? That is what I want to know. I say that to Democrats. I say that to Republicans. We ought to have the courage to call upon the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide us with this data. As policymakers, we need this information. 
   Please, Senators, support this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   I have been trying to get this amendment on the floor. This is simple and straightforward. This requires the Department of Health and Human Services to provide us with a report on the status of women and children who are no longer on welfare. There are 4.5 million fewer recipients. We want to know what kinds of jobs, at what wages, do people have health care coverage. This is based on disturbing reports by Family U.S.A., Catholic Organization Network, Children's Defense Fund, Conference of Mayors and, in addition, National Conference of State Legislatures. 
   Good public policy is good evaluation, and we ought to know what is going on in the country right now on this terribly important question that dramatically affects the lives of women and children, albeit low-income women and children. I hope to get a strong bipartisan vote. It will be a good message. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I have a colleague who is ready to go, Senator SPECTER, so I will not take much time. But I just want to make it clear to colleagues that on this vote I agreed to a time limit. I brought this amendment out to the floor. There could have been debate on the other side. Somebody could have come out here and debated me openly in public about this amendment. 
   I am talking about exactly what is happening with this welfare bill. I am talking about good public policy evaluation. Shouldn't we at least have the information about where these women are? Where these children are? What kind of jobs? What kind of wages? Are there adequate child care arrangements? 
   The Swedish sociologist Gunnar Myrdal once said: ``Ignorance is never random.'' 
   Sometimes we don't know what we don't want to know. 
   I say to colleagues, given this vote, I am going to bring this amendment out on the next bill I get a chance to bring it out on. I am not going to agree to a time limit. I am going to force people to come out here on the majority side and debate me on this question, and we will have a full-fledged, substantive debate. We are talking about the lives of women and children, albeit they are poor, albeit they don't have the lobbyists, albeit they are not well connected. I am telling you, I am outraged that there wasn't the willingness and the courage to debate me on this amendment. We will have the debate with no time limits next bill that comes out here. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent to send three amendments to the desk and then have them temporarily laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendments be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my amendment, as modified, be sent to the desk. I believe this has been cleared with the other side. It is technical. There were some original cosponsors, Senator MIKULSKI and Senator HARKIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The amount of money originally was improperly designated. I also added two original cosponsors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me just start out by saying that one of the real weaknesses in this legislation as it is now written is that there is no specificity about the allowable use of funding for school-based counseling or mental health services to all students through qualified counselors or psychologists or social workers. 
   My colleague, Senator SESSIONS, has referred to other activities that can be used to prevent juvenile delinquency, but this phrase is vague. It gives no encouragement to schools to use the funding that they need to have the counselors. 
   The only place where we really might see an opportunity for counseling services would be in boot camps and community-based projects and services, but kids already have to be delinquents in order to receive this kind of counseling. 
   Mr. President, what I say here today is that I do not know about other colleagues, but as I travel Minnesota, what I hear more than anything else, above and beyond the need to get tougher on guns, is, Senator, we need more counselors. We need to have an infrastructure of support for our children in our schools. This amendment is the 100,000 school counselors amendment. 
   This amendment would call for funding from the Federal Government, on a one-third, one-third, one-third matching basis. It would be $340 million a year over the next 5 years. Now, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle may stand up and say: This is $340 million a year. 
   To that, I say to my colleagues on the other side: When are we going to get serious? We continue to talk about children. We continue to talk about our concern for children. Now we are talking more and more about our concern for at-risk children. Now we are talking more and more about how to get to kids before they get into trouble. And what we hear all across our land from our educators, from women and men who are working with children every day, is that we don't have the funding for counselors. 
   Mr. President, right now we have an average of about 1 counselor per 500 students across the land. One counselor for 500 students. That counselor can't even begin to reach out and help some of the kids who are in trouble. 
   This is a huge weakness in this legislation. If we want to get to kids before they get into trouble, if we want to respond to the voice in the country about what we need to do better--and I hear this from everyone in Minnesota--then we need to support this 100,000 school counselors amendment. There is nothing we can do that would be more important. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 30 seconds to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This is a modified amendment. It is for $340 million a year, not $1 billion, as the Senator said. All Senators should know that. 
   Second of all, I get a little tired of Senators talking about how much we care about kids and education, and we can't have our schools and school districts put in some money, which we will match, so we can have more support services for these kids. We gave $8 billion more for the Pentagon than the President wanted. We got money for breaks for oil companies and money for breaks for all sorts of other special interests. But all of a sudden we don't have the money to provide resources for these school districts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I resent the accusation that this is taking up time and delaying this bill. 
   Senator, if you were worried about at-risk kids and helping kids before they get into trouble and wind up incarcerated and committing violent crimes, then you would want to support the kind of support services we can provide in schools. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to respond to that comment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I can do it in 30 seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Senator, I would never criticize your record. You are a friend. But I intend to respond to the remarks you made on the floor of the Senate that this kind of an amendment is taking up people's time and delaying passage of this bill. This is very relevant to what we need to do to help kids before they get into trouble. I am surprised that my colleague, with all of his good work, doesn't understand that. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could I ask a question. We now have 1 minute each; is that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could we have order, please. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I also ask whether this is my amendment on school counselors? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President and colleagues, I have offered this amendment with Senator MIKULSKI and Senator HARKIN. This amendment would provide $340 million a year for 100,000 school counselors, social workers and child psychologists to back them up. 
   Everywhere you go, you hear from people at the school district level: We will contribute money, but can you get some money to us so we can have more counselors in our school so that we can give more support to these kids before they get into trouble? 
   You will not hear your education community and your teachers and men and women who work with children talk about anything more than the need to have more counselors. One counsel for 500 students or 1,000 students cannot identify these kids in trouble, cannot help these kids. If we really care about providing these services, then we are going to be willing to make the investment. 
   I hope this amendment will have a very strong vote. 
   Mr. HATCH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take just a moment. I certainly pay tribute to the--I have not heard more passionate, more heartfelt, more substantive, more powerful oratory and argument on the floor of the Senate than what Senator HARKIN has done. I thank him as a friend. 
   I say to my colleagues, if I can get their attention for a moment--Senator LEAHY and Senator HATCH--if there is agreement to see what can be resolved in discussions while Senators come to agreement with one another, I would be very pleased, on behalf of myself and Senator KENNEDY, to have the pending amendment laid aside and we will just go right to this disproportionate issue, which is a complicated and important debate. I am ready to do that right now. If you want to try to work this out, I am ready to ask consent to lay the pending amendments aside and go right to this amendment and the debate and we have time set for it. I want to make that clear. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I want to ask the Senator one question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask the Senator from Iowa to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My question is really vis-a-vis the Senator from Iowa to my colleague from Utah. The amendment I have been trying to get on the floor is the Wellstone-Kennedy amendment dealing with disproportionate minority confinement. I assume when we listed the amendments that already has a 2-hour limit set. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is fine. We already have a 2-hour time limit on that. We agreed on that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. It is on disproportionate minority confinement. It is the amendment I have with Senator KENNEDY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have another one. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have been waiting on the floor forever. I am pleased at what the Senator from Iowa is doing. The one laid aside is going into the managers' package. I have been waiting patiently. When you put it in order, please put in the Wellstone-Kennedy amendment, which deals with a very important question that we have been trying to debate for days. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This has been agreed to for days. That is right. The amendment, I am assuming, in the sequence that we are talking about is the Wellstone-Kennedy amendment dealing with disproportionate minority confinement. Two hours to be equally divided is the agreement on that. No. 356 has been allegedly put in the managers' amendment. If we can please put this one on the list. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, there are no second-degrees; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-26-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, a Wellstone-Kennedy amendment is listed? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-27-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk on behalf of myself, Senator KENNEDY, Senator FEINGOLD, and Senator FEINSTEIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-28-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-29-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me talk in a general way about this. This legislation deals with juvenile justice. This amendment focuses on the justice part. We speak to what is called disproportionate minority confinement. What that really means, in concrete terms, to use one example, is African American kids ages 10 to 17 make up 15 percent of the population, but 26 percent of all juvenile arrests, 32 percent of delinquency referrals to juvenile court, 46 percent of juveniles in public long-term institutions, and 52 percent of cases judicially waived to criminal court; that is, adult court. 
   In the current legislation, what we have done is we turn the clock back a long ways. In the past, since the late 1980s, we have always tried to deal with this question of disproportionate minority confinement. What this legislation does is to essentially reverse this progress. I think, roughly speaking, about 33 percent of the population, ages 10 to 17, are minority youth. They represent about 66 percent, or thereabouts, of kids who are now incarcerated. The question is, Why? 
   There are lots of different reasons. Let me just list some that come from Department of Justice reports, some lessons that have been learned from some five different States. Some of the factors that can contribute to minority overrepresentation can be: racial ethnic bias, insufficient diversion options, system labeling, barriers to parental advocacy, poor juvenile justice/community integration, low-income jobs, few job opportunities, few community support services, inadequate health and  welfare resources, inadequate early childhood education, inadequate education quality, lack of cultural education, single-parent homes, economic stress, limited time for supervision. The factors go on. 
   But the key to an effective juvenile justice system is to treat every offender as an individual, to treat every offender fairly, and to provide the needed services to all. All youth who come into contact with the juvenile justice system should receive fair treatment. Surely every Senator agrees with that proposition. 
   The disproportionate minority confinement requirement in the current law is bringing about change and focusing attention on the problem. The current law says we call upon States to try to come to terms with this question. We call upon States to collect the data. We call upon States to think about whether or not there are steps that can be taken, and to put into effect some of these programs and some of the steps that could be taken to deal with this problem, to bring about more fairness, to end some of the discrimination. 
   As you look at this graph here, when you have 15 percent of young people ages 10 to 17, African American, but 46 percent of the juveniles in public, long-term institutions are African American kids, this ought to bother all of us. We ought to come to terms with this. 
   William Raspberry wrote in the Washington Post last week:  
   These numbers strongly imply not disproportionate lawlessness, but dissimilar treatment throughout the juvenile justice system. 
   At the very least, they are the type of numbers that ought to prompt criminal justice authorities across America to take a closer look at what they are doing.  
   That is what is so incredible about this legislation right now. It is as if starting in the late 1980s and then going to 1993 we recognized this problem, and in our juvenile justice legislation, up to this bill, we have said to States: You need to collect the data; you need to look at this problem; you need to try to address this problem. 
   This piece of legislation essentially guts this effort, and the amendment that we have offered is essentially the same House language that is now in their juvenile justice bill. It addresses juvenile delinquency prevention efforts and system improvement efforts designed to reduce, without establishing or requiring numerical standards or quotas--that is very important--efforts designed to reduce, without establishing or requiring numerical standards or quotas, the disproportionate number of juvenile members of minority groups who come into contact with the juvenile justice system. 
   There were close to 400 votes--I want my colleagues to listen to this--400 votes in the House of Representatives for this amendment that we now bring to the Senate floor. 
   The current law talked about the need to address this problem, to reduce the proportion of juveniles detained or confined in secure detention facilities, jails and lockups, who are members of minority groups if such proportion exceeds the proportion such group represents in the general population. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-30-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This is from 23 law professors endorsing the constitutionality of the disproportionate minority confinement amendment. I just read:  
   There can be no serious constitutional objection to the DMC requirement in existing law. First, it does not single out members of racial minorities for any sort of distinctive treatment, nor does it impose any burdens on anyone else. The Supreme Court's decisions made it clear that constitutional questions arise, not merely from the use of racial terms in a law--for otherwise compiling census information about race would be unconstitutional--but only if there is some burden or benefit allocated on the basis of race. ..... The DMC requirements do nothing that crosses this minimum threshold.  
   This letter goes on and makes really a very strong case, signed by 23 law professors in our country. 
   I want to just make it real clear that the disproportionate minority confinement amendment that I bring to the floor with Senator KENNEDY is about race. Can I say this one more time to colleagues? Because when you vote on this, please understand this amendment is about race. Please understand that this amendment has the support of probably every single civil rights organization in our country. Please understand that this amendment has the support of just about every single children's organization you can think of, starting with the Children's Defense Fund. 
   Please understand that this amendment and your vote is all about race, because please understand that we are doing better, but to have a really better America we have to do even better when it comes to questions of race and discrimination. 
   Please understand that many citizens in our country do not have complete confidence in the system. When the minority community sees that close to 70 percent of their kids are locked up, when their kids make up not even 35, 33 percent of the population, and when they see that kids of color wind up incarcerated, when white kids do not, having committed the same offense, or given longer sentences, and when they see all the ways in which there is discrimination--and we have not come to terms with what is really going on with so many kids in these communities--it makes members of minority communities in our country very suspicious of a piece of legislation which focuses on juvenile justice but takes out the language we had in our legislation dealing with kids that assures that States will collect the data and will look at this question and try and do better. 
   I am telling you, this is a huge vote. This is all about race. It is about the disproportionate share of minority youth in our Nation's juvenile justice system. It is about helping States come up with plans to enhance prevention, to work with communities. It is not about releasing individuals from confinement because of their racial makeup or about instituting some kind of quota system. It is about fairness. It is about ending discrimination. It is about justice. It is about doing better as a nation. It is about doing better for all of our children, including children of color, and that is why this amendment has such intense, broad support. And it is why 400 Members in the House of Representatives voted for this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-31-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will yield to the Senator or yield the floor, if you like. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-32-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank Senator DURBIN. He would like to be added as an original cosponsor. I would be very proud for him to do that. I ask unanimous consent that Senator DURBIN be added as an original cosponsor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-33-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I have visited some of these facilities and they are pretty troubling. When you visit--I think, again, of the visit to Tallulah, LA--there and there is just a sea of, in this particular case, African American faces, young kids--many of them, by the way, locked up for as long as 7 weeks in solitary confinement, 23 hours a day; that is part of what they do there--it is troubling. 
   I think in the State of Louisiana--I do not know what the overall percentage of the population is, but I think about 80 to 85 percent of the kids that are confined there are African American. Here is what makes this so troubling. 
   It would be easy--I want every Senator listening to this--to simply attribute this large discrepancy to the fact that young people of different racial groups commit different types of crimes.  
   In 1992, though, there were significantly higher rates of admission of African American juveniles for every offense group. Please listen to that, because I do not want some colleague to come out on the floor and say: Well, there is a reason for this. These kids commit the crimes in exactly this percentage or this proportion. 
   Crimes against persons: Black males and females were six times more likely to be admitted to State juvenile facilities than their white counterparts-- 
   same crimes, six times more likely. 
   Property crimes: Black males were almost four times more likely to be admitted to State juvenile facilities than white males, and black females were almost three times more likely to be committed than white females. 
   Drug offenses: Black males were confined at a rate 30 times that of white males. In fact, among all offense categories, black youth were more likely to be detained than white youth during every year between 1985 and 1994. Minority youth were also more likely to be removed from their families than white youth. Black youth are also much more likely to end up in prisons with adult offenders. 
   In 1995, nearly 10,000 juvenile cases were transferred to adult criminal court by judicial waiver. Of those proceedings, cases involving black youth were 50 percent more likely to be waived than those cases involving white youth. Overall, again, black youth were 52 percent of all the children and adolescents waived to adult court, and in most States minority juveniles were overrepresented on average in these adult jails at a rate more than 2 1/2 times their proportion of the total youth population. These are damning statistics. 
   When he was director of the Massachusetts Department of Services, Commissioner-Member Jerome Miller wrote of the cumulative effect of decisions made throughout the juvenile justice process:  
   I learned very early on that when we got an African American youth, virtually everything from arrest summaries to family history to rap sheets to psychiatric exams to waiver hearings, as to whether he would be tried as an adult to final sentencing, was skewed. If a middle-class white youth was sent to us as dangerous, he was much more likely to be dangerous than the African American teenager with the same label. Usually the white kid had been afforded competent legal counsel, appropriate psychiatric and psychological testing, been tried in a variety of privately funded options and, all in all, had been dealt with more sensitively and more individually at every level of the juvenile justice process. For him to be labeled dangerous, he usually had done something that was very serious indeed. By contrast, the African American teenager was dealt with as a stereotype from the moment the handcuffs were first put on, to be easily and quickly moved along to the more dangerous end of the violent/nonviolent spectrum, albeit accompanied by an official record meant to validate the biased series of decisions.  
   I say to my colleague, Mr. DURBIN, I really appreciate his being here. Sometimes when we are in this Chamber, this is our reality. I want every Senator, including Republican Senators, to know, this is an amendment that deals with a very sensitive issue. This is an amendment that deals with race in America. This is an amendment that deals with all of the biases that go with that. This is an amendment that says we should not be passing a piece of legislation which essentially turns the clock backward, which takes the language that we had in our past juvenile justice legislation which calls on States to study this problem, calls on States to address the problem, and calls on States to do better, as many are doing right now, and essentially remove all that language. It is a charade. 
   I will go on record right now--I cannot see any way that I can support this piece of legislation if this amendment does not pass. I cannot see any way as a Senator I can support this. I will put Senators on notice--I think a good many Senators, many Senators should not be able to support this piece of legislation if this amendment, which is the same language passed by 400 Members of the House of Representatives--that has to include some Republicans; am I correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-34-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Does not pass in the Senate. 
   What in the world is going on on the floor of the Senate that we are unwilling to pass an amendment that just calls upon States to continue to try to come to terms with this really huge, stark problem in America? Why in the world am I even out here having to debate this? 
   I am going to reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-35-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. How much time do I have on our side? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-36-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield to the Senator from Illinois. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-37-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I don't want to take too much more of my time right now, because I really want this to be a debate. I will tell you, this amendment does not say you release kids. It has nothing to do with that. And, by the way, most of the kids in these facilities have committed nonviolent crime. That needs to be said as well. I have met kids breaking and entering, theft of mopeds; you name it, they are there. 
   What is going on right now in the country has a dramatic impact not just on these kids and not just their parents, but it has a devastating impact on minority communities. Let us finally please understand that as well. The disproportionate minority confinement, the disproportionate number of kids who are locked up, has a devastating impact on minority communities, a devastating impact on family relationships, a growing sense of anger and isolation and alienation and--my colleague from Illinois is right--distrust of the institutions in our country. 
   This is the final point, before I hear from my colleagues on the other side. All too often these ``corrections institutions''--this needs to be said--do not correct. They are a gateway to adult prison, because a lot of kids get out, and when they get out, they have it on  record that they have served time. They do not get the adequate training. They do not get the adequate support. And as opposed to any real correction that takes place, you have a lot of kids who get out of these institutions who are really, in many ways, kids who have become much hardened and with much less chance of doing well. 
   So there is also a connection to this problem, I argue, in the fact that, roughly speaking, in 1999 one-third of all African American men between the ages of 18 and 26, or 20 and 28, are either in prison or waiting to be sentenced, or have been paroled. Five times as many African American men of this young age are in prison as are in college, in higher education, in the State of California. We have to ask ourselves what is going on. 
   Again, we were making progress up to this legislation. We were making progress. We did something that made sense to our States. We called upon our States to really look at this problem and try to address this problem. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-38-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. There have been statements made on the floor of the Senate on this question that I want everybody in the country to know about. I want to have a chance to address these questions. We certainly will use the rest of our time. 
   I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Wisconsin. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-39-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, just before we go forward with this time, I understand the Senator from California is going to make a request. For just a moment, before I get started responding, could I ask unanimous consent that this time not be counted against any of ours because there may be an interruption here for another amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-40-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, we would not count this time. I am trying to be accommodating to Senators over here who may want to briefly do an amendment, and then let us use our last 10 minutes. I just want to see---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-41-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. OK. I guess that did not work. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-42-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, colleagues, 15 percent, ages 10 to 17, of the kids in this country are black; 26 percent of all juvenile arrests are black; 32 percent of delinquency referrals to juvenile court are black; 46 percent of juveniles in public long-term institutions are black; cases judicially waived to  criminal court, for 52 percent they are black. 
   This is a civil rights issue. I cannot believe what I have heard on the floor of the Senate tonight. We have been told there are more black kids who are incarcerated because they commit more crimes. We have been told that these statistics, whether it be for African American or Latino or Native American or Southeast Asian, they are a reflection of the number of kids who commit the crimes and who get the justice they deserve. 
   We have already recited study after study after study that shows for the same crime many of these kids get stiffer sentences or many of these kids wind up incarcerated as opposed to other kids. This is all about race. I cannot believe that I have heard on the floor of the Senate an argument that race is not the critical consideration. 
   When the police are out there in the streets, and we get to which kids are searched on the streets and which kids are not, you don't think that has anything to do with race? When we get to the question of which kids are arrested and which kids are not, you don't think that has anything to do with race today in America? 
   When we get to the question of the evaluation of youth by probation officers, you don't think that has anything to do with race? When we get to the question of the decision whether to release or detain by a judge, based upon who has the money and who does not have the money to put up a bond, you don't think that has anything to do with race, Senators? 
   When we get to the question of sentencing, you don't think that has anything to do with race? You are sleepwalking through history. You are sleepwalking through history. 
   This is all about race. This is a civil rights issue and this is a civil rights vote. Let me just say, when I hear my colleague argue that this amendment is unconstitutional because it makes a racial classification, that claim is outrageous. This amendment does not treat anybody differently on the basis of race, and you know it. It does not treat anybody differently. The Supreme Court cases cited have nothing to do with this question. Adarand was about who gets construction contracts. 
   You know what this amendment is about? This amendment is about preventing the majority party--I hope not too many in the majority party--from repealing the existing protections that we now have in law that have never been challenged as being unconstitutional that make sure there is some core requirement that calls upon States, to do what? To collect the data and to study the problem, and to try and do something about it. 
   You are going to vote against this amendment? You go ahead. You go ahead and vote against this amendment, if that is what you want to do. 
   I think it would be tragic if we didn't have strong support for this amendment. This is all about race. This is a civil rights vote. This is why there is such strong sentiment on behalf of this amendment. This is why every civil rights organization has been involved in this amendment. This is why so many of the children's organizations, like CDF, are involved. We have had the core requirement in our legislation. It has been there since 1992 or 1993. It calls upon States to study the question and to try to do better. 
   And they are doing better. We are making progress. And now you want to discard this? You want to toss this overboard? 
   This is all about race. I cannot believe that any Senator in this Chamber believes that these statistics are a reflection of who commits the crimes and who deserves to be incarcerated. My God, I cannot believe it. I cannot believe it. 
   If you want to turn the clock back on some progress we have made, some racial progress we have made that is so important to kids, so important to communities of color, and so important to the Nation, you will be making a tragic mistake. That is why there were 400 votes for legislation that embodies the very language that we have in our amendment in the House of Representatives. 
   I hope we have bipartisan support for this amendment tonight. I reserve the remainder of my time, because I want to respond to whatever else might be said on the floor of the Senate on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-43-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-44-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, in all due respect to my colleague from Utah, I don't think anybody in the civil rights community all across this land will be reassured. I will work with you on the language. With all due respect, some of these arguments about surely you are not for letting blacks out of jail --of course not. The Senator knows what the amendment says. The Senator knows it is not about quotas; it is not about letting anybody out of jail. The Senator knows this is all about calling on States to study the problem. The Senator knows that. We have had this core protection since 1993. Why do you think it is the case? There has been a history for this. It started in 1988. Then we passed this amendment in 1993. It is based upon all kinds of studies, all kinds of work, which has provided the empirical evidence, which should be of no surprise to any Senator here, that we have a problem in our country of disproportionate minority confinement. 
   We want to try to understand why minority kids who represent about 33 percent of the population represent about 66 percent of the kids who are locked up. We want to come to terms with that. Could it have anything to do with their race, in terms of who gets swept up in the streets? Could it have anything to do with who actually ends up getting a good evaluation or not by a probation officer? Could it have anything to do with who is released or detained by a judge? Could it have anything to do with who is sentenced and for how long a period of time? 
   My colleague doesn't think race has anything to do with this. If you don't think race has anything to do with this, that we don't have any problem with discrimination in our country, or that States right now are collecting data and trying 
   to come to terms with this problem, which is exactly what our amendment says--continue with this good work--then you should not vote for this amendment. But if you think this is an issue that deals with race in America, that this is a civil rights question, and you think it was a good thing that we had this core protection, this core requirement in our juvenile justice legislation and it would be a tragic mistake for us to take this protection out that just calls for States to study the problem and try to redress the problem, then you should vote for this amendment. 
   This is the language of the amendment:  
   Address juvenile delinquency prevention efforts and system improvement efforts designed to reduce, without establishing or requiring numerical standards or quotas, the disproportionate number of juvenile members of minority groups who come into contact with the juvenile justice system.  
   Senators, Democrats and Republicans alike, that is what you are voting on. This is a civil rights vote. The more I hear my colleagues speak on the floor of the Senate--I think what has been said is heartfelt, but it is historic. Some Senators don't think there is an issue with discrimination. There are some Senators who don't think there is a problem of disproportional sentencing. There are some Senators who think we should remove this protection. There are some Senators who want to turn the clock back. But I am telling you, this is a central issue for the civil rights community in this country and for child advocacy groups. 
   I certainly hope we will be able to pass this amendment. If we don't pass this amendment, this juvenile justice legislation will have taken a step backward when it comes to justice. I don't think it will be a piece of legislation that will be worth supporting. I don't think Senators should support legislation that turns the clock back on the progress we have made dealing with racial justice. I don't think Senators should support that, and I think Senators should support this amendment. This is the civil rights question, the civil rights issue, and the civil rights vote on this bill. My good friend from Utah doesn't want to say that. He doesn't want to face up to that reality, but that is what this vote is all about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-45-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Can I ask one question: Do we have a minute each, or are we not doing that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-46-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I just wanted to know. I prefer to have 1 minute to summarize. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-47-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. This amendment simply maintains the current core protections in current law. It requires States to study and assess the problem of disproportionate minority confinement. It does not require quotas. It is not unconstitutional. It does not require States and localities to release those in confinement. 
   This amendment is about fairness. It is about equal justice under the law. This is a civil rights vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague from North Carolina, I was thinking to myself that one of the things that rarely gets written about regarding politics, and it is almost the thing I have enjoyed the most about being a Senator, is the kind of friendships that develop here. 
   Senator HELMS and I are not exactly in agreement on most issues, and Admiral Nance and I weren't in agreement on most issues, but I tell you something, I came to love that man and I will never forget him. I agree with what everybody has said about his impact on the Senate. 
   I think it started a couple of years ago; I would be walking with a bad knee and Bud would ask me how I was doing. We would start talking, and then we would talk more. It came to the point, Senator HELMS, where I just decided--I never had a chance to know the admiral in the same way Senator HELMS knew him as a dear friend, or the way some of my other colleagues have known him over the years--I just reached the conclusion that this was a man I really believed in. I hope and pray he felt the same way about me. 
   I think he represented the very best of treating people well, the best of being willing to stand up for what you believe in, the best of patriotism, the best of public service. As far as I am concerned, there are certain people you meet whom you never forget. They are with you for the rest of your life. I celebrate this man's life. In all the work I will get a chance to do as a Senator or as a teacher, or whatever I do, I will always try--I will never succeed--to live up to Bud's example. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am ready with an amendment. I inquire as to what the situation is right now on the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I actually will not ask unanimous consent because there is nobody here on the majority party side. I want to go forward with an amendment on the juvenile justice bill, but I guess I will wait until Senator HATCH comes to the floor. 
   I will, therefore, speak a little about an amendment I will offer. That way, it certainly will not be tricky or sneaky on my part. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am going to offer an amendment with Senator KENNEDY. We will be joined by other Senators as well. The operative language of this amendment, to give it some context, calls upon the States to ``address juvenile delinquency prevention efforts and system improvement efforts designed to reduce, without establishing or requiring numerical standards or quotas''--we make that explicit; nobody is talking about any quotas--``the disproportionate number of juvenile members of racial minority groups who come into contact with the juvenile justice system.'' 
   With some charts and with some numbers, I will be able to talk about this amendment, as will other Senators. I want, for the record, to make it clear that since we are in a debate about whether or not we are ready to proceed, I am on the floor with an amendment. I am ready to go. 
   This particular amendment says that in our past juvenile justice legislation, most recently an amendment that was adopted by the Senate and the House in 1993, we said to States, including my own State of Minnesota: You have a situation where you have kids, young people, minorities incarcerated all out of proportion to the percentage of the population in your State. So that if you have, let's say, a 7 or 8 or 10 percent minority population but, in your juvenile justice system or correctional facilities, close to 40 or 50 percent of the kids incarcerated are kids of color, what we said back in 1993, based upon some very good work by some very good people in this field was, States, please take a look at your situation. Please collect the data. Please look at the why of this and see what kind of strategies and programs you can develop and implement to improve upon the situation. That is what this is all about. 
   For some reason in this bill that is before us, this language has been  dropped. There are some 40 States that are working on this. There are some States that are doing a very good job, but as a Senator, I am not about to let the Senate turn the clock back. I am not about to let us, all of a sudden, say that we no longer are interested in calling upon States to deal with this problem of disproportionate minority confinement. I do not think we should do so. We cannot pass quotas. We never should. We cannot tell States how many kids should be incarcerated, for what crimes and all the rest. 
   What we can say is when you have disproportionate minority confinement, when you have a situation where all too many times kids of color are given much stiffer sentences for having committed the same offenses as white kids, we want to know what is going on. 
   What this legislation does--and it purports to be juvenile justice legislation--is take the justice out. It takes the justice out. The justice would be to make sure there is no discrimination. The justice would be to make sure there is fairness. The justice would be to make sure there is justice. 
   The reason I mention this is that not only do the kids of color all too often find themselves way out of proportion to their numbers in the State to be incarcerated but also to wind up in adult facilities. Moreover, these corrections facilities, if you want to call them corrections facilities, all too often become the gateway to kids then being imprisoned in adult life. 
   It is astounding, but in 1999, going into a new century, one-third of all African American men, I think ages 20 to 26, are either in prison or on parole or they are waiting to be sentenced. 
   I did not make an argument here on the floor of the Senate that we should not hold all citizens, regardless of color of skin, accountable for crimes committed. That is not my argument. But my argument is, when we have some concern about possible discrimination, then let's at least be willing to study the problem. 
   I see my colleague coming in. I want to, when the Senator from Utah gets settled in, try to explain the situation. I will give my colleague time to catch his breath. 
   I say to Senator HATCH, I did not want to ask unanimous consent to offer an amendment because I did not see anybody on the other side. I was saying to the Chair that I am ready to go forward with an amendment, this one dealing with disproportionate minority confinement, because I know you want to move the bill forward. 
   I have been in contact with Senator KENNEDY, and if you are ready, I am certainly ready to debate it, and we will try to do it within a reasonable time limit. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Let me say to my colleague that I think I will continue to, rather than go into a quorum call, speak about the subject matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That might help. I want to make it crystal clear that I am ready to go forward with this amendment. I am not asking unanimous consent that I be able to send this amendment to the desk because I guess until we have this agreement, then it most likely would be rejected. But I am ready for debate on this amendment. 
   Let me just say that when we get into the thick of this debate, I want to just bring to the attention of Senators, Democrats and Republicans alike, the strong support, the strong passionate support for this amendment on the part of the civil rights community in this country, broadly defined, on the part of children's organizations, broadly defined, and on the part of lawyers and people who have been down in the trenches working with kids for years. 
   This is an extremely important amendment that speaks to a fundamental flaw in this legislation. So, for the record, I am ready to offer this amendment. I will wait for the majority leader to come out. 
   I ask my colleague from Utah, who is leaving, could I ask unanimous consent that when we go to amendments on the juvenile justice bill, that this be the first amendment up? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, while we are waiting, let me just repeat a little bit of what I said yesterday. I have been speaking with some other Senators about this as well. While I understand that we have a very crowded schedule, I do believe that the Senate should take some time this week to discuss or to debate our military action in Kosovo. 
   I have spoken now for the last several weeks about this. I will not repeat all that I have said. Next time I come to the floor with specific proposals and ideas, I hope to be able to do that with other Senators. And I see my colleague from Washington is on the floor, so I am going to yield in about 30 seconds, if I can. But quite apart from what specific proposals I want to make as a Senator about where we are and where I believe we must go as a nation, I want to make a larger point right now, which is I believe the Senate ought to be debating this question. I believe we should have full discussion and full debate. 
   One thing I am certain of--and I mentioned this yesterday--when we voted on authorizing airstrikes, I asked my colleague, Senator BIDEN, what is the purpose? I read yesterday from the RECORD; and in the RECORD it was stated hopefully to be able to stop the slaughter, hopefully to be able to get Milosevic to the bargaining table, and to degrade the military force. 
   I think in light of the last 8 weeks and what has happened, in many ways the objectives have changed. The objectives have changed. The bombing is more than just degrading the military force. It has a different set of goals. 
   I am not even right now going to argue about the pluses and the minuses of all that. I think it is irresponsible for the Senate not to take up this question and not to have positive--not hateful, not demagogic--really thoughtful, substantive discussion and debate. 
   I know we have other business right now, but I am going to come back very soon and try to push this question much harder. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mrs. MURRAY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Might I ask a question first? I am sorry. I do not intend to take a lot of time. 
   Is there a time limit on this amendment tonight? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, this amendment goes right to the heart of this legislation. If we are serious about youth violence, one of the things we want to do is help kids before they get into trouble. 
   This amendment would authorize grant money which would go to the community level for counselors and courts and schools and health care providers and teachers and battered women programs to provide support and help to those children who witness violence in their homes. 
   We have focused on the violence against the adult--usually the woman, I am very sorry to say. But one of the things I found around the country, I say to my colleagues, is that we have not provided the support for kids. If you care about this issue of family violence, and if you care about trying to get more support for children who witness this and see it all the time and then cannot do well in school and are in trouble, then you need to support this amendment. 
   In the bill right now, the language is not specific; it is very weak. It just simply talks about kids at risk, but it does not focus specifically on the problem of violence in homes and the effects on children who witness this violence. This is one of the best amendments we could support. 
   For those of you who have done this work dealing with the issues of family violence, for those of you who care about reducing violence in families and supporting children, this is really an important amendment. I hope it will have strong support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today, I am joined by Senator MURRAY and Senator SCHUMER in introducing the Battered Women's Economic Security Act. Battered women face tremendous economic barriers when they leave their abusive relationships and set out to make a new life for themselves and their children. Our bill addresses the numerous and critical issues that victims of domestic violence face as they try to escape the violence in their lives. 
   I know that Senator MURRAY joins me in applauding Senator BIDEN's efforts in crafting legislation to reauthorize the programs in the Violence Against Women Act. As I and many of my colleagues have heard from folks back home, these programs have provided invaluable and life saving resources to battered women and their families. I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan bill that Senator BIDEN has developed to build on the success of VAWA I and expand those programs. 
   As a result of VAWA I, we now have an infrastructure in place that helps the community respond to this violence. VAWA provides the resources to enable local law enforcement and the courts prosecute those who batter women. And many other programs are now in place to help women leave their abusers. 
   But, when a woman does take the initial step to leave her abuser and seek help, she is beginning a journey that is filled with obstacles, largest of which are economic. All to often battered women stay with their abuser because of the economic support he provides for her and her children. Now that we have begun to build an infrastructure that provides for the initial immediate needs of shelter and legal services, we need to look at the bigger picture. We must provide economic supports that allow battered women to provide for themselves and their children, and keep them safe after they leave temporary shelters. That is the reason Senator MURRAY and I are introducing the Battered Women's Economic Security Act. 
   The Battered Women's Economic Security Act addresses the economic obstacles women who are victims of domestic violence face when trying to leave their abuser. For example, finding affordable and safe housing is critical for all battered women and their children, but particularly for low-income women. A 1998 report funded by the Ford Foundation found that of all homeless women and children, 50 percent of them are fleeing domestic violence. Let me say that again, half of all homeless women and children leave their home because the violence there threatens their lives. 
   Not only are over half of homeless women fleeing violence, but too many of them do not find shelter that they need. A report from the U.S. Conference of Mayors found that homeless shelters are finding an increasing need for women and children. Of that growing need, 1 out of every 3 families that shows up at a homeless shelter is turned away, and ends up on the street for the night. 
   It is simply unacceptable for us to allow women and children, who are fleeing violence, to be turned out into the streets. When are we as a society going to stand up and say no more? Without safe shelter, women and their children will continue to stay in violent relationships because at least they have a roof over their heads. Such a situation is shameful in such a prosperous country as our own, and in such a booming economy as this one. 
   Our bill makes sure that money goes directly to shelters for victims of domestic violence so that the people who are directly involved with helping battered women can help them find new housing. We also made sure that our bill provided resources to find that new housing by boosting the McKinney Homeless Act to provide funding for battered women and their children. 
   Anyone who has known someone fleeing a violent relationship or has talked  to advocates knows that safe shelter and housing are the first and immediate needs. But women cannot stay in shelters or transitional housing indefinitely. Women also need to find work to keep them on that path to independence and safety. Our bill protects women in the workplace so that they can keep their job and continue to deal with the multitude of issues that arise when a woman flees a violent relationship. 
   All too often, domestic violence follows women to work. According to recent studies, between 24 and 30 percent of women surveyed had lost their job, due at least in part, to domestic violence. Many victims lose their jobs because of their batterer's disruptive behavior. Many miss work because they are beaten. Others miss work because their abusers force them to stay home. 
   Many companies are poorly educated about the impact of domestic violence on women at work. Employers may fail to grant sufficient time off to attend civil or criminal legal proceedings or for safety planning. Some battered women find themselves penalized by their abuser's actions when employers dismiss or otherwise sanction employees once they learn they are in an abusive relationship One study found that 96% of the women who were working while involved in an abusive relationship had problems at work. Problems run the gamut from being late to missing work to having difficulty performing their job. More than 50 percent of these women reported being reprimanded at work for such problems and more than a 1/3 of them said they had lost their jobs as a result. 
   Our bill allows women to use the Family and Medical Leave Act to take time off to deal with the problems arising from leaving a violent relationship. Women need to deal with the court and legal system when they file for protective orders. Many times women need counseling for themselves and their children to support them as they establish a life separate from their batterers. Allowing women to use the FMLA to take this necessary time off will help women become more productive workers and give then the financial independence they need to begin a new, violence free life. 
   Not only do we need to provide women with the flexibility that they need, but need to ensure that their rights are protected should they unfairly lose their job. This bill prohibits discrimination against an employee based on her status or experience as a victim of domestic violence. It recognizes that we need not only policies that prohibit discrimination, but teeth to give those policies some bite. Our bill would give women the legal means to challenge any discrimination they may have faced as a result of being a victim of domestic violence. 
   As many of you know, we are still struggling to get all sectors of society to understand that domestic violence affects all aspects of a battered woman's life. Too many times women who have applied for health insurance are denied or charge exorbitant rates when insurance companies find out that they are victims of domestic violence. This is outrageous! Insurance discrimination penalizes victims of domestic violence for the actions of their abusers. Our bill makes sure that this form of discrimination will not be allowed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Utah for his graciousness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will be offering a number of amendments to this piece of legislation. First of all, I want to give these amendments a little bit of context. I came to the floor last week ready to offer these amendments. We had a whole series of other amendments, many of them dealing with gun control and other important amendments, we wanted to debate. I always said to my colleagues I was ready, willing, and able to go forward with amendments that I thought would dramatically improve this legislation. 
   I want to outline some of these amendments and then go to the amendment which is before the Senate. 
   The first amendment would allow States to use the new juvenile justice delinquency prevention block grant funds ``for services to juveniles with serious mental and emotional disturbances in need of mental health services'' before they land in the juvenile justice system. 
   This amendment also allows States to make the decision to use the JJDP block grant funds for ``projects designed to provide support to State and local programs designed to prevent juvenile delinquency by providing for assessment by qualified mental health professionals of incarcerated juveniles who are suspected to be in need of mental health services'' who need an individual treatment plan, and so forth. 
   Let me say to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that this language is very similar to what is actually in the House bill. I am trying to say we ought to allow States to use the block grant funds for a couple of different things. 
   No. 1, on the front end of this system, you have a kid--and this happens to be an area in which I have done a fair amount of work--struggling with mental illness. You want to be in a position to be able to use this money to identify this child with this particular problem and get the child into the kind of treatment that is needed as an alternative to incarceration. 
   We have entirely too many kids locked up who probably shouldn't be--not probably; who shouldn't be--locked up in the first place. I met some of these kids, kids who stole a moped or kids charged with breaking and entering. They have never committed a violent crime, they have a whole history of struggling with mental illnesses, but these kids weren't identified. There was no way of assessing this and providing these kids with some treatment as an alternative. 
   We want to make sure we have specific language that provides funds for services to juveniles with serious mental and emotional disturbances, to juveniles in need of mental health services, before they land in the juvenile justice system. It seems to me that any piece of juvenile justice legislation would want to include this language. 
   The second thing, it is absolutely brutal, it is absolutely harsh, it is absolutely unconscionable, that there are so many kids locked up in these facilities ages 11, 12, and 13 who struggle with mental illness and don't get any treatment. Again, we want to make sure that we allow States to use these JJDP block funds to do a much better job of assessing the kid's needs once that kid is incarcerated, figuring out what kind of individualized treatment plan will make sense and make sure the kids are treated. 
   I am sick and tired of the stigma about mental illness. It is pretty horrible to see what can happen to kids. I think what many of my colleagues absolutely have to realize is that many children--and there are children who wind up in these facilities--really are brutalized. They are brutalized. They are not even in a position to defend themselves, and they receive no treatment at all. 
   I am going to go on and come back to this amendment. 
   The second amendment I will be introducing is an amendment which allows States to use block grant funds for implementation of the training of justice system personnel. This comes out of the Mental Health Juvenile Justice Act I introduced in January, a bill I have been working on for about a year. 
   Again, basically what this says to States is, if you want to use these block grant funds to make sure a lot of the individuals who are in our juvenile justice system--from the judges, to the probation officers, to school officials, to a whole bunch of other people--are  trained so they can recognize kids who are struggling with these mental problems, then you should be able to do so. Often you do not have people within this juvenile justice system who have the training to recognize a child who is struggling with mental illness, who needs treatment for that illness. What this amendment says is let's allow States to use some of this block grant money for such training. Again, I will go into this amendment in detail later on, but I find it difficult to believe this is an amendment that would not be accepted to a piece of legislation called juvenile justice. 
   The third amendment I am going to introduce has to do with children who witness domestic violence. This area of work for me has become the opposite of academic. I do a lot of this work with my wife Sheila. It is based upon all sorts of women and children who have been victims of family violence. 
   As I said before on the floor of the Senate, roughly speaking, about every 15 seconds a woman is battered in her home. A home should be a safe place. All too often, children are battered as well. The connection to this legislation is that if you ask judges what the files look like of kids who appear in their court at 13, 14 years of age, quite often those judges will talk about the violence in the homes. 
   We have not done a good job. We are beginning to focus on the need to provide support for women. That was the Violence Against Women Act on which Senator BIDEN and Senator MURRAY and many others provided a tremendous amount of leadership as did Senator HATCH. But what we have not recognized is the effects of this violence against the parent--and all too often that is the woman--on the children. Even if the child himself or herself is not battered--and quite often that happens--they see it all the time. When they come to school, quite often they cannot do well. Often it is not recognized by school authorities. 
   So this amendment, which is extremely relevant to this legislation, would provide a comprehensive intersystem approach to limiting the effects of domestic violence on the lives of children. This is an amendment, again, on which I will go into great detail, that will provide the funds for our Nation to do a better job at the community level, to bring together all the different adults who come in contact with these children, and get some support to these children. 
   I do not know how to put it except this way: You can have the smallest class size, you can have the best teachers, you can have the best technology, but if that child has been in a home where that child has seen his mother beaten up over and over and over again, the chances are that child is in trouble. The chances are that child may not be able to do well in school. And the chances are right now we have a whole lot of people, from school officials to law enforcement officials, you name it, who will not recognize that. We need to figure out ways of enabling adults in the community to recognize children who are going through this, and we need to figure out a way to provide more support for these children. 
   The fourth amendment is an amendment of which I am very proud. I have a lot of different support for it, from the Conference of Mayors to the American School Health Association. This amendment would provide for 100,000 new school counselors, plus school psychologists and school social workers. This would be Federal funds matched by funds from States and local school districts. 
   It is very simple. There is no be-all, there is no end-all, but when I marshal evidence for this amendment I think my colleagues are going to be shocked at the extent to which we have really no infrastructure of support for so many of these kids when it comes to mental health services. We do not have enough counselors. We do not have enough school psychologists. We do not have enough social workers. We cannot even begin to help a lot of kids who need somebody to whom they can go. So, again, I think this amendment is right on point. 
   Finally, I will have an amendment that will take some time, which is indirect to this legislation, which is the welfare recipient accountability amendment. There are two other amendments. 
   Just to put colleagues on notice on this, what I want to say is--and I, unfortunately, will be able to marshal a lot evidence--now that we are beginning to get the fragmentary reports of what is going on with the welfare bill, we are finding, for the majority of women who are off welfare, a dramatic reduction in the welfare roll is not equal to a dramatic reduction in poverty. The majority of these women are working at jobs, the prevailing wage of which is less than they were receiving before. In a lot of cases, these children are not getting decent child care. Therefore, I have to worry about where these kids are going to go. 
   Let's at least call on Health and Human Services to require States to provide us with the data as to where these women and children are: What kind of jobs do they have at what kind of wages? What is the situation with their children? We ought to know. We ought to know. 
   Tomorrow, this amendment, I think, will cause a major debate. I hope there will be overwhelming support for it. There really were close to 400 votes in the House of Representatives, I believe. 
   One of the flaws of this legislation is to take out the language that deals with disproportionate minority confinement. I will spend a lot of time on the floor tomorrow, with Senator KENNEDY, on this question, because right now this piece of legislation takes us backwards. It takes us backwards from the current situation, or from what the House of Representatives has proposed, which is we want to know about the ``why'' of disproportionate minority confinement. We want to know why so many children of color are the ones who are picked up, so many children of color wind up in the court system, so many of them wind up in these so-called correctional facilities--all out of proportion to number of crimes committed. We do have to come to terms with race in America. 
   The fact of the matter is the disproportionate minority confinement language right now has enabled some States to do some very good work. States on their own--on their own because of Federal legislation--are doing some very good analysis of why we have so many of these kids of color in these facilities. This legislation would basically stop that effort. This legislation takes us backwards. It is a huge mistake. I have not seen the civil rights community more focused on trying to get an amendment agreed to than this amendment. I look forward to this debate. I think it is extremely important. 
   Mr. President, let me, then, introduce the first two amendments that I am hoping will be noncontroversial. They are drawn from the Mental Health Juvenile Justice Act. Again, this legislation I introduced several months ago received the support of over 40 organizations. They go all the way from the American Bar Association to the Children's Defense Fund, to district attorneys' offices, to State judges, probation, and police officers, you name it. Right now, S. 254 pays only lip service to the problem of children with mental illness in our juvenile justice system. These amendments have teeth, providing States with grants to fund programs to keep children who struggle with mental illness out of the juvenile justice system altogether and to identify and treat those who are in it. 
   Elie Wiesel once said:  
   More than anything--more than hatred and torture--more than pain--do I fear indifference.  
   We must be diligent and not allow ourselves to be indifferent to children's misery, particularly those children who may be sick, difficult, and test our patience, our understanding and our compassion. 
   Yet, we have become in our country, I fear, deeply indifferent to how we treat juveniles in the justice system who live in this shadow of mental illness. Each year, more than 1 million youth come in contact with the juvenile justice system and more than 100,000 of these youth are detained in some type of jail or prison. These people are overwhelmingly poor and a disproportionate number of them are children of color. 
   By the time many of these children are arrested and incarcerated, they have a long history of problems in their very short lives. As many as two-thirds suffer from mental or emotional disturbance; 1 in 5, 20 percent, has a serious disorder; many have substance  abuse problems and learning disabilities; most of them come from troubled homes. 
   The ``crimes'' of these children vary. While some have committed violent crimes--and we have to hold a child or an adult accountable for a violent crime--some have committed petty theft or skipped school. Still others have simply run away from home to escape physical or sexual abuse from parents or other adults. 
   The vast majority of children who are in these juvenile justice facilities have not committed a violent crime. In fact, despite popular opinion, most of the children who are locked up are not violent. Justice Department studies show that 1 in 20 youth in the juvenile justice system has committed a violent offense--1 in 20 of youth in the juvenile justice system has committed violent offenses. 
   Jails in the juvenile justice centers are often found unprepared to deal with the mentally ill. For instance, medication is not given when it should be given or it is not properly monitored or guards may not know how to respond to a disturbed youth who is just not capable of standing in line for orderly meals. As a result, many of these children are disciplined and put in solitary confinement. 
   What is happening to these troubled children--and this is why I want my colleagues to accept this amendment; this is why I have been waiting days for this amendment--is a national tragedy. All across the country, we are criminalizing mental illness of children, and we are dumping emotionally disturbed kids into juvenile prisons. 
   What this amendment says is we at least allow States to take the block grant money to do a better job of assessing these children when they get into trouble, and if these children are struggling with mental illness or struggling with emotional problems and they have not committed a violent crime, let us at least make sure we provide some diversionary programs, some community-based treatment, as opposed to incarcerating these children. 
   This comes right from this juvenile justice mental health legislation. We ought to pass this amendment, I say to my colleagues. 
   What is happening to these troubled children is a national tragedy. Why do so many youth with mental illness end up in the juvenile justice system? Children with mental disorders often behave in ways that bring them in conflict with family members, with authority figures and peers. 
   Over the last 10 years, the public attitude toward juvenile 
   crime has grown tougher. Consequently, the juvenile justice system is casting a wider net. A growing fear and intolerance of children who misbehave or commit nonviolent offenses have pushed children into the juvenile justice system who would not have ended up there in earlier times. 
   At the same time, our country has failed to invest adequately in services and programs that can reduce the need for their incarceration. These include mental health services. The warning signs for delinquency are well known: School failure, drug and alcohol abuse, family violence and abuse, and poverty. Yet, we have failed to put in place community prevention, screening, and early intervention services for those children who are most at risk. 
   Proper mental health treatment can prevent or reduce the offending, but many, many, many communities do not have adequate services for children and their families. Let me read a couple of examples. 
   Matthew--and I am not going to use the full name--Matthew I. has a history of mental health problems. He has received services from the public mental health center and has been hospitalized several times in private psychiatric institutions. 
   One night in 1996, Matthew heard voices telling him to run away from home. He listened to the voices, and in the process of running away, he stole two bicycles. Matthew was arrested and charged with theft. He was sentenced to the Swanson Correctional Center for Youth. While in Swanson, Matthew was beaten and witnessed guards abusing other youths. Matthew received disciplinary tickets for falling asleep. His psychotropic medications made him sleepy, so he stopped taking his medicine. Without his medication, Matthew was impulsive and had difficulty following orders. So, again, he received disciplinary tickets. 
   Despite continued requests from his mother, Matthew did not receive an evaluation by a psychiatrist until he attempted suicide. After the suicide attempt, Matthew saw the psychiatrist in 6-week to several-month intervals. He did not receive mental health counseling services. Matthew made several suicidal attempts after the first one. 
   After almost 2 years of confinement in the juvenile prison, Matthew is now at home. That is one example. This is from Shannon Robshaw, executive director of the Mental Health Association in Louisiana. 
   Daron R. was physically and sexually abused by his babysitters from infancy to age 7. He has marks on his face where this couple threw rocks at him and hit him with a broom. 
   Daron is a brilliant child and categorized by the school as ``gifted.'' Daron is explosive and has a hard time controlling his temper. He is impulsive and has difficulty following directions. Now 10 years old, Daron has a history of psychiatric hospitalization and is taking several medications. 
   In September 1998, he became uncontrollable at home and was sentenced to Jetson Correctional Center for Youth. At his mother's request, Daron's school psychologist attempted to assist him by participating in a telephone conference call. During this conference, she was told Jetson did not have to provide educational services for gifted children. 
   In Jetson, Daron had problems so the guards responded by throwing the 10-year-old against the wall. The psychologist asked if the guards were trained in passive restraint and was 
   told no. Daron's mother and psychologist took pictures of the bruises on Daron's body. Daron was released to a State mental hospital last Christmas. 
   A final example--and when people come back tomorrow, I am going to get colleagues to listen before we vote on this amendment. These are children's lives. 
   Travis M. was charged with stealing a bicycle. I met him. Travis M. was charged with stealing a bicycle and sentenced to Tallulah Corrections Center for Youth for 3 months. Fourteen at the time, Travis had been hospitalized for psychiatric problems three times, the most recent only 1 month before being sentenced to Tallulah. Travis was labeled with attention deficit disorder, oppositional defiant disorder and mild mental retardation. Travis takes three psychotropic medications. 
   At Tallulah, Travis was unable to successfully complete the boot camp and received numerous disciplinary tickets for not following orders and for falling asleep. These tickets extended his sentence by a year and a half. 
   While at Tallulah, Travis was abused by guards and saw guards beat others. Travis witnessed guards putting a hit out on youths. While at Tallulah, Travis contemplated suicide and was told by a guard to ``go ahead, that will be one less to deal with.'' 
   Eighteen months after being placed in Tallulah, Travis was released. Now he suffers from post-traumatic stress syndrome and has flashbacks of his violent experience in Tallulah. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague that I do not intend to take a long time. It depends on what my colleague means by a ``time agreement.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me ask my colleague. I would be pleased to accommodate him. Here is the question from me. In fact, I am almost surprised these first two amendments have not even been accepted. I have been working most of my adult life in this area, and I really want to talk about mental health and juvenile justice. 
   I think there are two amendments here. I don't want to rush through this and not give justice to what I think is an agonizingly important and painful question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. But I have no intention of going on and on; so if we could get a reasonable time limit. Could I ask this: Since I have a lot of amendments here, how long are we allotting to different Senators? In other words, Senator 
   SESSIONS has an amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would be pleased to finish up on my amendment in a short period of time. It sounds as if my colleague does not need a lot of time, but I would like to be able to offer my amendments here today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I know about that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, this is why we may need more time. This actually just allows for the States, but it has the same language the House has which specifically lists mental health services so we make it clear this is part of what is to be done. We do not mandate this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, I can finish in 10 minutes and then we can go to another amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, after my colleague from Alabama is recognized, I ask that we then return to me and I can offer my next amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I am almost finished on the first one, but I cannot---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, just again, to summarize, this is not a mandate. The amendment allows States to use the new juvenile justice delinquency prevention block grant funds for ``services to juveniles with serious mental and emotional disturbances.......who are in need of mental health services'' before they land in the juvenile justice system. 
   This is the language from the House legislation. And this is language which is critically important, because if we do not have, I say to my colleague from Utah, language with this kind of specificity, then I think once again these kids just get lost in the shuffle. 
   I say to my colleague from Alabama, the second thing this amendment does is it says that for those kids who are incarcerated, let's allow States--they do not have to do it--to use the block grant funds for programs which will enable them to do an assessment of these kids, once in these facilities, who are struggling with mental problems, and make sure that they can get some treatment to these kids. 
   That is what these two amendments do. 
   I will talk about my visit to Tallulah--it is but one example--a facility in Louisiana. The only thing I  can tell you is that all across the country, unfortunately--and Tallulah is but one example--you have a lot of kids locked up who do not need to be. They stole a moped. They did not commit a violent crime. They have all sorts of mental problems. They are not getting the care they need. They could be treated in their community. You do not want to have them incarcerated. And then, God knows, for those who are incarcerated, you want to make sure they get the treatment. 
   That is what this amendment says. When I was in Tallulah, there were about 650 kids, and about 80 percent were African American--we will get to the whole problem of disproportionate minority confinement tomorrow in the amendment--as young as age 11; and many of them--I am sorry, too many of them--quite often are locked up in solitary confinement for up to 7 weeks, 23 hours a day, as young as age 11. 
   What I am saying is, at least let's allow States, with some clear language here, to provide mental health services to these kids who need services. That is what this amendment is all about. The way these children are treated is brutal; it is harsh; it is unconscionable; it is not right. I hope to get very strong support for this legislation. 
   While I am speaking, for those who may be watching, I thank the Chair personally, as opposed to reading or writing notes, for having the courtesy to listen to what I have to say as a Senator. I thank Senator LUGAR from Indiana for doing that. That is very important to me as a Senator when I am speaking about an issue that I think is important. I thank the Senator for his courtesy. 
   How much time do I have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Are we going to try to see whether we can work this out? I would reserve time if I thought there was going to be debate. I am ready to debate amendments. Whatever you want to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. OK. Then I will yield the floor and come back with an amendment after my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would be pleased to do so. I just say to my colleague from Utah, whom I do not want to anger, not because I mind debating him--I appreciate the debates--but because I know how accommodating he can be, I am not going to come out here and talk and talk and talk, but I want to have the opportunity to give some context to these amendments. I think it is really important. 
   So I would like to ask unanimous consent that I follow Senator SESSIONS. And I will try to do it in as efficient a way as possible. 
   I do not think I can do every amendment in 10 minutes. I do not intend to. I just want to be honest with my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will send an amendment to the desk shortly. 
   I appreciate my colleague's heartfelt words. Again, I hope we will have a thorough debate about this legislation. I think there are some kids who commit really violent crimes, and they should be held accountable. 
   I want to say this very carefully to my colleague from Colorado, who is now in the Chair. From my own part, given what the Senator from Colorado has been through, and what his State has been through--I have said it before and I will say it again--I don't want to make any one-to-one correlation. I still very honestly and truthfully believe that every once in a while there is an act of violence that is such a nightmare, so God awful, it is so crazy, it is so sick, it is so incomprehensible that all of us should be very careful about doing any one-to-one correlation. I think there are many things we can do better in our country to reduce violence in the lives of children and in our communities. But I don't want my remarks to be correlated at least 100 percent to what happened at Columbine High School. I am not comfortable doing that. 
   Mr. President, where I would disagree with my colleague from Utah--this is why I was on the floor earlier; this is why I have been waiting patiently for days to become involved in this debate--is that again we need to understand that the vast majority of kids--I think over 90 percent of kids, as I read the statistic earlier--who are in these juvenile correctional facilities haven't committed a violent crime. 
   If this is juvenile justice legislation, then we ought to be talking about justice. I will say one more time that a lot of these ``correctional facilities'' don't correct, and that a lot of these kids, by the time they leave these facilities, are not on their way toward productive citizenship. These places basically become kind of a staging ground for them moving on to committing more crime and winding up in prison. That is one of the major flaws of this legislation. 
   If you do not look at this disproportionate minority confinement, and you want to sort of take us backward so that States no longer can really do a careful assessment of what is going on when so many of the kids who are winding up in prison are kids of color, not only is this not right, not only is this a matter of discrimination, not only should we not be allowing States and encouraging States to take a look at this, quite often when those kids leave, they are far worse off than when they got there. 
   I have talked about just this one visit to the Tallulah facility. I am sorry to pick on the facility, but I will  tell you the truth--most of these kids, about 80 percent of them, are African American, as young as age 11, and 95 percent have committed nonviolent crimes. 
   I have done a lot of community organizing and a lot of low-income neighborhood work in my life. I probably would have been willing--I did a lot of work with young people before I came to the Senate. I still try to do that work. I would have been pleased to meet with any of them at 10 o'clock at night but not all of them, not after they were in Tallulah, not after they were in the facility. 
   I will not support a piece of legislation that doesn't deal with the disproportionate sentences of kids of color, or any piece of 
   legislation that takes us backward, that really calls on us to turn our gaze away from this, any piece of legislation that allows, albeit incidental, contact between these kids and adults in some of these facilities, with, God knows, what consequences. I cannot support a piece of legislation that doesn't do better. I am hoping we can have some agreement on mental health services so that a lot of kids who should not be in these institutions who never committed a violent crime, can get treatment in their own communities as opposed to being incarcerated, or making sure if they are incarcerated, for God's sake, that they get treatment. Any piece of legislation that doesn't allow States to use the funding for that, or doesn't have explicit direction that States can use that funding is short on the justice part. 
   Let me also say, although this is not today's topic but it is related, the fact is we can build a million new prisons and we can fill all of them. We are never going to stop this cycle of violence in this country unless many more children in this country have hope. When we have, roughly speaking, close to one out of every four kids under the age of six growing up poor in America, and close to 60 percent of kids of color growing up poor in America, we have a whole agenda to deal with here. Nobody should dismiss that agenda. 
   The amendment I am going to be sending to the desk speaks directly to what my colleague from Utah was talking about. This is the 100,000 school counselors amendment. 
   The tragic school shootings in Littleton, CO--again, I don't want to do any one-to-one correlation; I don't want to be glib about this, but it certainly shows that we must do better by way of making sure that kids who have some fear problems are identified. There has to be a lot more infrastructure in our schools so we can do a better job of maybe seeing what could happen and getting to these kids earlier. 
   There are no easy answers. There is no simple solution to the problem of school violence, but there are some steps we can take to make our schools safer and healthier. 
   I want to talk about expanding and improving the available mental health services in our Nation's schools as an essential step forward. For this reason, I rise to offer this amendment, the 100,000 school counselors amendment, to S. 254. 
   For months I have been receiving letters and calls--and I imagine other Senators have as well--from my constituents in Minnesota who have been asking for my help to find a way to get students the mental health services they desperately need. They call and ask, Is there a way we can hire more counselors to serve our schools in the State of Minnesota? I have a whole stack of letters I could hold up. Let me read from a few of them. 
   Betty Jo Braun, a school counselor from Cleveland public schools, a small town in Minnesota:  
   In my 15 years as a counselor, I observe younger and younger students who feel that their only recourse is to repay violence with violence. If I could somehow get to all of them with violence prevention at an early age, we might have a better chance with positive outcomes in High School. But not at 767 students to 1 counselor unless overworked teachers do all the work and all I do is consult. The violent incidents that frighten me most are not the ones that I manage to avert (fights, suicide attempts, etc.); the scary ones are the ones I don't know about and that are waiting like the other shoe to drop into our mostly calm rural life, as they did in a neighboring school not too long ago. There a young man came into the school with a pistol and managed to shoot a police officer before being apprehended. Somehow I believe that a good school counselor with his ear to the ground could have avoided this incident by intervening with this young man along the way. Unfortunately, this district has a 1000 to 0 student to counselor ratio; they cut both counseling positions the year before this incident occurred.  
   There are schools all across this country that cry out for an infrastructure of counselors to be able to provide more support for kids who really need this additional help. 
   Across the country, counseling positions are being cut. It is incumbent upon the Federal Government, if we are going to talk about how we respond to some of the violence that has taken place in our schools across the country, to share in this responsibility to hire more counseling and mental health professionals. 
   Schools vary greatly in their support for counseling services. Due to current incentives under Federal law, schools often place a higher priority on the hiring of additional instructional staff than on the establishment of even modest counseling programs. Up until recently--maybe the world has changed since Colorado, but up until very recently the whole idea of school counselors was that counselors were like icing on the cake; they weren't part of the cake; they were not that essential to what goes on in schools. Well, they are. 
   The letter continues:  
   We must make it affordable for schools to hire counselors, school social workers and school psychologists.  
   My State of Minnesota prides itself on being a great education State, but we fail those students who are in most need of our help because Minnesota has one of the worst counselor-to-student ratios in the country. California is dead last. Minnesota's student-to-counselor ratio is 1,011 to 1. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am going to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-22-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have an idea it will take me a while to make the case, because I think it is pretty darn important. So I can't say 10 minutes, 5 minutes. I will not go on all afternoon. 
   The Senator from Utah knows me. In very good faith, I have a statement to make and I will finish the statement. I will probably do it sooner if my colleague doesn't keep asking me when I will be done. 
   I think I will be done within the next 20 minutes or so, not much longer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-23-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-24-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleague I respond in three ways: 
   No. 1, while I, honestly and truthfully, this legislation is deeply flawed, there are some good things in this legislation and I know my colleague has worked hard on it. I appreciate his comments about ways in which we can  do a better job on the upfront assessment for kids struggling with mental illness, some of whom probably really would be better off treated not in these facilities. 
   I appreciate what my colleague has said. Everything my colleague listed is important. 
   However, in my statement I will go into some of the training that is necessary for counselors. I am talking about an infrastructure in schools, specifically in the schools, and I am talking about an infrastructure that includes counselors, that includes social workers, and includes school psychologists. 
   The reason I am talking about 100,000 counselors and we are talking about a cost that becomes one-third Federal Government, one-third State, and one-third school district, I say to my colleague from Alabama we have a ratio--and I am talking about my own State--in Minnesota we have a student-counselor ratio of 1,000-1. 
   The truth of the matter is, we have to do a better job. I think the Federal Government can be a player. I understand this is not a substitute for what my colleague has talked about, but I want there to be a very specific focus on the need to have counselors and to have social workers and clinical psychologists in our schools. 
   That is the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-25-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-26-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-27-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. Mr. President, I understand what my colleague said. I think throughout this legislation, again, and we talked about truancy, we talked about the need for intervention, we talked about kids who are getting into trouble. Again, we just have to get more counselors in our schools and the Federal Government should be a real player. That is the ``why'' of this amendment. 
   I was mentioning that the Minnesota student/counselor ratio is 1,011 to 1. This means on average one counselor serves two times the number of House and Senate Members combined. So a great education State--in my opinion, the greatest progressive education environment and health care and family State in the country--in Minnesota, we have a ratio of 1000 to 1. That means on average, one counselor serves two times the number of House and Senate Members combined. 
   Minnesota is not the only State, however, that is in desperate need of school-based mental health services. Across America, schools are experiencing a shortage of qualified counselors, psychologists and school workers. My amendment would establish a funding program similar to the COPS Program that provides seed money to States that provide for more mental health service providers in the schools. And we need to do this. 
   Approximately 141,000 new counselors, social workers and psychologists are needed for our schools. My amendment would provide States and localities with the resources to meet these children's needs. It is on a one-third, one-third, one-third basis. America's students simply do not have adequate access to counseling services and other mental health services. 
   A student from Mahtomedi High School, in Mahtomedi MN, wrote about her counselor, Anne Melass. This student had a serious problem with cutting herself, and was admitted to a hospital for treatment. She writes:  
   Since my return, I have been constantly working with the counselors. I am in a foster home. My mother killed my sister.....  
   Can you believe what some kids have to go through?  
   ..... and my dad was unfit to take care of me. I was in three different foster homes before I came to Joe and Michelle's.  
   She concludes by saying:  
   A note to this is that (counselors) have so many people to listen to whom they truly care about, but if someone is in pain or needs help, they shouldn't have to wait in line. There are way too many children who are waiting in line in our schools. If we are serious about juvenile justice and we want to do something about truancy, we want to do something about kids at risk, we want to do something to help kids before they get into trouble, then clearly this is a direction we must go.  
   She is not alone. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, although 7.5 million children under the age of 18 require mental health services, only one in five receive them--only one in five. Yet another student writes of her frustration, 
   because not enough counselors are in the school:  
   I strongly feel that our school should have more counselors, we have a difficult time making appointments when we need to talk to someone.  
   Violence does not only happen in the schools and on the streets. Violence happens in homes. One young man writes:  
   Earlier this year I was going through some hard times with my parents. My father especially.  
   He goes on to say that a counselor was able to give him the skills to prevent a fight with his father. He writes:  
   Through my parents' talking with the counselor, we decided family counseling would be a good thing to try and we are currently involved in that and it is starting to help a little. With such high ratios, though, it can be difficult even to get an appointment.  
   A counselor helped this young man and several others. Hundreds, thousands of students are not that lucky and they do not get the help they deserve. 
   Anne Melass, a licensed school counselor, is one of those special school counselors who gives students the extra time. She explained what being a counselor was like. She writes:  
   A typical work day for a school counselor is a new appointment every 15 minutes. The caseloads per counselor range from 400 to 1,800 students. 
   I believe ``school counselor'' is interpreted many different ways but most people assume it is a non-threatening person you can go to for help with any concern you have in the school. I strongly believe that increasing school counseling services could very well change the community perception of public schools.  
   It could help a lot of kids. It could help a lot of kids before they get into trouble. It could prevent some of the violence we want to prevent. 
   The serious shortage of counselors, school psychologists and school social workers in America's schools has undermined our efforts to make schools safe, improve academic achievement, and assure bright futures for the youth of America. 
   I will never forget a gathering I was at in Minneapolis about 2 months ago, of about 50 principals, title I teachers, support staff. They said to me that by first grade--by first grade--if we don't have more counseling services for these kids, even as I have said before, with the best schools, smallest class size, best technology, these kids are not going to do well. We need to get the support services for the kids. 
   To respond to my colleague from Alabama, let me talk about the school counselors, who they are and what they do. They are highly trained professionals. They are credentialed by law or by regulation. In all 50 States and the District of Columbia, counselors are required to obtain graduate education in guidance and counseling for entry-level credentialing as a professional school counselor. Mr. President, 39 States and the District of Columbia require the attainment of a master's degree in counseling and guidance or a related field. 
   We are talking about an infrastructure of professionals to get this help to kids. School psychologists have obtained a master's degree or doctoral degree in school psychology, or a Ph.D. degree in counseling psychology, or a Ph.D. in school psychology or counseling psychology. All school psychologists are certified or licensed by the State in which they work, usually by  the State department of education. School psychologists and counseling psychologists who practice in a private school, community agency, hospital, or clinic may be required to be licensed by the State Board of Psychology as well. 
   School social workers typically possess a master's degree in social work and are certified by the State's educational agency. 
   School counselors, school psychologists and social workers 
   provide a number of importance services, designed to support students, parents and the teachers. They improve school functioning, school safety, the kids lives; they work to prevent school violence and to prevent a whole lot of other problems. They offer information and guidance on postsecondary education and training options. They provide consultation with teachers and parents about the student learning, behavior and emotional problems. They develop and implement prevention programs including school safety and behavior management. They deal with substance abuse, they set up peer mediation, they enhance problem solving in schools, and the fact of the matter is, we have done a terrible job as a nation of making sure we have the counselors, that we have the social workers, and we have the psychologists in our schools. 
   On the average in our country, there is only 1 counselor for every 513 students in our Nation's elementary and secondary education schools. In States like California or Minnesota, 1 counselor serves more than 1,000 students. Utah, Arizona, Illinois, Ohio, Mississippi, Michigan, Tennessee and Colorado are in the top 10 worst States in the country. In Colorado, the student-to-counselor ratio is 654 to 1. That is better than Minnesota. But it is real hard as a counselor to be able to help a lot of kids when you have 654 kids you are trying to deal with. In Mississippi, another State victim of a school shooting, the ratio was 635 to 1. Furthermore, more than 50 percent of full-time school psychologists are working in settings with a ratio of greater than 1 to 500. 
   I think I have made my point, but I want to just read a couple of other quotes. Then I will conclude. I would say to my colleagues, I actually could go on and on. 
   Margo ROTHenbacker from Fridley Middle School, who is a counselor:  
   I am writing to plead with you to reduce counselor students ratios for school counselors. My caseload is 475 and unless there is an observable crisis, I do not see many of these students. I only have time to deal with the students that surface due to behavior or intervention by the county or police. What about the students who need help desperately but are not able to come forward or express their need in a way to draw attention? As a former high school teacher I believe that every elementary school should have a counselor.  
   And she is right. Margo Rothenbacker is right.  
   The counselor stays bonded with students as they transition from year to year from kindergarten through middle school through high school.  
   I have a letter about this 100,000 counselors amendment which I think is on the mark:  
   Senator WELLSTONE: ..... Please share with your colleagues my dismay at their continued delay in moving toward increased funding for prevention initiatives in our Nation's schools. The basis of professional school counseling has always been on prevention--educating young people about sound decisionmaking skills in order to avoid poor choices later in life. This is particularly true when it comes to conflict mediation and violence prevention. 
   In Minnesota during the past few weeks since the Littleton, CO, tragedy, much publicity has been focused on school districts spending large sums of money to have ``tactical assessments'' done on how to ``retake'' a school after such a Littleton-like scenario. Good God, Senator--what have we come to in our country? Have we so bankrupted our schools that they have given up the fight and mission of trying to prevent problems before they occur? Have our schools just decided that we can no longer prevent the Littletons, the Jonesboros, the Paducahs, the Pearls and are now just making contingency plans to deal with it when it happens rather than try and prevent it? 
   ..... Nationwide our ratios are absurd--in Minnesota we are next to dead last in the Nation as far as student-to-school counselor ratios go: ..... we average over 1,000:1....... We need funding to hire more school counselors.  
   He concludes by saying:  
   Thank you for allowing me to share my thoughts regarding this issue.  
   This is Walter Roberts, associate professor of Counselor Education Professional School Counseling Program at Minnesota 
   State University-Mankato. 
   Terry Johnson of White Bear, MN--where my daughter teaches--knows the demands and difficulty of being a school counselor. He writes:  
   I am a counselor at White Bear Lake High School-South Campus. We are a suburban school located north of St. Paul, MN. We currently have 1,400 students in our building, all juniors and seniors. Our lower classmen are located in a separate building. I am one of three counselors in our building. We are unique in that our entire population is dealing with graduation issues being imminent. Our load is approximately 450 to 1; we have very little time to do real counseling, as many of our colleagues nationwide also do not.  
   Sally Baas, a school psychologist in Anoka-Hennepin School District, writes:  
   I have been responsible for school psychological services for up to 3,500 students.  
   And because of this high ratio, she stated that ``many students are ignored.'' They do not get the attention they deserve and the attention their families deserves. 
   There is a considerable amount of research which makes the point that this works, which I will not go through right now--more counselors; more school psychologists; more social workers; 100,000 counselors, just like the COPS program. It makes a whole lot of sense to do this. 
   We have been acting as if this is icing on the cake, counselors do not matter that much, they are not that important, mental health services is just not that important. It is critically important. There are a lot of kids in our schools in our country who are in trouble. There are a lot of kids who need additional help, and if we are serious about juvenile justice and we are serious about getting kids before they get into trouble and we are serious about preventing the violence and we are serious about helping kids, then this amendment is right on point. 
   Billie Jo Hennager, a counselor in Barnum High School in Barnum, MN, knows firsthand the serious damage we do to America's youth when adequate mental health and counseling services are not provided. He writes:  
   I have a story, as do many counselors, that may be helpful in helping others understand the importance of having lower student/counselor ratios. One day during the first month, I was contacted because there had been a violent incident the night before that was witnessed by 9 to 10 students. A man was getting violent toward a woman, yelling, pushing, et cetera. The man returned a few minutes later with a gun, shot the other man point blank in the face, shot at the woman (a bullet grazed at her arm) and then swung the gun around at the kids yelling, ``What the [expletive] are you looking at?'' Not only did these kids have a gun pointed at them, but they witnessed a man's face being destroyed by a bullet, pieces of flesh flying through the air, and blood splattered everywhere. I don't think I need to explain how traumatic this situation was for those students. All students were in school the next day, but no counselor was available. I rushed to [their school] (an hour away) as soon as I could. These kids will have that memory forever ..... there is definitely a shortage of school counselors in Minnesota.  
   I add, all across the country:  
   Obviously, the situation there is less than ideal. Unfortunately, it's not all that unusual.  
   Mr. President, I believe I have sent this amendment to the desk. Have I? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-28-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-29-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-30-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to my colleagues that this 100,000 school counselors amendment, very much patterned after the COPS program, is focused on an area where we  can make a huge difference. We do not have the counselors. We do not have the social workers. We do not have the school psychologists. We do not have the infrastructure of support for our kids. 
   We can do much better, and it is absolutely essential that the Federal Government and we in the Senate step up to the plate and authorize this. Ultimately, I see this as a one-third, one-third, one-third matching program in terms of where the funding comes from. I do not see how we can be talking about juvenile justice and how we can be talking about preventing the violence and how we can be talking about, as so many have, what happened in Columbine High School or, for that matter, other high schools in the country. 
   Different people have talked about different things. Some people have focused on more gun control. Some people have talked about tougher sentencing. Some people have talked about the problem of the culture of violence in our country. Some people have talked about the problem of what we see on TV and what we see in the movies. Some people have talked about the lack of spirituality in homes and the lack of spirituality in schools. And some people have talked about other issues as well. 
   Quite frankly, I agree with most of this discussion. My own work has been in the mental health area. But I am telling you that we have to get serious about having an infrastructure of support in our schools that can make all the difference in the world for kids and can also help teachers deal with some kids who are not so easy to deal with, who can be very difficult to deal with. 
   We have for too long viewed mental health services--I will say this one more time--as an extra, as being just a frill, as not being that important, as being icing on the cake. My prediction is--why don't we get ahead of the curve in the Senate--we are going to see a whole lot of schools and a whole lot of school districts saying we need more help. We are going to see young women and young men, and not so young women and men, going to schools, getting their degrees in counseling and going into this work. I say, great, let's encourage that; it can only help. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-31-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-32-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Am I understanding the Senator correctly that he does not think there is any connection between counseling support for kids who are having trouble in school and whether or not they might end up in a juvenile corrections facility? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-33-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. OK. That is good, then. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-34-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased my colleague wants to go on to another subject. Again, my colleague is talking about once arrested there has to be ways of intervening. 
   Does my colleague not think it makes sense to intervene even before a young person is arrested? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-35-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Last question for my colleague. This bill came directly to the floor, right? It didn't go through the Judiciary Committee? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-36-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
   I say, by way of conclusion, to our profound disagreement--though it is an honest disagreement--that I just do not think you can decontextualize any of these issues. I do not think you can talk about juvenile justice without talking about all of the other issues that are critical to children's lives. I really believe, I say to my colleague, that the focus on building more jails and building more prisons--in perpetuity will never really stop the cycle of violence. That is what this amendment that is offered is aimed at in a very effective way. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-37-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will my colleague yield for a moment? Can I ask a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-38-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I apologize for breaking up the flow of the Senator's presentation. I wonder, the Senator is not offering the amendment, is he? He is speaking in general, is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-39-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have been waiting. I will probably leave for a while. My understanding was that they wanted us to be offering amendments. My colleague can take as long as he wants. I just want to know if he is going to take a considerable amount of time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-40-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-41-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, I want to point out I  don't know whether this has been cleared with the minority leader. Speaking as a Democrat, I want to say to the majority leader that I think altogether we have been on this bill 3 1/2 days. We have a finite list of amendments that we have locked in. We have not been dilatory. I, myself, was out on this floor, as my good friend from Utah can testify, all last week waiting, all today. I enjoy my colleague from Alabama, but the last hour or so were questions to me and what he had to say, which was important. I have been waiting for other amendments. 
   So in all due respect, I don't think what the majority leader has said is quite accurate. We have substantive amendments, a finite list, locked in, which speak to this bill, which could improve this bill and deliver. 
   To protect the Democrats, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-42-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would like an opportunity to respond to both of my colleagues for a moment, and then I would ask my colleague from Alabama, when he was speaking--at some period of time, I thought I was going to do another amendment. But I will leave for a while and come back later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-43-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I ask my colleague for 2 minutes to respond to what has been said here? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-44-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object. I am going to object just for a second because I actually was involved in another discussion. What was the request, again? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-45-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I object. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-46-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. There is. I object. I would like to see the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-47-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, before going forward with this amendment, there are two statements which I think need to be made for the record. 
   One is, I say to both my colleagues on the other side of the aisle because I did not get a chance to respond earlier, there is no evidence whatsoever, as suggested by my colleague from Alabama, that there are Senators on this side who are trying to kill the bill. Nobody has filibustered. Believe me, I know how to filibuster and so do other people. Nobody has filibustered. We have agreed to a finite group of amendments. 
   As to what the majority leader said as to the practical suggestion, we should handle this bill like we do any bill, which is we plow through amendments. That is the practical suggestion. I have not been here as long as my colleague from Utah, but I am sure he can recall many more examples than I can of a bill of this importance that has been on the floor and has taken a week, sometimes taken 2 weeks. Senators have amendments. We debate amendments. We vote them up or down. That is the Senate. That is how we conduct our work. 
   In all due respect, it is not credible if the majority leader wants to pull the bill and he wants to find a pretext for pulling the bill. He can come out here and make this claim, but it is not credible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-48-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will yield for a question in a moment. 
   Again, let me be clear. Many of us have been waiting to offer amendments. We have a finite list of amendments. We are going through the amendments. That is how we do business in the Senate. That is how we complete this bill. You do not have somebody--now I am not speaking for the party, I am speaking 
   for myself--you do not have somebody come out here and basically say: You agree to do the amendments you have in a short of period of time; we will give you one more day, that's it, because this is a great bill, this is really important, and we have to pass it tomorrow. 
   It may be a great bill, but some of us have disagreements with portions of this bill. My colleague from Mississippi talked about what happened last night in D.C. Two kids are going to be tried as adults. That is done locally. They did not wait for this bill to be passed. I can give examples of kids struggling with mental illness who have died in some of these juvenile correction centers, and I want to see something done to protect them. I feel as strongly about that as the majority leader feels about other provisions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-49-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-50-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Utah, I apologize for smiling. I was only smiling because initially I yielded for a question. I know him well enough to know, if he feels strongly about something, he is going to go on for a while. I appreciate what he said. Madam President, I do not ever have a problem yielding to Senator HATCH for a question or comment because he is always gracious as a Senator. 
   We will get to the substantive debate, but I have to say for the record that if the majority leader wants to pull this bill because he does not agree with some of the amendments that have been adopted or he does not want to debate some of the other amendments that deal with gun control or other controversial amendments, he can pull the bill. So be it. 
   You cannot have it both ways. As the old Yiddish proverb says: You can't dance at two weddings at the same time. You cannot say this is an incredibly important piece of legislation to deal with violence; it is so important in taking steps on prevention and stricter law enforcement with children, and then all of a sudden say: We are done as of tomorrow evening; if not, I will pull the bill. 
   It does not work that way. 
   If we come to a supplemental bill, we can act on it and then go back to this legislation. 
   Let's be clear about what is going on here. I think it would be a terrible mistake for the majority leader to pull this legislation. If that is what he wants to do, then he can do it, but it has nothing to do with Senators not willing to be out here debating amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-51-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I now offer my third amendment. This is an amendment that is called the children who witness domestic violence protection amendment. 
   We have heard a lot about the violence children see on television or the violence that children see in movies. We have heard a lot about the violence that bombards our children from video games. 
   Do you want to know something? The worst part of all is the violence in the lives of children that is not in the spotlight. Increasingly, children are witnessing real-life violence in their homes. 
   In fact, it is in their own homes that many children witness violence for the first time. Over 3 million children in the United States of America are witnessing violence in their homes each year and it is having a profound impact on their development. Whether or not these children are physically injured by the violence, they carry with them lasting emotional scars from having been exposed to the threat of and trauma of injury, assault, or killing. 
   This exposure to family violence changes the way children view the world and may change the value they place on life itself. It affects their ability to learn, to establish relationships, and to cope with stress. Witnessing domestic violence has such a profound impact on children, placing them at high risk for anxiety, depression and even suicide. 
   Furthermore, these child victims may exhibit more aggressive antisocial and fearful behaviors. They are also at much greater risk of becoming future offenders, which is one of the reasons I offer this amendment to this legislation. Exposure to family violence, many studies suggest, is the strongest predictor of violent delinquent behavior among adolescents. 
   It is estimated that between 20 and 40 percent of chronically violent adolescents have witnessed extreme parental conflict. When I talk to judges back home, they tell me it is all predictable who the 13- and 14-year-olds are who are going to appear in their court. They go back through their records and they see the violence in the families, many of these kids having experienced this violence directly or having seen it. 
   In a Justice Department-funded study of children in Rochester, NY, children who had been victims of violence within their families were 24 percent more likely to report violent behavior as adolescents than those who had been maltreated in childhood. Can you believe that? This statistic says that kids are even more prone to become violent as adolescents who have just witnessed violence in their families as opposed to those kids who have actually been maltreated themselves, abused in their childhood. Adolescents who were not themselves victimized, but who had grown up in families where domestic violence had occurred were 21 percent more likely to report violent delinquency than those not so exposed. Overall, children exposed to multiple forms of family violence reported twice the rate of youth violence as those from nonviolent families. 
   So, again, if we are talking about how to prevent the delinquency, how to deal with kids before they get into  trouble, we have to get more support to kids who witness this violence in their homes. 
   A 1994 survey of 115 mothers in the waiting room of Boston City Hospital's Primary Care Clinic found that by age 6, 1 in 10 children had witnessed a knifing or shooting. An additional 18 percent of the children under age 6 had witnessed pushing, hitting or shoving. Half of the reported violence--half of the reported violence--occurred in the child's home. 
   Let me tell you about Tony and Sara from Minnesota. Tony is 10 years old, and his sister Sara is 8. Tony and Sara were 
   severely traumatized after seeing their father brutally attack their mother. They were forced to watch their father drag their mother out to the driveway, douse her with gasoline, and hold the flaming match inches from her. Tony and Sara are not the only children in our country who were terrified by violence like this, sometimes on a daily basis. 
   Children who witness domestic violence are often traumatized and they need support. Who is a child going to turn to when their mother is the victim of their father? Who is a child going to talk to when their sibling has emotionally shut down and no longer speaks? Who is a child going to go to for help when they need assistance? Children like Tony and Sara have the right to know that what is happening in their home is wrong. Children like Tony and Sara have the right to feel that we care about their safety. 
   My legislation, which I am offering as an amendment today, is a comprehensive first step toward confronting the impact that witnessing domestic violence has on children in America. This bill addresses this issue from multiple perspectives--including mental health, education, child protective services, supervised visitation centers, law enforcement, and crisis nurseries. 
   Mental health. I have visited, with my wife Sheila, programs in Boston and San Francisco that are forging creative partnerships in their communities to meet the needs of traumatized children. That is what this amendment is about. More must be done. To address the devastating impact that witnessing domestic violence has on the mental health of children, my amendment provides nonprofit agencies with the funds needed to design and implement multisystem interventions for child witnesses. 
   This partnership would involve the courts, the schools, health care providers, child protective services, battered women programs, and others. What we would be talking about would be guidelines to evaluate the needs of children who witness this violence, safety and security procedures for child witnesses and their families, counseling and advocacy, and outreach and training to community professionals. 
   I met Pamela in Brainerd, MN. Pamela was a battered woman. Her husband threatened to kill her, so she finally left him after 9 years of abuse. But Pamela says that the damage has already been done to her children. She has two children. They are 18 and 15 years old. She says that both her children have turned to drugs and alcohol to cope with the abuse they witnessed. Pamela's 15-year-old son is currently in a treatment facility. 
   Pamela and her children would have had a better chance if mental health services had been available to them sooner. We cannot send more of our Nation's children into drug treatment facilities and juvenile prisons when we have the opportunity to intervene early and to heal them. That is what this amendment is all about. 
   Education. My amendment also encourages collaboration between domestic violence community agencies and schools to provide educational programs and support services for these kids. What happens is that the school officials quite often do not recognize what is going on. This child has seen this violence in his or her home over and over and over again. They come to school; they may not stay awake because they did not sleep that night because they were so terrified; they may act out; they maybe cannot concentrate, and yet quite often what happens is that these kids, because they have witnessed this domestic violence, are not able to learn, but our education community does not know what is going on with them. So we provide the funding and the support for collaboration. This is a great amendment, I say to my colleague from Utah. 
   When I was out in rural Minnesota, I met a woman who serves as a guardian to a boy who has witnessed domestic violence. The boy's mother is a battered woman and is now separated from the boy's father. The guardian told me that the boy's teacher reported that the boy had been mean to a girl across the aisle in the classroom, so the boy was sent to be ``timed out.'' When this boy was asked about how he was treating the girl, he said that he was not being mean. He said that he hit the girl because he wanted her to do what he said. He said he hit her because, and I quote, ``that's how dad gets mom to do things.'' I will quote that again. This little boy said: I hit this girl because ``that's how dad gets mom to do things.'' ``That's how dad gets mom to do things.'' 
   Children cannot always compartmentalize traumatic events. Instead, the domestic violence comes to school with each and every child witness. It undermines their school performance, their relationships with other children, and we need to get them help. 
   Child protective services, the third part of this. This legislation also addresses domestic violence and the people who work to protect our children from abuse and neglect. There is a significant overlap between domestic violence and child abuse. 
   In families where one form of violence exists, there is a likelihood that the other does, too. In a national survey, researchers found that 50 percent of the men who frequently assaulted their wives also frequently abused their children. The problem is that the child protective services and the domestic violence organizations have separately set up programs to address one of these forms of violence yet few address both when they occur together in families. This amendment provides incentives for local governments to collaborate with domestic violence agencies in administering their child welfare programs. 
   Madam President, I want to go to the second part of this amendment. What you have here is a picture of Brandon and Alex Frank. I met their mom. These two children were murdered by their father. This amendment increases the funding available for supervised visitation centers. 
   What happens quite often is visitation provides a batterer with another way to batter. This amendment would create a grants program whereby domestic violence service providers could apply for money for what we call family visitation centers. This is extremely important. For example, usually it is the woman who is battered. The man is now out of her home, thank God, but he still has custody rights. He comes to visit the child. Quite often when he brings the child back to the home or when there is an exchange at the home, the violence takes place again, or he has custody and he can get the children over a weekend. These visitation centers would enable that father to still see the children but it would be supervised visitation to protect the children. 
   On July 3, 1996, 5-year-old Brandon and 4-year-old Alex were murdered by their father during an unsupervised visit. Their mother Angela--Sheila and I met her not too long ago; she has met her several times--was separated from Kurt Frank, the father. During her marriage, Angela was physically and emotionally abused by Frank, and Frank had hit Brandon and split open his lip when he stepped in front of his mother during a domestic violence incident. Angela had an order of protection against Kurt Frank, but during custody hearings her request for her husband to only receive supervised visits was rejected. Kurt Frank murdered his two sons during an unsupervised visit. These are the two children. This amendment says, let's do a better job of protecting these children. 
   Madam President, this amendment also provides further training to law enforcement officers. We have met with some great people in the law enforcement community, and they say that they now realize they come to the home but they quite often have not been able to understand the effect that this has on the children. They come to break it up. They come to protect the woman. They come to make it clear to the man that this is a crime. The children fall between the cracks. This  would enable the law enforcement community to recognize the needs of children who have witnessed domestic violence, to meet children's immediate needs at the scene of the crime, to establish a collateral working relationship between police officers and local domestic violence agencies. 
   Finally--I want my colleague to know that I am actually summarizing this amendment; I am almost finished--crisis nurseries. Families faced with domestic violence also need a safe place for their children during a time of crisis. Mary Ann, a mother of two, was dealing with an abusive boyfriend, and she knew that she needed to end the relationship. Mary Ann 
   turned to a local crisis nursery for help. The nursery volunteers cared for her children while she ended the abusive relationship. The nursery staff played a critical role in supporting and encouraging Mary Ann and helping her to make a better life for herself and her children. 
   This amendment provides funds to States to assist private and public agencies and organizations to provide crisis nurseries for children who are abused, neglected, at risk of abuse or neglect, or who are families receiving child protective services. Nurseries will be available to provide a safe place for children and to alleviate the social and emotional stress among children and families who are impacted by domestic violence. 
   I have to say to you that I believe this amendment that deals with providing support services for children who witness domestic violence is one of the most important amendments I have ever brought to the floor of the Senate. I want my colleagues to believe--not many of them are here, and this is one of the things that bothers me the most. I just don't believe 2 1/2 minutes is going to be enough time. I want Democrats and I want Republicans to understand that for all too many children, at least 3 million children in our country, this is devastating. Every 15 seconds, a woman is battered; every 15 seconds, a woman is battered in her home. A home should be a safe place. These children, even if they themselves aren't battered, they see this violence and it has a devastating impact. It is directly related to this legislation. 
   Judges will tell you that a very high percentage of kids who end up committing violent crime are kids who come from homes where they have witnessed this violence. This amendment is a great amendment which says, we do it at the community level, but we provide the support and the incentives and enable local communities to pull together law enforcement, to pull together child protection people, to pull together welfare department people, to pull together women who work at battered women shelters, to pull together teachers and education people, and we get the support services for these kids that they so desperately need. That is what this amendment is about. 
   Madam President, I will at this time send the amendment to the desk, and I ask my colleague from Utah--I will conclude in 5 minutes. I send this amendment to the desk. I ask my colleague if I could have 5 minutes, and only 5 minutes, to make a statement on one terribly important issue to me, and then I will be done. I send this amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-52-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent to send this amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-53-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-54-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have come to the floor of the Senate several times in the last 2 weeks to talk about Kosovo. When the majority leader was talking about our crowded schedule, I couldn't help but thinking to myself that we need to find the time on the floor of the Senate to have a thorough discussion and debate about Kosovo and what is happening there. 
   This weekend in Korisa, as a result of airstrikes, somewhere in the neighborhood of about, I think, 70 or 80 innocent people were killed. Now, it is quite unclear whether or not we made the mistake, or whether or not the Serbs somehow brought people back to this town and used them as human shields--and they have done that. 
   But I come to the floor of the Senate to make two points. One, about 2 weeks ago, I said I thought we should have a  pause in the bombing. I did not make it open-ended. I made it crystal clear that we would communicate to Milosevic that if he used this 48-hour period of time to repair radar systems, to resupply military, and if he did not stop the slaughter and if he did not remove troops, we would immediately begin to bomb again. But I felt it was critically important to do that because of the momentum of the G-8 countries going to the United Nations and a possible diplomatic solution. 
   I wish we had done that because then there was the bombing of the Chinese Embassy and all that has happened since. I just want to make the following point: I then came to the floor again last week and called for a temporary pause in the bombing, and I do so again this week. I do not want to engage in moral equivalency. I did not want this century to end this way. I did not want Milosevic to be able to get away with what he has been able to get away with, which has been the murder of innocent people, noncombatant civilians. 
   But, by the same token, it troubles me when I read reports that we don't use Apache helicopters for fear that we would be flying too low and we could see some of our Americans shot down and killed. I have that same concern. 
   When I first voted for airstrikes, I assumed we would be 
   prosecuting the war in Kosovo. I assumed this was the risk. I stayed up thinking, my God, we are going to lose people. What if it were my son or daughter? Would I believe they were doing the right thing? 
   I believe our intentions are good, but I think these high-tech, high-fly airstrikes, if it continues on and on, it is going to lead to the death of many other innocent people, and it is going to undercut our moral case. There is no question about it. 
   When we took this vote--and I read from the RECORD and I will conclude on this--I asked my colleague, Senator BIDEN:  
   Could my colleague, for the purpose of the legislative record, spell out the objective? Could my colleague spell out what his understanding is when we say the President is authorized to conduct military operations?  
   Senator BIDEN's response, which I think was a good one, was:  
   My understanding of the objective stated by the President is that his objective is to end the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and the persecution of the Albanian minority population in Kosovo and to maintain security and stability in the Balkans as a consequence of slowing up, stopping, or curtailing the ability of Milosevic and the Serbian VJ and MUP to be able to go in and cause circumstances which provide for the likelihood of a half million refugees to destabilize the region. The objective at the end of the day is, hopefully, that this will bring Milosevic back to the table. Hopefully, he will agree to what all of NATO said they wanted him to agree to, and hopefully that will occur. In the event it does not occur, the objective will be to degrade his military capability so significantly that he will not be able to impose his will upon Kosovo as he is doing now.  
   I suggest that perhaps our objectives have shifted because much of the massacre has taken place--and maybe more would have if not for the airstrikes, I don't know. But many people have been murdered and emptied out of their country, forced out of their country. In addition, this bombing goes way beyond degrading Milosevic's military capacity. 
   So I call on my colleagues to seriously consider a very thorough, honest, serious debate about the war in Kosovo, about where we are, and where we need to go. I don't think any of the options are good. I don't want us to leave and abandon the people. I want the people to be able to go back to their country. I want there to be an international force, a militarized force, and I want people to rebuild lives. But I would like to see much more emphasis on what we need to do to pursue a diplomatic solution to this. I don't think there is any other alternative. It is not going to be the ground troops; it is not going to be Apache helicopters, apparently. I don't think it can be 5 or 6 more months of airstrikes. 
   So, again, I come to the floor today to call for a pause in the airstrikes, very focused, for 48 hours, with clear conditions, the emphasis being on a diplomatic solution to this military conflict. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, I want to make sure I know what is on the list. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, as the majority leader knows, there are some of us who have waited patiently. We have amendments that are right on point with this legislation. We are concerned about things like disproportionate minority confinement, some of the sort of sentencing that has to do with race, some of what is very weak in this bill in addressing that. My colleague from Alabama says it would be a tragedy if this bill didn't pass. Some of us think it would be a tragedy--let me finish if I could. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you. 
   Some of us think it would be a tragedy if this bill passed in its present form without an opportunity to try to make this a much better bill. I gave one example. I can talk about the amendments that deal with juvenile justice and mental health. There has been very little focus on that. I think there has to be a full-scale debate and discussion about what it means when so many kids of color are disproportionately incarcerated. What does that mean in America? And what kind of legislation is this that does not allow States to do the kind of investigation they need to do, or that really doesn't give the States the encouragement to do that kind of investigation so we can understand it better? 
   There are a lot of key issues here that are directly relevant to this piece of legislation. Nobody is talking about 6 weeks. Nobody is talking about 1 month. But in all due respect, you brought the bill out. It is called the juvenile justice legislation. 
   I would like to have an opportunity to vote on this on the justice part. There are a lot of serious human rights abuses in some of these facilities. I have visited some of these facilities in this country, some of which are snake pits. I would like to make sure that these kids, even if incarcerated, are treated in such a way that it is correctional. 
   Don't tell me that the kinds of amendments I have in mind aren't on point. I think we would be willing to move forward on this legislation. I want the majority leader to know that it is not a question of 6 weeks, it is just a question of some of us 
   refusing to essentially be squeezed and jammed, to be told: All right, now we don't focus on a lot of the substance of this legislation. 
   We have amendments. We are ready to debate these amendments. I will bet that if we even went another day, Tuesday, and we could offer amendments Tuesday as well when people are here and then we finish as soon as possible, that we would move forward--if I could just finish. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I could finish my statement; I have been patiently waiting here. 
   Let me just be crystal clear that when I hear colleagues from Utah and Alabama, both of my friends, say it is a great piece of legislation, it would be a tragedy if it didn't pass right now, that they have presupposed what is in doubt about a good piece of legislation. Aren't there places where it could be corrected? Aren't there things we could do better? 
   I give one example: the amendment I introduced with Senator KENNEDY which deals with the whole problem of disproportionate minority confinement. We need time to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I said what I needed to say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. What I thought I heard was no debate, and that all debate would be over. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I could respond to the majority leader, I have amendments that are on point. I am more than ready, willing and able to debate these amendments, but I believe what Senator DASCHLE was saying, and this was the point I was trying to make, in all due respect, the substance of this legislation, the juvenile justice legislation, you can't artificially say by the end of Tuesday that is it; surely, Senators don't have anymore amendments that deal with this topic; surely, we don't have anymore time to spend on this. 
   We are talking about kids. We are talking about how to prevent kids from getting into trouble. We are talking about the best kind of corrections for kids that get into trouble. We are talking about a lot of issues here. 
   I think Senator DASCHLE was saying you just can't simply say if it is not done by Tuesday, it is all over, period. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, I just came down after listening to the debate. I want to ask both my colleagues to put me on as an original cosponsor. 
   The second thing I want to say is in this debate we have been having on this juvenile justice bill, part of the context for this has been the nightmare of Littleton, CO. That is always, ever present. 
   I read a piece the other day--I don't even remember the author, I say to my colleague from South Carolina--but I thought it was very balanced. The author made the point: Yes, you want to go after the guns, but you also want to go after the culture of violence. I think we have to do both. Yes, you want to do much more for prevention for kids before they get in trouble in the first place. Yes, I argue, you want to have support services and mental health services. All these pieces go together. 
   But if I could ask my colleague very briefly, will he just describe this amendment? Will my colleague just briefly describe the very essence of this amendment? Because it seems to me to be very, very mild. I want to be sure I am correct in my understanding.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I think it needs to be repeated one more time what a moderate, commonsense proposal we have here. This is constitutional. This is the right thing to do. As far as I am concerned, any steps we can take, albeit small steps, but significant steps that can reduce this violence, that can deal with this cultural violence, I think is absolutely the right thing to do. I add my support. 
   I heard my colleague from Vermont speaking as a grandfather. Our children are all older, but we have children, and now grandchildren: 8, 5 and almost 4. This is the right thing to do. There should be overwhelmingly strong support for this proposal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have spoken a number of times on the floor of the Senate about the crisis in Kosovo. I think it is important, under the circumstances, that I do so again in order to pose some critical questions that have emerged recently about United States and NATO policy there. 
   I saw a window of opportunity for diplomacy. I was really optimistic given the direction of the G-8 countries. I thought we were then going to be going to the United Nations, and we had an opportunity perhaps through diplomacy to bring this conflict to an end. 
   I think that given what has happened over the weekend, and given the very delicate discussions now underway involving NATO, the U.N. Secretary General, Russia, China, and other key players, it is time to reconsider a proposal that I made 10 days ago: a brief, conditional pause in the airstrike campaign to allow for a de-escalation of this military conflict. 
   Let me be clear. I continue to support the basic military, political and humanitarian goals that NATO has outlined: the safe return of refugees to their homes; the withdrawal of Serb security forces; the presence of robustly armed international forces capable of protecting refugees and monitoring Serb compliance; full access to Kosovo for nongovernmental organizations aiding the refugees; and Serb willingness to participate in meaningful negotiations on Kosovo's status. 
   These goals must be met. But in the wake of the Chinese Embassy accident, NATO needs to be even more focused on diplomacy, and I think we have to be very careful to not appear to be belligerent in our public statements--to be strong in terms of the goals that have to be met but be creative in our diplomacy. 
   I don't really know what there is to the withdrawal of some of the Serb military. Secretary Cohen has raised some very important questions. But on the floor of the Senate, I do want to point out that contrary to some published reports of United States and public statements that suggest that we intend to continue the airstrikes even against Serb forces who may actually be beginning to withdraw, I believe we and NATO should reiterate what we have been saying earlier--that NATO will not strike at Serbian troops who are actively pulling out of Kosovo. 
   How can we expect even the Serbs to withdraw their troops if we have made it clear that we will bomb them on the way out unless they have agreed to full withdrawal and outlined a timetable for it? Is this seeming new emphasis on continuing the airstrikes even if the  troops are withdrawing a change in emphasis, or tone, or is it a substantive change? What precisely would the NATO rules of engagement be if substantial numbers of Serb troops begin to actually withdraw from Kosovo? What did Milosevic's statement on a return to ``peacetime troop levels'' mean? If he means a return to prewar levels, that is a nonstarter. What small token Serb forces, if any, would NATO allow to stay, as long as an armed international presence was allowed? 
   While I understand NATO's decision to remain silent, or to leave some ambiguity on some of these questions, it has created an unnecessarily confusing, and sometimes conflicting, set of policy prescriptions from NATO. 
   Mr. President, while I think a diplomatic solution is the best way to resolve this crisis, I want to make clear that I have no illusions about Milosevic and what he has done. My disgust with his actions was only increased yesterday when I read some of the information in the new State Department report entitled ``Erasing History: Ethnic Cleansing in Kosovo.'' 
   The report catalogs the horrific events that continue to unfold in Kosovo. Interviews with thousands of refugees have revealed brutalities which boggle the mind and sicken the soul. I shudder to think what else we will learn in the months and years to come after looking at forensic evidence within Kosovo. It is clear that even while the bombing campaign has raged Kosovo has been emptied, and it has been burned. 
   Mr. President, let me just make it clear that I know why we have been involved, and I think we have launched our military actions with the best intentions and with what I truly believe was sound moral authority. But I am troubled now by some actions by NATO, including the so-called ``collateral'' damage we have wrought, and the embassy bombing, which I believe may undermine that sense of moral legitimacy. 
   The embassy incident is only the latest of targeted errors which have caused civilian casualties. We have seen errant strikes on a refugee convoy, a civilian train, a bus and other incidents. While I understand clearly the difference between the brutal, deliberate and systematic attacks of Serb forces, which have resulted in the deaths of thousands and displacement of over a million more, and the accidental death of civilians caused by our wayward missiles, any serious moral reflection requires us to consider the impact of our actions on innocent civilians. Taken together, I fear these incidents are beginning to erode the moral authority of our efforts in Kosovo. 
   I do not mean to suggest in any way a moral equivalence between the two. But as the number of civilian casualties mounts, it will become increasingly difficult to justify as we try to balance these regrettable losses against whatever progress we are making toward our goal. 
   One way to put an end to Milosevic's atrocities and to the recurring cycle of collateral damage and NATO apologies may be to pursue a more creative coupling of our military, political and diplomatic goals. 
   Last week, I called for a brief, conditional and reciprocal pause in our military action. I wish we had done so. On NATO's part, this would entail a bombing pause of perhaps 48 hours. Such a pause--if it can be worked out in a way which would protect NATO troops and would not risk Serb resupply of their war machine--could help to reinvigorate--and I think we need to now--diplomatic efforts and halt the steady movement toward bombing that we have now seen which could lead to a deeper involvement and a wider war. Mr. President, we need to reinvigorate our diplomatic efforts, and we need to halt the steady movement in the bombing. We need to figure out a way that we can involve critical parties and countries in a diplomatic effort. 
   While my proposal is not the proposal that comes from the Chinese and Russians, it is more qualified. And it would require a more immediate reciprocal response from Milosevic. 
   I believe we need to take this step. I am not naive about whether we can trust Milosevic. We have seen him break his word too many times with that. We may even be seeing that again now in what NATO leaders have called a ``feint'' of a partial withdrawal. I am not proposing an open-ended halt in our efforts, but I am talking about a temporary pause of 48 hours or so offered on condition that Milosevic not be allowed to use the period to resupply his troops, or to repair his air defenses, and that he immediately order his forces in Kosovo to halt their attacks and to begin to actually withdraw. It would not require 
   his formal prior assent to each of these conditions. But if our intelligence and other means of verification concludes that he is taking military advantage of such a pause by doing any of these things, we should resume the bombing. 
   I believe, however, that we need to take this first step, a gesture, in order to move diplomacy forward and bring these horrors to an end. 
   Let me conclude by saying that as a Senator I have been so impressed by the heroic efforts of nongovernmental organizations to bring humanitarian supplies by convoy to hundreds of thousands of homeless and starving misplaced refugees still wandering in the mountains of Kosovo. I believe a pause might very well serve their interests. It might enable these aid organizations and other neutrals in the conflict to more easily airlift or truck in and then distribute relief supplies to them without the threat of their humanitarian mission being halted by the Serbian military. A Serb guarantee of their safe conduct would be an important reciprocal gesture on the part of Milosevic. These people must be rescued. My hope is that a temporary bombing pause might help to enable aid organizations to get there. 
   Mr. President, I intend to press these questions that I have raised with the administration officials later today. I think we have an opportunity still for diplomacy. We must not allow this window of opportunity provided by the Russians and others to close. 
   I thank my colleagues for their graciousness. 
   I urge the President and his foreign policy advisers to consider steps to deescalate this military conflict, and to work with our allies, with the U.N. Secretary General, with the Russians and others to take advantage of whatever opportunities present themselves to forge a just and lasting peace which restores the Kosovar Albanians to their home, provides for their protection and for their secure futures, allows aid groups access to them, and provides for negotiation on their political status. 
   We must move forward now. I wish that we could have had this pause that I called for 10 days ago. I am extremely worried about the repercussions of the bombing of the embassy in China. I am worried about the events in Russia. I am worried about a window of opportunity for diplomacy closing and more escalation in this military conflict. 
   I think it is important that we take this step under the conditions that I have outlined. 
   I am going to continue to press forward with this proposal. I hope that in the Senate next week we will again have a discussion and debate about the events in Kosovo, about our military involvement, about where we are, about where NATO is, and what we need to do to achieve our objective. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I wasn't going to say anything--reserving the right to object, and I will not, but listening to this discussion, can I reinforce--I as one Senator don't want to delay tonight and going into tomorrow, but can I reinforce the remarks of Senator DASCHLE? 
   Some of us have amendments that are on point on this piece of legislation. We have patiently waited for days and were glad to do so. We don't intend to trivialize our amendments. We don't intend to trivialize the debate. We think these are important issues. That is why we are in the Senate, and we intend to go forward. 
   I will tell you something else. It probably will be hard in the future to get cooperation from Senators who wait, and all of a sudden we find the debate relegated to midnight and on weekends with most Senators gone. That doesn't seem really acceptable to me. 
   We will see what we agree to tomorrow. But I want to express my reservations about the direction of this. There is a whole lot of substantive debate that needs to take place, that hasn't taken place, and will take place. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Emilia Beskind, an intern, be permitted floor privileges during the duration of the debate.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, I could not hear the first part of what the Senator from Utah said. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this will just be an opening statement. I presume we are going to have a lot of time to debate this legislation and all of us will have the opportunity to have amendments we think are relevant and important. Then we will have substantive debate. That is what the Senate is all about. 
   Once upon a time this bill was S. 10. Now it is S. 254. I am not exactly sure about all the provisions in this legislation. I am not exactly sure as to what the Biden-Hatch, or Hatch-Biden, amendment will say, as well. But let me just say at the beginning, what I am quite sure of is that, as I look at this, I do not see a lot of balance. I see a whole lot of emphasis on punitive measures, locking up more children. I do not see a whole lot by way of efforts to keep children from getting into trouble in the first place. I am actually surprised that we have not learned some of the lessons which I think the people who are down in the trenches, working with at-risk kids, have learned. 
   I heard my colleague from Alabama talk, and I like what he did. He talked to people back home. I think if you talk to cops on the beat and you talk to judges and you talk to sheriffs and you talk to counselors and you talk to youth workers, they will tell you we should be doing a whole lot more by way of prevention. As I heard Senator BIDEN talk about the substitute amendment, it sounds like a pittance we are really putting into prevention. 
   Let me also just say I am not a lawyer, I am trying to wade my way through this argument, but I want to make sure this legislation does not weaken certain core protections we have had for children. There is no doubt in my mind that when certain kids commit violent crimes they may very well be tried as adults and they may be faced with stiff sentences. But we have had certain protections for kids which make sure we do not have too many kids in adult facilities. 
   I do not really know exactly whether or not we have a judicial review process of what prosecutors might want to do. I do not know what kind of protections are there. But to me it is really important, because even if you call some of these facilities ``colocated facilities,'' that may just be a fancy word for adult facilities with juvenile wings. As Senator BIDEN was saying, with a considerable amount of power and eloquence, there is disturbing evidence that a whole lot of children--many more children--commit suicide in adult facilities; eight times more often than children held in juvenile detention facilities. I do not think we can take these kinds of risks with young people's lives. Again, I want to really understand whether or not we have the protection we need for kids. 
   I will tell you what is a huge flaw in this legislation, not fixed at all by the substitute amendment or the amendment to the bill or the legislation that is before us right now. This legislation undermines our efforts--and I hope every Senator will feel strongly about this--to deal with the disproportionate confinement of ``minority youth'' in our Nation's jails. 
   In practically every State, children of color are overrepresented at every stage of the juvenile justice system, especially when it comes to secure confinement. Furthermore, they receive unequal treatment by the system.  
   A study in California showed that minority children consistently receive more severe punishments and were more likely to receive jail time than white children for the same crime. Black males are four times more likely to be admitted to State juvenile jails for property crimes than their white counterparts and 30 times more likely to be detained in State juvenile jails for drug offenses than white males. The source is the Youth Law Center study called ``Juvenile Offenders Taken Into Custody.'' 
   Also, let me say at the very beginning of my remarks that it is incredible that here we are at the end of the century--working with kids up to adults--it is my understanding that, roughly speaking, one-third of all African American males ages 18 to 26 or 18 to 30 are either in prison, awaiting to be sentenced, or on probation--one-third of African American males in this country. 
   We ought to think seriously about what that means. In the State of California, I read and, again, I think it is ages 18 to 26--it may be 18 to 30--there are five times as many African American men serving sentences, incarcerated in prison, than in college. We ought to think about what this means. 
   Last month, along with Senator DORGAN, I visited the Oakhill Juvenile Detention Center in Maryland. We were joined by Judge George Mitchell who sits on the D.C. Superior Court. He made an astonishing statement, if anybody wants to pay close attention to this. In talking about the disparity of the treatment of minority children, in his 15 years, as a juvenile judge, having had thousands of juveniles in his courtroom, he has had only two white youths appear before him. That is unbelievable. By the way, this is not due to a dearth of white youth in the District of Columbia, nor is it that they never run afoul of the law. 
   We have a current law that says: States, you need to address this problem and States are directed to identify the extent to which disproportionate minority confinement exist in their State and try to identify the problem, the causes, and what can be done about it. 
   This requirement has never resulted in the release of juveniles who have broken the law, nor any kind of quota system on arrest or release of youth based on race. As a result of the current legal requirement, 40 States to date are implementing intervention plans to address this problem. 
   It seems to me we would want to do this as a nation. S. 254 is a piece of legislation that does not want to mention race and has removed this current DMC requirement. Efforts to remedy the disparate treatment of minority youth that are underway in States is going to be seriously undermined as a consequence of this legislation. As a result of this, our juvenile justice system will fail, as it is now failing, to treat every youth fairly and equitably, regardless of race. 
   I oppose this legislation, given the way it is now framed, and I think other Senators should oppose this legislation for this reason alone. 
   Another issue that is going to come up in our debate--and the legislation does not really address this in any major way--has to do with the issue of gun violence. Please do not 
   misunderstand me. I have been very careful in talking about Littleton and what happened at Columbine High School to simply not make a one-to-one correlation of any particular agenda that I am for because sometimes events in human experience are so dark, so evil that they cannot be flippantly explained. I do not know why those kids did what they did, why they committed murder. It is hard for me to know what really happened. 
   I will tell you this--and by the way, I have been so impressed with discussions with students in Minnesota. Just yesterday at Harding High School, we had a great discussion about education, violence in schools, violence in communities, and those students had so many poignant and important things to say. This I do know: A Washington Post editorial pointed out that 13 children a day in this country are killed by guns. That is, in effect, one Littleton massacre each and every day in the United States. Of the 13 children killed by guns, 8 are murdered, 4 commit suicide--there is a lot of youth suicide in this country; it is hard for me to accept as a father and grandfather--and 1 is killed accidentally by a firearm. 
   I will leave it up to other colleagues to go over the legislation we will have on the floor that is going to be much tougher in terms of how to keep guns out of the hands of kids, much tougher on adults who peddle guns to kids, et cetera. I am saying we have to get a whole lot more courageous and tougher when it comes to this gun legislation. 
   What I want to focus on is the whole question of the criminalization of mental illness. We are talking about a juvenile justice bill. I point out--and I will talk about a piece of legislation that I have introduced, the Juvenile Justice Mental Health Act which has 40 sponsors, including the American Bar Association--a lot of people are talking about juvenile justice and a lot of people are talking about mental health services. I want to make sure we are of substance. I want to make sure we do not engage in symbolic politics. I want to make sure this debate is real. 
   That may sound self-righteous. Sometimes I worry about everybody carrying on about this legislation and the legislation then going nowhere, or people staking out a lot of positions, maybe not even based upon having had any experience for this. I hope we remain very, very focused. 
   One of the things that is going on right now is we have criminalized mental illness. There are a whole lot of people--I am going to talk about kids today--who should not be incarcerated in the first place. There are many children in their very short lives who have been through what children should not go through. 
   When we look at the statistics on kids who are incarcerated, roughly speaking, 1 out of every 5 is struggling with some kind of mental disorder, struggling with mental illness. Moreover--and Senator BIDEN talked about this--many of them struggle with substance abuse, many of them have learning disabilities, many of them come from troubled homes, many of them come from homes where they have seen violence every day. 
   The question becomes whether or not we are going to make some changes in this juvenile justice legislation that responds to these kids' lives. In setting the context, I will say that, despite popular opinion, most of the kids we lock up are not violent. The Justice Department study shows that 1 in 20 youth in the juvenile justice system have committed violent 
   offenses--1 in 20. What has happened is that, No. 1, a lot of kids who could be in community-based treatment who have not committed a violent act instead wind up in these so-called correctional facilities which are not very correctional. And, No. 2, once there--and I am talking about 20 percent of the kids, probably more, kids who struggle with mental illness--the law enforcement community, the guards, the police at these facilities do not know how to treat these kids. Quite often, they do not know with what these kids are dealing. As a result, many kids end up being disciplined within these facilities and put in solitary confinement. 
   As the juvenile justice system casts a wider and wider net, which is the direction of this legislation, and as we have more fear and more intolerance of kids who misbehave or commit nonviolent crimes, we are pushing more and more children into the juvenile system who would not have ended up there in earlier times. In particular, what bothers me to no end is a lot of these kids should not be there. A lot of these kids are struggling with mental illness and should be treated in a community setting, and that is not happening. 
   The warnings are there. There is the school failure. There is the drug and alcohol abuse. There is the family violence. There is the poverty at home. Yet, we do not put the emphasis on community prevention. We do not put the emphasis on early intervention services for these kids. We do not put the emphasis on mental health treatment. As a result, we make the same mistake over and over. 
   There are two amendments--or several amendments--that I am going to offer to this bill. But two of the amendments that I am going to offer are based upon the Mental Health Juvenile Justice Act. It is a comprehensive strategy. We get the money to State and local communities and we provide the mental health services. There is strong support from 40 organizations. When we introduced it with Congressman MILLER about a month ago, I  guess, there was strong support from 40 organizations--every organization, from the American Bar Association to the American Psychiatric Association, the Children's Defense Fund, you name it. And what we are basically saying is, as opposed to warehousing children with mental illness, we provide moneys to State and local communities to identify kids with these problems on the front end of the system, look to alternatives to incarceration, provide mental health services for these kids. 
   Mr. BAUCUS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am not yielding the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague from Montana, I am going to hurry right up. I waited about 3 hours. I am just trying to go through this. I do not plan on going on a long time, but I just want you to understand. I appreciate it. 
   The Mental Health Juvenile Justice Act, which I will basically offer as an amendment, says, A, let's do careful assessments on the front end. Let's not incarcerate kids who do not need to be incarcerated; and, B, let's provide the funding for these facilities to provide mental health services for kids; and let's make sure that the law enforcement community, whether it be on the front end or whether it be in these facilities, is trained to recognize kids who are struggling with mental illness. That is the direction to go in. 
   Right now the situation is absolutely brutal--absolutely brutal. I have spoken on the floor of the Senate before--and I could go on for hours on this, and I will not--about some trips I have taken to some of these facilities. One trip to Tallulah, LA, was enough, although there are other Justice Department reports on Georgia and Kentucky as well, and it is the tip of the iceberg. 
   It is really just unbelievable to read about kids who spend as much as 7 weeks, 23 hours a day, in solitary confinement, to go to these facilities where these kids do not get any treatment whatsoever, kids who are brutalized. To go to the Tallulah ``correction'' facility with all of it privatized out to a private company--TransAmerica Corporation, I think, is the name of the company--and to have kids just blow the whistle on the whole facility, I say to my colleague from Montana, is just absolutely unbelievable. There have been lawsuits filed. 
   It really is, frankly, unconscionable that we put so many of these kids in this situation. And 95 percent of the kids in Tallulah have not committed a violent crime. We are talking about racial disparity. There was a sea of African American faces. There were up to 650 kids, and I bet you 80 percent of the kids were African American children. That is my first point. 
   What I want to do is really put a very strong emphasis on mental health in juvenile justice. I want us to do a much better job as a Nation, and we need to get the resources to the State and local communities to do the assessment, to do the alternatives to incarceration, to make sure kids who are in these facilities get the treatment they need. And right now we are not doing it. 
   We have criminalized mental illness among kids and adults. Many of them should not be in these facilities. And when they are in these facilities, they receive no treatment whatsoever. I want to make sure that with the debate on this legislation and the amendments that are offered we have a very strong focus on juvenile justice and the mental health of kids. That is my first point. 
   My second point is, I think that--well, no. In deference to my colleague from Montana, I will just sort of say it in 1 minute, and make my final two arguments. We are getting to the point now where we have six States, led by California, that are spending more money on prisons than on State colleges and universities. In the State of New York, keeping a juvenile in New York's Division of Youth now costs $75,000 a year. You can send three kids to Harvard for the same amount of money. 
   And I think we have to come to terms with some basic facts. There is a higher correlation between high school dropouts and incarceration than cigarette smoking and lung cancer. It would seem to me, again, we would be doing a whole lot more by way of prevention--I certainly do not think it is in this legislation, albeit there is some minor improvement with 
   the Hatch-Biden amendment which is helpful, but I think it does not give the legislation the balance that it should have. 
   I do not see us doing very much when it comes to the early years. I do not see us doing very much at all. Frankly, if we really want to make a difference, we are going to have to pay some attention to all of these reports that have come out about childhood development. 
   Where is the focus on early childhood development? I thought we were going to do a whole lot to make sure that we do well for children from right after birth to age 3, much less before kindergarten. Why are we not doing that? Kids who come to school behind fall further behind, drop out, and then wind up in jail. When are we going to begin to get real about responding to these children in America? It is not in this legislation. I have not seen it in any legislation that has come out on the floor. 
   The second amendment that I am going to offer has to do with domestic violence. I hope there will be overwhelming support for this. Let me just tell you that above and beyond the focus on women, I am sorry to say that still about every 13 seconds or 15 seconds--what difference does it make; it is just outrageous--a woman is battered in her home. A home should be a safe place. 
   I have been working with a number of people and staff--Charlotte Oldham-Moore, my wife Sheila--and now we find out that we have not done a very good job of really providing support for kids. They may not be battered, but the effect of seeing this in their home over and over and over again, and then going to school, and not doing well, is that they wind up in trouble. 
   So one of the amendments we are going to have is to provide, again, the funding to be able to recognize this and to be able to bring together all of the actors in the community to provide support for these kids. In other words, we can have the greatest teachers, the smallest class sizes, the greatest technology, and a lot of these children are not going to learn unless we get the support services to them early. 
   We are also going to have an amendment, a third amendment, which really does a good job of having much more focus on school-based mental health services. Again, I will have a chance to speak on this, but I think we have to develop a whole infrastructure that focuses on mental health services. And I think it has to be before these kids get into trouble rather than afterwards. 
   Finally, let me just say that there were some comments here which were made that I wish we would have more debate on. I hope when I have amendments I can get people out here debating. But my colleague from Alabama, Senator SESSIONS, over and over and over again was talking about drug testing and the rest. What I do not understand is, if you are going to do the drug testing, how about the treatment as well? We do not do the treatment programs. We do not do the treatment programs. So much of what we see is tied into substance abuse problems. 
   I am going to be working on legislation--we have the bill with Senator DOMENICI to try and end this discrimination in terms of covering mental health services for people. We are not doing that. That is one piece of legislation--including any number of childhood illnesses, autism, or post-traumatic stress syndrome, which, unfortunately, also is something that affects children, or anorexia, or attention deficit disorder. We do not provide any treatment or any coverage for treatment. 
   We act as if these illnesses are not illnesses. There is all this stigma. When are we going to get this right? If we are going to talk about prevention in a juvenile justice bill, we have to have that component. And in the substance abuse, it is the same issue.  
   Where is the parity? Where is there a way of making sure we get the treatment to these kids? It is crazy. So much of this prison construction industry, so many of the people who we are now incarcerating--so many of these kids who are in trouble are in trouble because of addiction. I would love it if my colleagues would just look at the Moyers documentary. Many are viewing brain diseases. We are now talking about the biochemical and neurological connection, and we do not provide the funding. 
   We do not provide the treatment. 
   Mr. President, let me conclude by saying I think we are going to have to do a whole lot better. I will talk a lot about some of my travel around the country and what I have seen with my own eyes, but I bring to the attention of my colleagues, to give this a little bit of context, a report by Amnesty International. It is called ``The United States of America, Rights for All, Betraying the Young.'' Just a few quotes. I am not picking on any particular States, but it is important.  
   ``Judge Zintner, I have an important question to ask you! Would you please move me out of here? Please don't leave me here with all these adults. I can't relate to any of them. They pick on me because I am just a kid. They tease me and taunt me. They talk to me sexually. They make moves on me. I've had people tell me I'm pretty and that they'll rape me ..... I'm even too scared to go eat ..... It's too much for anyone my age to handle ..... Please help me with this.'' Letter from 15-year-old Paul Jensen, imprisoned in South Dakota State Penitentiary, to his sentencing judge, 1997. In September 1998, his mother told Amnesty International that he had not been moved from the prison. 
   ``There are 2.5 psychologists to see the 300 juveniles in general population. This is despite the fact that 40 percent of the juveniles received will be identified ..... as having mental health or suicide watch needs. Because of the number of juveniles that need to be seen, the supervisor has told his staff that they cannot see a juvenile more than three times a month unless they indicate that the juvenile will die if he is not seen more often.'' Official audit of facilities, Virginia 1996. 
   ``..... girls as young as twelve years old were subjected to sexual abuse, received no counselling, no vocational treatment, no case treatment plans or inadequate or inappropriate medical care, were placed in a `levels' program in which the length of time of the juveniles detention could be unilaterally changed, lengthened or shortened depending on the whims of Wackenhut's untrained staff members, and were made to live in an environment in which offensive sexual contact, deviate sexual intercourse and rape were rampant and where residents were physically injured to the point of being hospitalized with broken bones.'' Texas 1998--extract from a complaint filed in court alleging abuses at a juvenile correctional facility operated by the Wackenhut Corporation, a private for-profit company. 
   On a Sunday morning Paul Doramus, recently appointed director of the state agency that is responsible for juvenile justice----  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be done in a moment. I started at 20 after. I will be done in about 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague that I waited for 3 hours and I also deferred to others. Senator MACK needed to speak, and others. I understand that. I will finish up. I said that several times, I think, to my colleague.  
   On a Sunday morning Paul Doramus, recently appointed director of the state agency that is responsible for juvenile justice institutions, visited the Central Arkansas Observation and Assessment Center. He heard a boy sobbing: ``Mister, get me out of here, I want my mother.'' Doramus discovered a 13-year-old boy in an isolation cell, ``sobbing so hard he could hardly speak.'' The boy had been caught in a stolen car and was arrested for theft of property. At the institution he had been disruptive, and staff placed him in isolation. ``As I attempted to talk with him, his calls for help just grew louder,'' Doramus said. The boy's next words jarred Doramus even more. ``Jesus doesn't love me anymore for what I did.'' Doramus held the boy's hands through the cell bars. ``That's not true, partner,'' he assured him. ``He does.'' 
   ``All I could think of was my two kids who were at home, who got the hugs and got the love and got the support,'' Doramus said. ``I thought, God forgive us all. How could we allow kids to live in an environment like this?'' Little Rock, Arkansas, June 1998.  
   This is from an Amnesty International report that came out this past year, November 1998. 
   Mr. President, I have seen these conditions in these facilities. I will have a number of amendments dealing with domestic violence, dealing with mental health and juvenile justice that I have been working on for the past year, dealing with the whole question of how we can get more support for kids before they get into trouble. 
   I look forward to this debate, and I hope before it is all over we will have a balanced piece of legislation. I am sorry for being so sharp in my response to my colleague from Montana, but when I read from such a report--and these are children's lives--I just don't like to be interrupted. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, just very briefly, let me thank Senator ROBB and Senator KENNEDY and say to my colleague from Utah, I look forward to that reauthorization. My focus has been on mental health services. But I tell you, for the last 8 1/2 years I have been in a school about every 2 weeks, and students talk all the time about the need to have more support services. 
   We can no longer view mental health services as icing on the cake. It is part of the cake. If we are serious about juvenile justice and we are serious about prevention, then we need to focus on what we can do. 
   When I meet with teachers and principals and education assistants, they all say to me, many children, in their very small lives, I say to Senator KENNEDY, even by first grade have been through so much that even the smallest class size, best teachers, and best technology will not do the job. 
   This effort, at the community level, to put a focus on mental health services and to have the coordination and make sure this is part of our approach to juvenile justice is right on target. 
   My final point. I have said it a thousand times on the floor of the Senate, and I will shout it one more time from the mountaintop: You can build all the prisons you want to and physical facilities; you will fill them all up, and you will never stop this cycle of violence unless you invest in the health and skills and intellect and character of children. 
   That is what this has to be about. That is what this amendment speaks to. And the vast majority of people in this country understand that essential truth. That is what this amendment is about. That is what this vote is about. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. HATCH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Before my colleague starts, I do have an amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, just on the order of business, I have an amendment I was going to offer with Senator HARKIN. I know colleagues want to leave. I need to talk with Senator HARKIN and make a decision as to what we want to do here, if the manager can give us a couple of minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I was going to introduce an amendment tonight with respect to low-cost lifeline bank accounts with Senator HARKIN from Iowa and my colleague, Senator SCHUMER from New York. This amendment would require banks that establish a bank holding company under the S. 900 guidelines to offer low-cost banking services to their customers. 
   I am not going to talk about this amendment at all tonight, except to say I think this is a most important consumer amendment; it is very important to senior citizens and very important to low- and moderate-income citizens. 
   My understanding, with my colleague from Texas, the chairman, is that we will have an opportunity to bring this amendment up when another banking-related bill comes to the floor, and we will be able to debate this and have an up-or-down vote; am I correct, I ask my colleague from Texas? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the chairman. I yield to my colleague from Iowa. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I also thank the Senator from Texas and the Senator from Maryland. We will certainly bring this amendment to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr President, I am here today to introduce the ``Clean Money, Clean Elections'' campaign finance reform legislation. It is in some ways the ``gold standard'' of true campaign finance reform, against which any more modest legislation ought to be assessed. The conceptual approach it embodies--replacing special interest money in our current system with clean money--is being adopted by state legislatures and in referenda across the country. 
   Some of my colleagues might respond to this announcement by saying that there are other issues that have arisen in this session that are more important than a debate over whether we will comprehensively reform our campaign finance laws. Some might argue that the American people appear to care more about other issues. I would argue, though, that public concern about one issue does not necessarily have to come at the expense of another. And while it is clear that Americans care very deeply about a variety of issues--Kosovo, taxes, education, and Social Security reform first among them--it is also clear that they care very much about the nature of our political system. When asked, 60 percent of Americans say they think that reforming the way campaigns are financed should be a high priority on our National agenda. There is no question in my mind that these people are right--reforming the way campaigns are financed should be, must be, a high priority on our agenda. 
   Many people believe our political system is corrupted by special interest money. I agree with them. It is not a matter of individual corruption. I think it is probably extremely rare that a particular contribution causes a member to cast a particular vote. But the special interest money is always there, and I believe that we do suffer under what I have repeatedly called a systemic corruption. Unfortunately, this is no longer a shocking announcement, even if it is a shocking fact. Money does shape what is considered do-able and realistic here in Washington. It does buy access. We have both the appearance and the reality of systemic corruption. And we must act. 
   In the House, a bipartisan effort is currently underway to force consideration of the Shays-Meehan bill, and the number of signers is slowly building. Yesterday, moderate House Republicans met with Speaker HASTERT to ask for an early vote on the bill. Today, Representative TIERNEY is introducing the ``Clean Money'' companion bill with 38 original co-sponsors. The House is acting on campaign finance reform, as should we on the Senate side. Here in the Senate, we must push forward this spring on tough, comprehensive reform. 
   I wonder if anyone would bother to argue that the way we are moving toward a balanced federal budget is unaffected by the connection of big special-interest money to politics? The cuts we are imposing most deeply affect those who are least well off. That is well-documented. The tax breaks we offer benefit not only the most affluent as a group, but numerous very narrow wealthy special interests. Does anyone wonder why Congress retains massive subsidies and tax expenditures for oil and pharmaceutical companies? What about tobacco? Are they curious why Congress permits a health care system dominated by insurance companies? Or  a version of ``free trade'' which disregards the need for fair labor and environmental standards, for democracy and human rights, and for lifting the standard of living of American workers, as well as workers in the countries we trade with? How is it that Congress ever considers major legislation that directly promotes the concentration of ownership and power in the telecommunications industry, in the agriculture and food business, and in banking and securities? For the American people, how this happens, I think, is no mystery. 
   I think most citizens believe there is a connection between big special interest money and outcomes in American politics. People realize what is ``on the table'' or what is considered realistic here in Washington often has much to do with the flow of money to parties and to candidates. We must act to change this. 
   We must act to change this because the American people have lost faith in the system. People are turning away from the political process. They are surrendering what belongs most exclusively to them, their right to be heard on the issues that affect them, simply because they don't believe their voices will carry over the sound of all that cash. The degree of distrust, dissatisfaction, and outright hostility expressed by the American people when asked about the political process overwhelms me. According to recent polls, cynicism abounds: 
   92 percent of all Americans believe special-interest contributions buy votes of members of Congress. 
   88 percent believe that those who make large campaign contributions get special favors from politicians. 
   67 percent think that their own representative in Congress would listen to the views of outsiders who made large political contributions before they would listen 
   to their own constituents' views. 
   And nearly half of all registered voters believe lobbyists and special interests control the government in Washington. 
   We must act on campaign finance reform. We must act to restore Americans' trust in our political process. We must act to renew their hope in the capacity of our political system to respond to our society's most basic problems and challenges. We must act to provide a channel for the anger that many Americans feel about the current system, and acknowledge the grassroots reform movement that's been building for years. These are our duties, and we must act to move the reform debate forward. 
   As Members of Congress, most pressing for us should be the question of why so many people no longer trust the political process, especially here in Congress, and what we can do to restore that trust. Polls and studies continue to show a profound distrust of Congress, and of our process. Many Americans see the system as inherently corrupt, and they despair of making any real changes because they figure special interests have the system permanently rigged. 
   I do not need to rehash the many serious problems with our campaign financing system. The bottom line is indisputable: the system does not have--and has not had for many years--the confidence of the American people. People have lost faith in Congress as an institution, in the laws we pass, and in the democratic process itself, because of the money chase and its accompanying systemic corruption. Too often in our system, money determines political viability, it determines the issue agenda, and it determines to whom legislators are accountable: cash constituencies, not real constituencies. Most troubling, money often determines election outcomes, and the public knows it. 
   Too many Americans believe that a small but wealthy and powerful elite controls the levers of government through a political process which rewards big donors--a system in which you have to pay to play. Why do you think corporate welfare has barely been nicked, but welfare for the poor and needy in this country has been gutted? The not-so-invisible hand of corporate PACs and well-heeled lobbyists, and huge corporate soft money contributions can be seen most openly here. 
   Too many Americans see our failures ..... 
   to alleviate the harsh, grinding poverty that characterizes the lives of too many of our inner-city residents, 
   to reduce the widening gulf between rich and poor, 
   to combat homelessness, drug addiction, decaying infrastructure, rising health care costs, and an unequal system of education. 
   And they want to know why we can't, or won't, act to address these problems head-on. Americans understand that without real reform, attempts to restructure our health care system, create jobs and rebuild our cities, protect our environment, make our tax system fairer and more progressive, fashion an energy policy that relies more on conservation and renewable sources, and solve other pressing problems will remain frustrated by the pressures of special interests and big-money politics. 
   In thinking about reform legislation, I start with the premise that political democracy has several basic requirements: 
   First, free and fair elections. It is hard to say with a straight face that we have them now. That's why people stay home on election day, why they don't participate in the process. Incumbents outspend challengers 8 or 10-1, millionaires spend their personal fortunes to buy access to the airwaves, and special interests buy access to Congress itself, all of which warps and distorts the democratic process. 
   Second, the consent of the people. The people of this country, not special interest big money, should be the source of all political power. Government must remain the domain of the general citizenry, not a narrow elite. 
   Third, political equality. Everyone must have equal opportunity to participate in the process of government. This means that the values and preferences of all citizens, not just those who can get our attention by waving large campaign contributions in front of us, must be considered in the political debate. One person, one vote--no more and no less--the most fundamental of democratic principles. 
   Each of these principles is undermined by our current system, funded largely through huge private contributions. Contributions that come with their own price tag attached--greater access and special consideration when push comes to shove. It's time for real reform. 
   Over the years, I have introduced and re-introduced campaign finance reform legislation, pushed amendments, organized my colleagues, given speeches, observed a self-imposed fundraising code stricter than current law, fought filibusters, and otherwise tried in every way I could to get tough, sweeping reform enacted into law. All to no avail. To my great regret, campaign finance reform so far has been successfully blocked in Congress by 
   those who oppose it, staunch defenders all of the status quo. 
   Which is why I stand here today, re-introducing the ``Clean Money, Clean Elections'' legislation that we introduced during the last Congress. We have tightened and strengthed some of the nuts and bolts of the legislation, but it is much the same bill that it was when we first introduced it: simple and sweeping, fundamental campaign finance reform. 
   If the 1994 elections are remembered as the year the Republicans swept into power in Congress, then the 1998 elections should go down as the year that special-interest money smothered Washington. Money has always played a role in American politics and campaign spending is not a new problem, but it has exploded during the 1990s. In the 1993-94 election cycle, the national political parties raised $18.8 million in soft money contributions. By the 1997-98 election cycle that figure was up to $193.2 million in soft money. That's nearly a five-fold increase in just under five years. There can be no doubt that big money has become the primary currency of democracy in Washington. 
   In the 1995-96 election cycle, corporations, groups, and individuals representing business interests outspent labor by 12-1. Individuals and PACs representing the natural resource industries (such as gas and oil companies) outspent environmental interests by an estimated 27-1 in contributions to congressional candidates. Political contributions representing finance, insurance, and real estate interests were in excess of $130 million for the last election cycle. In the 1996 election  cycle, less than one-quarter of one percent of the American people made contributions of more than $200 in a Federal election. Yet an astounding eighty percent of all political money came from this tiny group. Of all the economically-interested money given to Congressional candidates, almost none represented the millions of Americans who are poor, or parents of public school children, or victimized by toxic dumping or agri-chemical contamination, or who are small bank depositors and borrowers, or people dependent on public housing, transportation, libraries, and hospitals. It is clear who is represented under the current system and who is shut out. 
   The bill I am introducing today strikes directly at the heart of the crisis in the current system of campaign finance: the only way for candidates of ordinary means to run for office and win is to raise vast sums of money from special interests, who in turn expect access and influence on public policy. Real campaign finance reform needs to restore a level playing field, open up federal candidacies to all citizens, end the perpetual money chase for Members of Congress, and limit the influence of special interest groups. This legislation does all of these things by offering: 
   The strictest curbs on special-interest money and influence. The ``Clean Money, Clean Elections'' legislation bans completely the use of ``soft money'' to influence elections, discourages electioneering efforts masquerading as non-electoral ``issue ads,'' provides additional funding to clean money candidates targeted by independent expenditures, and most importantly, allows candidates to reject private contributions if they agree to participate in the clean money system of financing. 
   The greatest reduction in the cost of campaigns. Because it eliminates the need for fundraising expenses and provides a substantial amount of free and discounted TV and/or radio time for Federal candidates, this legislation allows candidates to spend far less than ever before on their campaigns. 
   The most competitive and fair election financing. By providing limited but equal funding for qualified candidates, and additional funding for clean money candidates if they are outspent by non-participating opponents, this legislation allows qualified individuals to run for office on a financially level playing field, regardless of their economic status or access to larger contributors. Right now, the system is wired for incumbents because they are connected to the connected. The big players, the heavy hitters, tend to be attracted to incumbents, because that is where the power lies. This bill would allow all citizens to compete equally in the Federal election process. 
   And an end to the money chase, shorter elections, and stronger enforcement. ``Clean Money, Clean Elections'' campaign finance reform frees candidates and elected officials from the burden of continuous fundraising and thus allows public officials to spend their time on their real duties. In effect, it also shortens the length of campaigns, when the public is bombarded with broadcast ads and mass mailings, by limiting the period of time during which candidates receive their funding. Moreover it strengthens the enforcement and disclosure requirements in Federal election campaigns. 
   What I am proposing are fundamental changes, necessary changes if we hope to ever regain the public's confidence in the political process. This legislation is both simple to understand and sweeping in scope. As a voluntary system this bill is constitutional, and it effectively provides a level playing field for all candidates who are able to demonstrate a substantial base of popular support. ``Clean Money, Clean Elections'' strengthens American democracy by returning political power to the ballot box and by blocking special interests' ability to skew the system through large campaign contributions. 
   Most importantly, this legislation attacks the root cause of a system founded on private special interest money, curing the disease rather than treating the symptoms. The issue is no longer one of tightening already existing campaign financing laws, no longer a question of what's legal and what's illegal. The real problem is that most of what's wrong with the current system is perfectly legal. Big money special interests know how to get around the letter of the law as it is now written. This current system of funding congressional campaigns is inherently anti-democratic and unfair. It creates untenable conflicts of interests and screens out many good candidates. By favoring the deep pockets of special interest groups, it tilts the playing field in a way that sidelines the vast majority of Americans. This legislation takes special interest out of the election process and replaces it with the public interest, returning our political process to the hallowed principle of one person, one vote. 
   I am not naive about the prospects for campaign finance reform during this Congress, and realize that the sweeping reform bill that I am introducing today is a ``vision bill.'' But that's okay, for as Yogi Berra is reported to have said, ``If you don't know where you're going, you may end up someplace else.'' This is where I want to go, and where I believe the vast majority of Americans would also like to go. In one recent survey, 48% percent of respondents thought they would be more likely to see Elvis than real campaign finance reform. And while this is obviously a somewhat toungue-in-cheek response for many people, I think it also reflects a deeply cynical electorate. For once let's not live down to their worst expectations, and let's pass tough, comprehensive campaign finance reform during this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, might I just interrupt my colleague and ask a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am a little uneasy he is being rushed along. My understanding is at 12:15 we were going to go into morning business; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. There is or is not? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague I did not want him to rush. I will come after the caucuses and speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have a fairly lengthy statement because I am probably one of the few Senators who objects to this bill and I want to lay out my case. I want to talk strongly in the positive about some of what Senator SARBANES is presenting. So I think probably about 40 minutes, I would need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I could just do this, because I do not want my colleague from Maryland rushing along and there are other colleagues out here: I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to speak this afternoon before we get to amendments? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I will be spending some time on S. 900, but I also, in my remarks today, will be focusing on the question of when the Senate is going to start dealing with issues that affect ordinary citizens. I think that is what people in Minnesota would like to know. 
   This is called the Financial Services Modernization Act. I have no doubt that the large banks and lending institutions are all for this. The question I have is, When are we going to come out here with legislation that benefits ordinary citizens?--which I mean in a positive way. I will come back to this later on. 
   The Minnesota Farm Services Administration has now had to lay off close to 60 employees. That is where we are heading. This is an agency, the Farm Services Administration, that is a grassroots organization. They are out there trying to serve farmers. They are out in the field. They pick up on what is happening in rural Minnesota. 
   Right now the message we are sending here from the Congress is, we can't even pass a supplemental appropriations bill that we started working on several months ago to provide spring planting operating money for family farmers. Prices are way down. Income is way down. People are being foreclosed on. It is not just where they work, it is where they live. They are losing their farms, and we can't even get to them some disaster relief money, some loan money, so they can continue to go on until we go back and change this ``Freedom to Fail'' bill that we passed several years ago. 
   I am not telling you that some of the large conglomerates and some of the large grain companies and some of the large packers aren't making record profits. They are. They have muscled their way to the dinner table. They exercise raw political control over family farmers. 
   Meanwhile, this bill, the Financial Services Modernization Act, is all about consolidation and letting large financial institutions have unchecked power. But what we should be talking about is these family farmers going under. 
   I talked with Tracy Beckman today, director of the Minnesota FSA office. He told me that right now we have 340 loan requests, totaling $44.9 million, that are approved but are unfunded due to a lack of funding. Right now there is the possibility, unless we get this funding, that we are going to have 800 farm families in Minnesota that aren't going to get any financing. They need that financing if they are going to be able to go on. 
   Yesterday Tracy Beckman told me the story of a family farmer who found out he couldn't get any loan money and he doesn't have any cash flow. You can work 24 hours a day and be the best manager in the world, and you will not make it as a family farmer right now. He said to one of our FSA officers out in the field, out in the countryside, when he found out that FSA can't help him because we are not able to pass a supplemental emergency assistance program, this farmer said, ``I'm just going to go home and shoot myself and my family.'' 
   This is someone who is desperate. There is a lot of desperation in the countryside. We can't even pass a supplemental appropriations bill that will get some loan money out to family farmers, which we should have done a month ago or 6 weeks ago. Instead, we are out here on the floor talking about the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, 
   the big bank act, the large conglomerate act, the large financial institution act. When are we going to be out here talking about affordable child care, or about raising the minimum wage? When are we going to make sure people get decent health coverage? When are we going to talk about providing more funding for the Head Start Program? When are we going to be out here talking about how to reduce violence in homes, and in schools, and in our communities? When are we going to be out here talking about something that makes a difference to ordinary people? 
   Now, Mr. President, I understand that all of the trade groups support this legislation--that is to say, all of the financial services groups. But I rise in strong opposition to this legislation called the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999. 
   This bill, S. 900, would aggravate a trend toward economic concentration that endangers not only our economy, but, I think, more importantly, it endangers our democracy. S. 900 would make it easier for banks, securities firms, insurance companies, and, in some cases, commercial firms, to merge into gigantic new conglomerates that would dominate the financial industry. 
   Mr. President, this is the wrong kind of modernization at the wrong time. Modernization of the existing, confusing patchwork of laws, regulations, and regulatory authorities would be a good thing; but that is not what this legislation is really about. S. 900 is really about accelerating the trend toward massive consolidation in the financial sector. 
   This is the wrong kind of modernization because it fails to put in place adequate regulatory safeguards for these new financial giants whose failure could jeopardize the entire economy. It is the wrong kind of modernization because taxpayers could be stuck with the bill if these conglomerates become ``too big to fail.'' We have heard that before--``too big to fail.'' 
   This is the wrong kind of modernization because it fails to protect consumers. In too many instances, S. 900 would lead to less competition in the financial industry, not more. It would result in higher fees for many customers, and it would squeeze credit for small businesses and rural America. Most importantly, Mr. President, this is the wrong kind of modernization because it encourages the concentration of more and more economic power in the hands of fewer and fewer people. The regulatory structure of S. 900, as well as the concentration it promotes, would wall off enormous areas of economic decisionmaking from democratic accountability. 
   Mr. President, this is the wrong time to be promoting concentration in the financial sector. S. 900 purports to update obsolete financial regulations, but  the bill itself is already obsolete. This idea has been around for over a decade. But economic circumstances have changed drastically in the intervening years. Today, much of the global economy is in crisis, and this is no time to be promoting a potentially destabilizing concentration of economic power. 
   The banking industry has become more and more concentrated over the last 18 years, and especially during the 1990s. There have been 7,000 bank mergers since 1980. In the last year or so, we have seen megamergers that are the largest in the history of American banking. The merger of NationsBank and BankAmerica would have assets of $525 billion, and the BancOne and First Chicago/NBD merger would have assets of $233 billion. In 1980, by comparison, there were no mergers or acquisitions of commercial banks with a total of more than $1 billion in assets. 
   What is new and different about the situation today is that banks are beginning to merge with insurance and securities firms. The merger between one of America's largest banks, Citibank, and the largest of insurance groups and brokerage groups, Travelers, is probably the best example. This new conglomerate will control over $700 billion in assets. 
   Supporters of S. 900 argue that whether we like it or not, the lines between banking and securities--and the lines between banking and insurance--have already been breached. Regulators and courts have already let banks dabble more and more into securities and insurance, and they have let brokerages invade banking. The battle over Glass-Steagall has already been lost, they say. 
   Well, Mr. President, I am not so convinced. If S. 900 didn't encourage more and bigger mergers, I don't think so many big banks, big insurance companies, and securities firms would be so enthusiastic about it. 
   In fact, passage of S. 900 would set in motion a tidal wave of big money mergers. It would prompt other banks to start courting insurance and securities firms. And it would put increasing pressure on the banks of every size to find new partners. It may be true that we have already come a long way down this road. It may be true that the protections of Glass-Steagall and the Bank Holding Company Act have already been eroded. It is certainly true that we cannot turn back the clock. 
   But it does not necessarily follow that we are doomed to continue down this perilous path wherever it may take us. Yes, regulators have already given banks an inch, but it doesn't mean we have to give them a mile. If the old laws and regulations are inadequate to deal with the changing world of finance, then we need better regulations, not weaker ones. We should not be supplying the wrecking ball that tears down all remaining walls between banking and other risky activities, without first putting into place adequate safeguards. 
   Passing this bill would be an act of monumental hubris. It would reflect a smugness and complacency about our economic policy that I believe is unhealthy and unwarranted. We have heard the argument that America has entered the new age, a ``new paradigm,'' a so-called ``new economy.'' Depression and deflation are relics of a distant past. The old laws of ``boom and bust'' no longer apply. Our superior technology, so the argument goes, will allow us to sustain this economic recovery for another 20 or 30 years, and maybe more. This is the beginning of a long boom. Some have dared to imagine that we have arrived at the end of history. 
   There is a dangerous moral to this story: that we no longer have to prepare for emergencies or guard against disaster; that the safeguards put in place years ago to stabilize the economy can now be safely withdrawn; that a safety net that will never again be tested by adversity can now be safely shredded; that we no longer need to worry about inadequate oversight of markets because the markets can and will police themselves; that bigger is better, antitrust is obsolete, and regulation is passe. 
   I think we are flirting with disaster. We are strolling casually along the upper decks of the Titanic, oblivious to the dangers ahead of us. Remember, the Titanic in its day symbolized the ultimate triumph of technology and progress. Just like these new financial conglomerates, it was considered ``too big to fail.'' Because everybody assumed this flagship of Western technology was unsinkable, they saw no need to take ordinary precautions. They disregarded the usual rules of speed and safety, as Congress is now doing with S. 900. And they failed to store enough lifeboats for all the passengers, which reminds me of nothing so much as the repeal of the welfare entitlement. 
   Mr. President, that is another thing that maybe we should be talking about on the floor of the Senate--what is happening with welfare reform. Later in my remarks, when I am talking about the real issues that affect real people, and in particular poor people, I will return to that. 
   Some of the passengers in first class may be oblivious, but the world economy is still in a precarious state. Most of Asia is still in a depression. The Japanese economy is slugging through the 9th year of an unshakable slump. Russia has been mired in a depression for 8 years, its economy shrunk to half its former size. Brazil is entering into recession, with serious implications for all of its Latin American neighbors. European economies are showing signs of weakness. 
   In the face of these sobering developments, the solution offered by this legislation is simply more of the same--more deregulation, more mergers, more concentration. At precisely the moment when, for the first time in 50 years, we face some of the hazards that Glass-Steagall was designed to contain, Congress wants to tear down the remaining firewalls once and for all. 
   We seem determined to unlearn the lessons of history. Scores of banks failed in the Great Depression as a result of unsound banking practices, and their failure only deepened the crisis. Glass-Steagall was intended to protect our financial system by insulating commercial banking from other forms of risk. It was designed to prevent a handful of powerful financial conglomerates from holding the rest of the economy hostage. Glass-Steagall was one of several stabilizers designed to keep that from ever happening again, and until very recently it was very successful. 
   But now S. 900 openly breaches the wall between banking and commerce. 
   And what about the lessons of the savings and loan crisis? The Garn-St Germain Act of 1982 allowed thrifts to expand their services--people in the country will remember this--beyond basic home loans, and only seven years later taxpayers were tapped for a multibillion-dollar bailout. I'm afraid we're running the same kind of risks with this legislation. S. 900 would lead to the formation of a wide array of ``too big to fail'' conglomerates that might have to be bailed out with taxpayer money. These financial holding companies may well be tempted to run greater risks, knowing that taxpayers will come to their rescue if things go bad. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. As long as I continue to have the floor, I will be pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me say to my colleague that initially--and I appreciate what he is saying and because of that, I will try to bring it to a close--I said I thought it would take 40 minutes. My colleague was gracious enough to say, take the time you need, take an hour and a half, whatever you need. I think that is actually part of the RECORD. 
   And when he said that--I usually take direction from my colleague from Texas--I thought to myself, well, if I have an hour and a half to talk about the issues that I think we really ought to be talking about, I will take that. So I am about ready to finish up on that hour and a half. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to, although I want to make sure that I focus on some of these other issues. Let me yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, it is a fair enough question. In answering the question, let me say that I actually just did have an opportunity to be in a session with Secretary Rubin in which several of us expressed the very concerns that I have taken an hour to express. He said they are very valid concerns. ``On balance, I think it is better that we do this'' was what he said. 
   And then when we had a discussion about CRA--and I have devoted a good deal of my time talking about that--the Secretary was very clear about the President's veto letter and very clear that it was important that we maintain these CRA provisions. 
   Of course, the Secretary is interested in this legislation, though it wasn't quite the same report I heard that my colleague heard. I say one more time--I am coming to the end of my remarks--that in deference to all my colleagues out here, I know this Financial Services Modernization Act has the support of the industry groups and has the support of the financial institutions. Of course, because it is going to lead to more concentration of power and give them more say.  
   I am sure Alan Greenspan would like it. The Federal Reserve Board is going to have even more power--an unelected body with yet even more decisionmaking power over decisions that vitally affect people's lives. But I have to tell you, in all due respect to one of my favorite colleagues, the Senator from Utah, one more time, besides believing this piece of legislation is a huge mistake, I won't support this legislation in its present form. 
   I won't support the alternative, the substitute, either. Besides thinking it is a huge mistake, for reasons I have argued over the last hour--and my colleague from Texas was gracious enough to give me that opportunity--I also want to say one more time to family farmers in the State of Minnesota right now that this Financial Modernization Services Act doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean a thing. They want to know why we are not getting some loan money out to them right now because they are in such desperate shape. They are trying to live to be able to farm another day. 
   To the people who are going to be laid off in Minnesota FSA, who are doing the good work of trying to process loans and help people, but have no money to work with, I think it is absolutely outrageous. To all the farmers in economic pain because we are not doing a darn thing about getting farm income up, or about getting price up, or a darn thing to take on some of these big grain companies and packers so family farmers can get a fair shake in the marketplace, I am for putting more free enterprise back into the food industry. It is the big monopolies I don't care for. These farmers have every reason to wonder what we are doing here. 
   I will tell you one more time that the people in the cafes I have been in are not talking about this particular legislation; they don't see this as a crisis. Alan Greenspan may see the world in a very different way than people in the cafes in Minnesota, and so might the Secretary. Certainly these financial institutions do. Certainly Wall Street does. 
   But people in Minnesota are not particularly interested in mergers, acquisitions, and all this consolidation of power. They are interested in a good job at a good wage. Why aren't we out here talking about raising the minimum wage? 
   They are interested in not falling between the cracks when it comes to health care coverage. Why aren't Senators talking about decent health care coverage for people? They are interested in how they can afford prescription drugs. Why aren't Senators talking about affordable prescription drug coverage for seniors, and, for that matter, for all of us? They are interested in how there can be a decent education for their children. Why aren't Senators having a major debate about education or getting resources to communities so we can do a better job of educating our children? They are interested in how we can reduce violence in homes, in schools, and end the violence in our communities. Why aren't Senators out here with legislation that deals with that? They are interested in how to earn a decent living and how to give their children what they need and deserve. They are interested in making sure that every child, by kindergarten, comes to school ready to learn. Why aren't we investing in good, developmental affordable child care? 
   That is what they are interested in. 
   We are not dealing with any of those issues. I want to know when Senators are going to come out on the floor and deal with pieces of legislation that dramatically affect ordinary people, working families in my State and working families around the country. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. BENNETT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I know Senator BYRD wants to speak. I wonder whether I could ask unanimous consent that after the Senator from Arizona and the Senator from West Virginia speak, I be allowed to speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will try to keep this under 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I say to Senator MCCAIN, I believe silence equals betrayal, and I think we should be debating this question. Besides having a great deal of respect for him, I appreciate his efforts. We may be in disagreement, but I thank the Senator from Arizona for his important efforts. 
   It was with this deep belief in my soul that I voted 6 weeks ago to authorize the participation of the United States in the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia. I did so with a heavy heart and not without foreboding, because I knew once unleashed, a bombing campaign led by the world's greatest superpower to put a stop to violence would likely lead to more violence. Violence begets violence, and yet there are those extremely rare occasions when our moral judgment dictates that it is the only remaining course available to us. 
   I did so because it was my judgment that we had exhausted every diplomatic possibility and that our best and most credible information was that without military action by the United States, a humanitarian disaster was about to occur. 
   Just as the Senate was about to conduct a rollcall vote on the subject, I sought to make sure that the RECORD reflected the rightness of our course of action. 
   I was assured that our purpose was to prevent the imminent slaughter of thousands, if not tens of thousands, of innocent civilians living in the Yugoslav province of Kosovo by Serb security forces. 
   I had no doubt about the wisdom and correctness of our decision, and today I harbor no second thoughts about the morality of the initial course. Others may question the reasoning of some who embarked upon the bombing campaign. History will judge whether there were other rationales involved: the significance of prior threats we had made and how our credibility was on the line; the geopolitical factors that required that we act; the continued viability of NATO as a force to be reckoned with throughout the world. 
   Whatever the importance these factors may have played in the decisions of others to authorize the bombing, my own was a simple one: Inaction in the face of unspeakable, imminent, and preventable violence is absolutely unacceptable. In short, the slaughter must be stopped. 
   I have no regrets about that decision. The violence perpetrated against the innocents of Kosovo has been, indeed, unspeakable. My only regret is that our actions have been less effective than I had hoped: over a million humans, mostly women and children, uprooted from their homes; hundreds of thousands expelled from their country, and their homes and villages burned; women raped, thousands of the residents killed, and children separated from their families. 
   The catalog of these atrocities expands every single day. 
   Just last week, the Serb paramilitaries in southern Kosovo reportedly forced between 100 and 200 young men from a convoy of refugees heading for the border, took them into a nearby field, made them drop to their knees, and summarily executed them, leaving their bodies there as a warning to their fellow refugees. 
   The catalog of horror goes on and on and on. 
   I met a woman from Kosovo in my office on Friday with a businessman. They told me of four little children they had met in a refugee camp. The children had bandages over their eyes. They thought perhaps they had been near an explosion. That was not the case. The Serbs had raped their mother. They had witnessed the rape, and the Serbs cut their eyes out--they cut their eyes out. I do not understand this level of hatred. I do not understand this frame of reference. I have no way of knowing how people can do this. 
   We have witnessed the destabilization of neighboring countries who cannot possibly handle the new masses of humanity heaped on their doorstep. Hundreds of thousands are homeless, without shelter and food, wandering throughout the mountains of Kosovo, frightened and in hiding. Certainly war crime prosecutions await the perpetrators. And we cry out for justice to be done. 
   We watch the humanitarian relief efforts underway by our own Government, by our European friends, by the offices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and by countless nongovernmental humanitarian relief organizations, and we weep at the abundant good that exists in the world in the face of the unspeakable horror. 
   As I said, legitimate questions remain. There will undoubtedly be hearings relating to the wisdom and timing of our decision to enter this conflict. But that time is not now. So long as our military forces are engaged in this mission, they deserve our full support. 
   I began my statement with the phrase ``silence is betrayal.'' I believe it is time to speak out once again, this time about where we are and where we are headed. 
   First, I want to express my strongest possible support for 
   diplomatic efforts  to resolve this crisis, especially the shuttle diplomacy undertaken by Deputy Secretary Strobe Talbott, and the response of the Yeltsin government in sending Mr. Chernomyrdin to speak with President Clinton here today about his latest concrete proposals for resolving this crisis. 
   As the NATO bombing campaign enters its sixth week, I think it is imperative that we put as much energy into pushing and pursuing a diplomatic solution to the Kosovo crisis as we are putting into the military campaign. We see exhaustive daily briefings on our success in hitting military targets. I would like to see an equal emphasis on evaluating our success in achieving our diplomatic goals. 
   I have the greatest respect for Strobe Talbott, and I think he is representing us ably in our efforts to engage the Russians in helping to forge a negotiated settlement in Kosovo. I have told him recently how important I believe it is that we not simply try to get the Russians to agree to NATO's view on how a settlement should be reached. 
   I support the basic military, political, and humanitarian goals which NATO has outlined: the safe return of refugees to their homes; the withdrawal of Serb security forces--or at least to halt the bombing, a start on their withdrawal, with a commitment to a concrete timetable; the presence of an armed international force to protect refugees and monitor Serb compliance; full access to Kosovo for nongovernmental organizations aiding the refugees; and Serb willingness to participate in meaningful negotiations on Kosovo's status. 
   But there are different ways to meet these goals. We need to be open to new Russian ideas on how to proceed, including the key issue of the composition of an international military presence--and it must be a military presence--to establish and then keep the peace there. 
   We should welcome imaginative Russian initiatives. I think the Russians have shown once again--by President Yeltsin's engagement on this issue and by his appointment as envoy of a former Prime Minister--a sincere willingness to try to come up with a reasonable settlement. 
   Let's encourage them to put together the best proposals they can and assure them that NATO will be responsible and flexible in its response. 
   I am heartened by the former Prime Minister's visit today to the United States, and that United States-Russian diplomatic channels are open and are being used continuously. These channels should be used continuously to keep the Russian mediation efforts on track, if possible. 
   I think it is imperative that we not sit back and hope that more bombing, or expanding the list of targets, will eventually work. We really need to put all the effort we can into our diplomacy. I think, as I have said, the Russians may have a key role to play. 
   Second, we must keep uppermost in our mind that a humanitarian disaster of historic proportions is unfolding in refugee camps throughout the region. 
   The American people have been horrified by the situation in Kosovo and are anxious to help. Now is not the time for the U.S. Government to be parsimonious about our humanitarian assistance. The lives and well-being of the Kosovars was at the crux of why we entered this crisis in the first place. I believe we may need to bolster the current funding request by several hundred million dollars to provide the aid that will be needed by international aid organizations, the religious community, and others deeply involved in the refugee effort. 
   If it turns out that it is not necessary, we can return the funds to the Treasury. But we should authorize more now, anticipating that we and other NATO allies who will share this burden will be called upon to do much more in the coming months. 
   Medical supplies, food, basic shelter, blankets, skilled physicians and trauma specialists to aid the refugees, longer-term economic development, and relocation aid all will be critical to relieving this crisis. 
   Third, on the conduct of the military campaign, we must remember that NATO forces undertook this bombing campaign to stop the slaughter and protect those living in Kosovo. Let me repeat that. The most immediate and important goals of our bombing campaign, from my perspective, were to stop the slaughter and mass displacement of millions of innocent civilians throughout Kosovo and deter further Serb aggression against them. 
   So far that goal has gone unmet, with terrible results and a very high human cost. Some NATO military officers have been quoted as saying the bombing campaign alone will not and cannot stop the ethnic cleansing. 
   While it is clear that we made progress in weakening the Serb military machine, including its air defenses, supply lines to Kosovo, oil and munitions sites, other military sites, the hard truth is that while the bombing campaign has gone on, Kosovo is being looted, emptied, and burned. 
   Now that the Apache attack helicopters and accompanying antimissile systems have arrived in the region, we should be pressing forward with these airstrikes against these paramilitary forces in Kosovo most responsible for the most brutal attacks on civilians. There can be no excuse for further delays. 
   Mr. President, it is clear that we have not stopped the slaughter. Ethnic cleansing, which we sought to stop, goes on and on and on. 
   Our response has been to intensify the bombing, especially in Serbia, and to expand the targets to include economic and industrial sites there. Some of these were originally chosen because they were said to be ``dual use.'' I understand that rationale. But now some seemingly nonmilitary targets appear to be selected--including the radio and TV network, Milosevic party headquarters, the civilian electricity grid, and other seeming civilian targets--to put pressure on the people of Serbia who, it is hoped, will in turn put political pressure on the Milosevic regime to back down. 
   I think this reasoning is pure folly and cannot be used to justify the expansion of civilian targets to be bombed. True military targets are legitimate. Certain dual-use targets, especially those directly related to the Serb war effort, may be. But I know of no rules of war which allow for the targeting of civilian targets like some of those we have targeted. We should rethink this strategy, not the least because it undermines the legitimate moral and political claims we have made to justify our military efforts to protect innocent civilians in Kosovo. 
   Expanding the target list in this way is wrong. Not only does the expansion of civilian, industrial and economic sites greatly increase the risk of civilian casualties, but it is morally questionable if the primary purpose is to do economic harm to the civilian population--people who have nothing to do with the violent ethnic cleansing campaign being conducted by the Serbian military machine. 
   What are the future military plans being discussed? These now apparently include an embargo against future shipments of oil to Yugoslavia. Russia is the Serbs' major oil supplier. What if oil shipments continue to come from Russia? Will Russian transports be the next targets of NATO forces? 
   Mr. President, this resolution, as open-ended as it is, is not the right way to proceed on this complex and difficult question. It reminds me in some ways of the now infamous Gulf of Tonkin resolution which helped trigger the Vietnam war. It is too open-ended, too vague, and I will not vote for it. NATO military commanders have not asked for ground troops. The President of the United States has not asked Congress to authorize them. We should promptly table this resolution later today. Even one of its principal sponsors, Senator BIDEN, has observed that they did not intend for this resolution to be brought to the Senate floor now under the expedited procedures of the War Powers Act. But even though we will likely table it, we must continue to move forward in our efforts to achieve a prompt, just and peaceful end to this conflict. And we should have the debate. 
   Once again, I cannot be silent. In short, I think it is time for all the parties to consider a brief and verifiable timeout. Yes, a timeout before we proceed further down the risky and slippery slope of further military action, before it is too late to turn back. 
   There are negotiations underway. There are pivotal efforts being undertaken by the Russian leaders. There are discussions. There are proposals and counterproposals being discussed.  Some are being interpreted in different ways by different parties. Ideas are being explored. 
   Some of our friends in and out of NATO are discussing various ways to end this nightmare. The continued evolution of these plans must be given a chance. There is no ``light at the end of the tunnel'' unless renewed diplomacy is given a chance to work. 
   With the former Prime Minister and the President talking today, what I am proposing on the floor of the Senate for consideration, if it can be worked out in a way which would protect NATO troops and would not risk Serb resupply of the war machine, is a brief and verifiable halt in the bombing, a cessation of what seems to be the slide toward the bombing of a broader array of nonmilitary targets, a potential oil embargo directed at other countries, and toward deeper involvement in a wider war that I believe we could come to regret. 
   I am not naive about whether we can trust Milosevic; we have seen him break his word too many times for that. Nor am I proposing an open-ended halt in our effort; but a temporary pause of 48 hours or so, offered on condition that Milosevic not be allowed to use the period to resupply troops or to repair his air defenses and that he immediately orders his forces in Kosovo to halt their attacks and begin to actually withdraw. It would not require his formal prior assent to each of these conditions, but if 
   our intelligence and other means of verification concludes that he is taking military advantage of such a pause by doing any of these things, then we should resume the bombing. .I believe that we may need to take the first step, a gesture, in the effort to bring these horrors to an end. 
   Such a pause may well be worthwhile, if it works to prompt the cessation of the ethnic cleansing and a return of Serb forces to their garrisons. .It may create the conditions for the possibility of further talks on the conditions under which NATO's larger term goals, which I support, can be met. .A brief cessation might also enable nongovernmental organizations and other ``true neutrals'' in the conflict to airlift or truck in and then distribute relief supplies to the internally displaced Kosovars who are homeless and starving in the mountains of Kosovo, without the threat of this humanitarian mission being halted by the Serbian military. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, Earth Day is a celebration of the value and importance of our natural environment and a reminder of our duty to protect, rather than carelessly exploit and deplete, our natural heritage. Our commitment to future generations is something we in Minnesota take very seriously. It is a commitment to ensure that the environmental legacy we pass on to our children and grandchildren is not marred by failures such as the poisoning of our oceans, rivers, lakes and streams, the destruction of the natural habitat, and the irreversible extinction of species. 
   Environmental concerns have always been very important to me and to Minnesotans, and I am proud of the progress that we are making in protecting the environment. However, while recognizing the progress we have made, we Minnesotans also realize how much more needs to be done. 
   That is why I feel it is very appropriate that Senator ROTH, myself, and several of our colleagues, are introducing legislation on this day to designate a portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska as wilderness. My good friend Congressman BRUCE VENTO from Minnesota, along with over 150 of his colleagues, have introduced similar legislation in the House, called the Morris K. Udall Wilderness Act. This legislation is a tremendous step forward, crucial to preserving the biodiversity of one of our nation's last remaining frontiers. 
   This bill will designate the coastal plain of the Arctic Refuge as wilderness, protecting 1.5 million acres of some of the most unspoiled wilderness remaining in the United States. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a one-of-a-kind national treasure, home to many unique species of plant and animal life, several of which are considered endangered or threatened. This magnificent wilderness contains a complete spectrum of arctic and sub-arctic ecosystems, which can be found nowhere else on the continent. 
   Moreover, the fragile balance of life in this wilderness is critical to the survival of the native Gwich'in Athabascan Indians of northeast Alaska, who depend on the land to maintain their centuries-old nomadic way of life. The Gwich'in rely on the 150,000-strong Porcupine River caribou herd, whose calving grounds are on the coastal plain. 
   Unfortunately, a few multinational oil companies have set their sights on this crown jewel of America's wilderness to extract their short-term profits. Oil drilling on the coastal plain would mean despoliation of this pristine land with hundreds of oil rigs, pipelines, air strips, and other industrial facilities. It would destroy one of the most magnificent wilderness areas in North America. 
   And it would do so much harm for so little gain. Allowing these multinationals to boost their profits by drilling oil would do nothing to solve our energy problems. The amount of oil that could potentially be recovered from the Refuge is relatively small, and most of it would likely be exported to Asia. 
   Instead of promoting oil drilling that destroys our natural environment, we should be promoting renewable sources of energy. In so doing, we could save more energy than would ever be extracted from the coastal plain of the Arctic Refuge. 
   Polls show that Americans strongly support protection of the Arctic Refuge. Yet the oil lobby in Washington has never suffered from a lack of representation. The oil multinationals pressure Congress every year to open up this coastal plain to drilling. It's time Congress stood up for the public interest, rather than the economic interests of the largest oil companies. 
   We have a responsibility to protect the environment for future generations. We must voice our protest and prevent those reckless policies which ignore the real costs of exhausting our natural resources and permanently distort our ecosystem's fragile balance. 
   We must continue to be a world leader in deterring the destruction of our natural heritage. We must continue to facilitate and promote successful programs that help us conserve and use our lands and resources wisely. 
   As we celebrate the last official Earth Day of the twentieth century, we must ensure that we will have cause to celebrate Earth Day in the twenty-first century. This legislation represents a significant step in the right direction, and I urge my colleagues to join us in cosponsoring this legislation on this very special day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, parliamentary inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I have been down here for about an hour and a half. I was under the impression that I would follow Senator KENNEDY. I am in opposition to this bill. I was supposed to have an hour to speak. This is the only time, actually, I have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you. 
   I say to my colleague from Vermont, I will not take up all that time, but my colleague from Virginia asked to speak briefly. So I ask unanimous consent that he be allowed to speak for several minutes, and then I follow him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. These are good friends, but I know Senators' ``short minutes.'' I also have to leave to meet with a lot of students from Minnesota. I ask unanimous consent that my colleague from Virginia be allowed to speak for a few short minutes and then my colleague from Connecticut, who asked to speak, be allowed to speak for a few ``short minutes,'' after which I will be able to speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I amend my unanimous consent request. I ask unanimous consent that Senator KENNEDY not be allowed to speak, as he can't speak for a few ``short minutes.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I don't know that I have anything to add to what other Senators have said about the awfulness and terror of what happened in Colorado. I really don't know--as Senator DODD and Senator HUTCHINSON have said--what this means in personal terms. I simply say to Senators NIGHTHORSE CAMPBELL and ALLARD and the people of Colorado, as the Senator from Minnesota, I send my prayers, my love and support. I wish to God that it was within my ability to snap my fingers, or to be able do something to have prevented this from ever happening. I wish I could understand how kids--children--could ever do this. I actually don't know the answer. 
   I certainly agree with colleagues who have talked about measures that try to make it as difficult as possible for kids to get ahold of guns. I do a lot of work in the mental health area. I know it can't do any harm--it can only do good--to see whether we can do better by way of working with kids at a young age, and maybe we can head off kids that are heading in this direction. When such a God-awful act of violence is committed, it is very difficult to understand why. It is very difficult to understand why. I suppose that anything and everything that can be better in a family, should be better in families and better in communities and better in churches and synagogues and mosques, and in legislation that would pass. But for today, I just want to, as a Senator from Minnesota, express my sorrow. I wish yesterday had never happened. 
   Mr. President, I find myself in the position of speaking against this conference report. My colleagues have talked about some things that happened in conference committee that they felt were positive, and I agree with them. I am going to divide my argument up into two parts. Part 1 is sort of to say, I think there is a distinction between flexibility, and I think--having been a community organizer for several decades, I think that the more people are able to make positive things happen at the local and community level, including the school district level, the better. So I think when it comes to the title I program, you really do want decisions about whether or not you put more of the money into teaching assistants, or into community outreach, or into other things--many of those decisions to be made at the local level. 
   I will tell you why I think this Ed-Flex bill legislation is a profound mistake--however well-intentioned those who are proposing it and who have fought for it are, like Senator WYDEN here on the floor; it is just an honest difference of opinion. If I am wrong, I will be glad to be wrong. My own feeling is that this piece of legislation will actually be a step backward. The reason I say that is that when we passed  the Elementary and Secondary Education Act back in 1965, a lot of sweat and tears went into that. 
   Part of the idea then and over the years--we are talking about a 30-year history here, 30 years plus--is that you wanted to have certain core requirements, certain core standards that had to be met. And in particular, we wanted to make sure that, as a national community, we made a commitment to poor children and that there were certain kinds of core standards that every school district in the land had to meet in this title I program. 
   So I introduced an amendment to the Ed-Flex bill in which I took the basic core requirements and I said, look, under no circumstances are we going to enable a State to allow a school district to be exempt from the following requirements. Let me just read these. This is incredible, what happened on the floor of the Senate. That is why I am going to be the only vote against it, though I wish others would vote against it. What were these core standards that would not be waivable? They are: Provide opportunities for all children to meet changing achievement levels--I will list a few. Provide instruction by highly qualified professional staff. Provide professional development for teachers and aides to enable all children in the school to meet the State student performance standards. Review on an ongoing basis the progress of participating children, and revise the program, if necessary, to provide more assistance to children, to enable them to meet the State student performance standards. 
   This amendment just said, when it comes to the basic core requirements and core protection of title I for all children in America, the heart and soul of what we did with title I, going back to 1965, we weren't going to waive these. No, we weren't, because we were going to make sure that these title I children--even if they are low-income children, we were going to make sure they were going to get good instruction and make sure that every title I program in every school district at least lived up to these standards. Now we have a piece of legislation, with all due respect to all of my colleagues, that allows a State to allow its school district to exempt itself 
   from these requirements. 
   I introduced this amendment which would have straightened out this legislation. It was basically a party vote; it was a straight party vote, really. I am sorry I didn't get more support from Republicans. I am really sorry more Democrats aren't voting against this bill. That is just my own honestly held view. 
   Here is what is so troubling about this. I will try not to be technical. What would have been the harm in keeping these core requirements? Surely, I can tell you the school districts in Minnesota would say, fine, keep that core requirement because this is what we want to do and this is what we do. 
   Why would this core requirement be considered overly bureaucratic or cumbersome or regulatory for any school district in America? The idea that you have highly qualified instruction and you hold children to high standards and you do everything you can to make sure children meet these standards, why would any school district want to be exempt from the core requirements of the title I program? My argument would be that they would not. This would not be a problem--unless you have the potential for abuse. And you do. That is what is going to happen. We have moved away from a kind of value which says that we, as a Nation, have certain kinds of core commitments and beliefs, and one of them is that we are going to make sure there is protection and some commitment to poor children in America when it comes to education. 
   This piece of legislation called Ed-Flex does away with that basic commitment. That is why I will vote against this. That is why I will be proud to be one to vote against this. 
   Mr. President, my second point is a little different. I am going to say this with not bitterness but with some anger. I just want people in the country to know as I get a chance to speak before the Senate, every time I get a chance to speak, I think I am really lucky. I am one of 100 people who gets a chance to speak on the floor of the U.S. Senate. I get to say what I believe is right. I try to marshal evidence from my point of view. 
   I want people in our country to know that not only is this piece of legislation, I think, not a step forward but a great leap backward; it also is a great leap sideways. 
   When I am in schools and I meet with students and I meet with parents--I have been in a school about every 2 weeks for the last 8 years since I was elected to the Senate. I have been in inner-city schools. I have been in rural schools. I have been in suburban schools. I don't meet parents and children or students who talk to me about Ed-Flex. They do not even know what it is. They don't even know what it is. They talk about, ``Senator, this school is crumbling. This school is not an inviting place for us to be. Can't there be some Federal dollars that will enable us to rebuild our crumbling schools?'' Or, ``Senator, you had better believe that with smaller classes teachers could spend more time with us. And the best teachers are teachers who spend time with us.'' 
   Where is the commitment to smaller classes? 
   Or, ``Senator, you want to know the best single thing you could do. You could make sure that somehow we would address this learning gap,'' where so many kids come to school already way behind having never really had the opportunity to have been read to widely, to have really received that kind of intellectual stimulation with the absence of affordable child care, or so little of it is available and they come to school behind. Then they fall further behind. Then they drop out. And then they wind up in prison. 
   Again, I hope I am right about this. I am trying to oversimplify it. But I believe--I read it, I think, in the New York Times, or somewhere--that in the State of California, I think between the ages of 18 to 26, there are five times as many African American young men in prison than in college. That is stunning. 
   Let's not hype this legislation. Let's not pretend like we have done something great which will lead to the dramatic or positive improvement in the lives of children. 
   There is not one cent more for title I. Let me just tell you. In my State of Minnesota, we have schools there where 65 percent of the kids are low income, free or reduced lunch program participants. And they don't get any title I money. They have run out of the money. 
   All over the country there are schools with a huge percentage of kids who could use the additional reading instruction, who could use the additional encouragement. 
   The title I program does great things. There is a lot of good work being done. 
   I assume my other colleagues did this. I met with title I teachers and title I parents. I met with kids around the State of Minnesota. There is a lot of good work being done. 
   Does Ed-Flex add $1 to a program that is severely underfunded? No. Do you want to know what is worse? We are not going to, not with this budget that we have. 
   Let's be clear about this. This program, according to Rand Corporation, is funded at about the 50-percent level. I think the Congressional Research Service said it is at about the 33-percent level. 
   Given the budget resolution that we have and 10 years of tax cuts, we will see who gets the major benefit. And with the money put aside for Social Security and reducing the debt, do you think there is going to be any money that is going to go into increased funds for title I? No. Does this piece of legislation do anything by way of making child care more affordable? No. Does it do anything about the Head Start program? No. The Head Start Program has served--I can't even remember now. I had the figure. I spoke to a national gathering in Minnesota, a great group of people. I think the Head Start Program has served maybe 17 million children since 1965. 
   Do you know that the Head Start Program, the goal of which is to give a head start to kids who come from impoverished backgrounds, isn't even funded at a 50-percent level? Do you know that with Early Head Start, Mr. President, which is ages under 3, 3 and under, the most important years for development, do you know how many of the 3 million children who are eligible for some Head Start help so they  get a head start and do better, do you know how much funding we have for them? One percent. 
   I would love it if somebody would come out here on the 
   floor of the Senate--I would actually give up the rest of my time--and say, ``You are wrong, PAUL. Given the budget resolution that we passed, we are going to be committing more money to Early Head Start. We are going to be committing huge amounts of money to making sure there is good child care for children before kindergarten.'' 
   We are not going to do it at all. In fact, with this budget, we will probably end up cutting it before it is all over. 
   Mr. President, here is where we can be a player. We can have Ed-Flex. I think it is a big step backward. I have explained why. I don't know why colleagues are not willing to make this standard. We shouldn't allow a State to allow a school district to waive it. 
   There is a real danger here. We are taking away some protection for poor children. We are doing that. That is not a step forward. 
   Frankly, if we want to be a player, when you talk to your people back in your States, especially when you are talking to the people who are involved in public education, they say you can be a player in prekindergarten. You, the Federal Government, could, out of your huge Government budget, be allocating some resources back to our communities for affordable child care, to fully fund Head Start. You could make a huge difference so that children come to kindergarten ready to learn and do better. We are not going to do it. We are going to pass something called Ed-Flex and pretend like this is some great step forward. 
   This applies perhaps more to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle than my colleague from Oregon, who is constantly committed to more funding. He has a strong commitment to more funding for these programs. 
   I want to be real clear about what we are doing and not doing today. I don't want us to get away with a piece of legislation that we pass that is heralded as some great step forward when we don't really do what we should be doing. 
   Mr. President, we talk about law enforcement. Talk to the community people, and they tell you everywhere that there are too many kids who come from families where both parents are working, or where a single parent is working. There are no after-school programs with positive things for them to do. There are not the community programs, the community-based programs. I hear it everywhere. 
   In this budget, which is going to lead to these appropriations bills, are we going to make any kind of major investment of resources so we are going to have some of these afterschool programs, some of this afterschool care for kids for children? No. Are there first and second and third graders who go home and there is no one there after school, sometimes in very dangerous neighborhoods? Yes, there are. I have met with them. Are there kids who go home and don't play outside even when it is a beautiful day because their parents tell them, ``Go home, lock the door, don't take any phone calls?'' Yes. Are we doing anything in the Senate about making any kind of investment of resources? Is the majority party doing that? No. 
   There was a woman named Fannie Lou Hamer. I wished I could have met her. She was a great civil rights activist from Mississippi. Fannie Lou Hamer said once, ``I am so sick and tired of being sick and tired.'' I am sick and tired of photo opportunity politics. I am sick and tired of the breed of political person who wants to have their picture taken next to children, and how we all say we are for education. We all say we are for children. I look at the White House budget. They are pathetic. 
   I look at our budget; the majority party's is even worse. I, frankly, see very little commitment to making sure that we have equal opportunity for every child in America. 
   This Ed-Flex bill doesn't do one thing to provide equal opportunity for every child in America. Worse, and let me repeat it, we could have had all the flexibility in the world, but for some reason when it came to the basic core protections and core requirements of the title I program--making sure there are highly qualified instructional staff, making sure kids are held to high standards, making sure we help the kids who are falling behind--my colleagues on the other side of the aisle didn't want to have this basic core requirement. Without that core requirement, we don't have that core protection. 
   I will finish my remarks in both a positive way and in a not-so-positive way. I want to again say to the title I teachers and the title I education people in Minnesota--I spent more time with them--I deeply appreciate the work being done and I do not want a misinterpretation of my vote against this bill as not being in support of your work. 
   Let me read some wonderful testimonials from students, parents and teachers at the Garfield Elementary School in Brainerd, MN.  
   I love reading really much. When I grow up I'm gonna be a teacher. When I'm a teacher, I'm gonna read a lot of books to my children. When in college, I'm gonna read tons of books and books. Right now I'm in second grade. 
   This class has helped me with reading and writing. I like this class because it's fun and I'm 10 going on 11.  
   Some of the spelling is not perfect but the sentiment is wonderful.  
   Reading and writing help you get a job. Make that a good job. My favorite thing that we've done is when we're drawing a picture and characters from our book. I like the 5 minute word tests. My highest score was 28 and I'm smart.  
   I love it when children believe they are something. That is good. That is the way it should be. 
   Here is a statement from an educational assistant at Garfield School:  
   To whom it may concern: Every fall at the start of the new school year I get my list of title I children that need a little extra help in the classroom. I know I can help them. Every spring when the school year ends, I know I have helped these children. I know title I works when the light bulb goes on after that child gets that math problem we have been working on. I know that title I works when that child is reading and understands what he reads. They can write a story that makes sense. 
   Please keep the money for title I just for title I. Title I money pays for my job, but it is also something very dear to my heart. When I see a child get it, I know it works.  
   Mr. President, all over the United States of America there are schools with 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 percent low-income children that don't get any title I money because we have so severely underfunded this program. This legislation does not increase one dime, and we are not going to increase one dime for title I--not given this budget that we have. 
   In addition, when it comes to how we as a nation can renew and live up to our vow that there will be equal opportunity for every child in America, it is not here in this legislation. It is not here to make sure that the children come to kindergarten 
   ready to learn. It is not hear to rebuild crumbling schools. It is not here for smaller class sizes. It is not here to make sure we have better teachers. It is not here to make sure that we do better on after school programs. It is not here to make sure there is affordable housing. It is not here for child nutrition programs. It is not here at all. And I want to say on the floor of the Senate, I don't believe it will be here in this Senate. I don't think the majority party will move on this agenda. Sometimes I worry a little bit about my party, as well. 
   I will be the only vote against this legislation. If I am wrong, I am sure my colleagues--Senator WYDEN and Senator JEFFORDS, both good Senators, real good Senators--will tell me a few years from now, You were mistaken. By not keeping that language in on the core requirement--that is what I am focused on. We didn't create any loophole. We didn't take a step backwards. This legislation didn't fail poor children. 
   If they can tell me I'm wrong, I will be glad to be wrong. Today I shall vote no. Today I shall wonder why more colleagues aren't voting no. Today I sound the alarm that I believe this piece of legislation is profoundly mistaken. 
   That is my honest view. I am sorry to be so critical of my colleagues' proposal because I respect their work, but I cannot support this legislation. 
   How much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Emilia  Beskind be allowed floor privileges during the duration of the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I reserve the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased to yield 10 minutes to my colleague. 
   I have to meet with students from Minnesota. I will try to get a chance to respond, but I may have to respond at a later point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I appreciate the comments of my colleague from Oregon. I just wanted for the record on this debate on examples--before, my colleague, Senator KENNEDY, was speaking about past abuses, abuses of title I money. As to what has happened with those States, part of the Ed-Flex States, he was talking just about the abuse of title I money in the past, not talking about abuse of Ed-Flex States. 
   What we are talking about now is, we do not know. When we look at what GAO has said, the results are inconclusive one way or the other, and for that reason we should have waited and done this during the Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization. I will quote from the GAO report:  
   While some States have put in specific goals (such as improving student achievement in math and science) and established clear and measurable objectives for evaluating the impact of waivers (such as improving average test scores by a certain number of points) many Ed-Flex states have not established any goals or have defined only vague objectives.  
   That is only one example. I can go on. This is a rather longer quote in this report as well. 
   Actually I think Senator WYDEN is probably the wrong Senator for me to be having this debate with. The point is, No. 1, GAO expresses some concern about what could happen. The results are not conclusive one way or the other. But more important, why not--you voted for the amendment. I would have voted for this bill if we had just erred on the side of these children. Why not keep in that core provision? If we do not have to worry about States abusing this, if we do not have to worry about States not having this commitment to children, then surely this language which talked about making sure they are good teachers, making sure kids are held to high standards, making sure if they are not, we are going to give them the instruction they need--why would any school district want to waive that? Why would we not have kept that? 
   I would be willing to say that Arkansas and Minnesota and Oregon and Vermont and the State of Washington school districts would say, ``Keep it in, that is what we are about.'' Why was it taken out? And why, when I introduced this amendment--this goes to the heart, the core, of the standards of the protection--was this taken out? That is the problem. 
   When we had the vote on this language, you voted for it, Senator WYDEN. I am sure Senator LINCOLN voted for it and Senator MURRAY voted for it. I don't know what Senator JEFFORDS did. But that is my point. 
   So, in all due respect, it is not true that we do not have evidence of some problems. We have plenty from the past. As to the Ed-Flex States, I just read from the GAO report. And then I had an amendment. I say to my colleague over there, Senator JEFFORDS from Vermont, that would have kept in the basic core protection. I do not think it would have been a problem for Vermont or any other State. It should not have been taken out, because just by chance, Senator WYDEN, just by chance, what if someplace, somewhere in the country, some of these kids fell between the cracks? Their parents did not have the most clout and there was some investment of title I money in areas where it did not really make a difference in these kids' lives. It should not have happened. We would not have the protection. 
   Why would we not want to err on the side of these children? Why would we not want to err on the side of core requirements? That is my point. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I actually came to the floor to speak about the crisis in agriculture and what is happening in the Midwest, but I want to respond to some of the comments my colleagues have made, although I will be doing this extemporaneously, and I will be thinking out loud, but I hope I will be thinking deeply. 
   Mr. President, I agree with my colleague from Nebraska, I agree with all my colleagues who have spoken on the floor about the importance of accountability. I remember previously coming to the floor before we took a recess where it looked as if we might be taking military action in Kosovo--it wasn't clear--and saying I thought we needed to have a full debate and I would support that military action. 
   I agree with my colleague about the history and how it will judge us. I saw what Milosevic did in Bosnia. I saw enough misery and refugee camps to last me a lifetime. And I certainly do not want to be in a position to have our country, and other countries, turn their gaze away from the systematic slaughter and massacre and murder of people and driving people out of their country, albeit, unfortunately, I think Milosevic, up to date, has been able to do much of that. 
   Here is where I just want to express a few concerns, although I think probably later on we will have the debate. This debate probably does not start today, but since I am on the floor I do want to raise a few concerns. 
   First of all, in the here and now, I think--and I will get a chance this afternoon to put some questions to Secretary Albright--as long as we are talking about stopping the slaughter and given the headlines and the stories in today's papers of Milosevic stopping people from being able to leave the country, we do need to think about these internally displaced refugees and how we can get some relief to them. 
   I still, in my own mind, do not quite understand why we are not doing airlifting, why we are not getting supplies to them. I think it is a difficult question, it could be loss of life. But, again, I say to my colleagues, I want to press very hard on the question of whether or not we should be airlifting some humanitarian relief to people who are obviously going to starve to death otherwise. I am trying to understand why we are not doing that now. 
   Secondly, in the prosecution of this war, I voted that we conduct the airstrikes. I was hoping we would be able to do much more by way of stopping this slaughter, but I raise the question of why we are not conducting more of the airstrikes in Kosovo. I say this to my colleagues on the floor. I really believe that. And I worry about this. I have to say it on the floor of the Senate. Pretty soon we run out of targets in Serbia. And to the extent that we run out of targets and continue with an expanded air war, there are going to be innocent people who will die, which is very difficult for me. 
   I think we get to a point where we don't want to undercut the moral claim of what we are doing. I believe we are trying to do the right thing, but I do not understand why we are not prosecuting more of this air war and more of these airstrikes in Kosovo. We are talking about what we need to do now. I do not understand all of the decisionmaking, but I guess in my own mind, I want to press on that question, because it seems to me there is a direct correlation between our being able to do that and whether or not other means will be necessary, as I look at this resolution, and, moreover, whether it doesn't make far more sense to do that. Again, I know there are risks involved, but at the same time I worry about the sort of airstrikes focused on Belgrade and other cities as opposed to Kosovo. 
   Finally, I say today that I would prefer to hear more discussion. My colleague from Nebraska--you don't know people well, but you just have a feeling about them--is somebody I really like and respect. That is just all there is to it, period. Everything he says I take as being said in the very best of good faith, very much a part of good faith, with complete sincerity and conviction and knowledge. 
   I would like to hear in this Chamber more discussion about diplomacy, about where it fits in. I think it is far more important than has been discussed today that we really ask the Russians to be a part of a diplomatic solution. I know we are talking to them about being part, eventually, of some kind of peacekeeping force. I think, by the way, it will not just be a NATO force. I heard my colleagues list that as an objective. I do not think that is going to happen. I don't think it will be a NATO force; I think it will be a very different peacekeeping force. 
   More than just asking the Russians what they will be a part of, I believe the Russians are in a key position to help forge a diplomatic solution as an alternative to an ever expanding war, consistent with what I believe should be our objectives which are stopping this slaughter of people and people having a chance to go back to their country. I want to see the emphasis on the military action we are taking but also on the diplomatic front. I do not hear that today and it concerns me. 
   I say to my colleagues that when I see language which talks about ``to use all necessary force and other means,'' it just sounds too broad and too open-ended to me, as a Senator. I am skeptical of such language. There are many answers to many questions that I will pose in debate and discussion. There are many questions I have about this today. I have expressed some of my reservations about this resolution, and I do believe we should have Senator HAGEL in the discussion and the debate that is called for. I think it is important. Otherwise, I think we do abdicate our responsibility, whatever decisions we arrive at. I commend the Senator for it, but I have expressed some of my reservations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Angad Bhalla, who is an intern in my office, be granted the privilege of the floor today during debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, we had a gathering in the State of Minnesota on Sunday afternoon. It started about 1 p.m. Joel Klein, who heads the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department, was gracious enough to come. Mike Dunn, who is Assistant Secretary for Agriculture, was gracious enough to come. This will just be 5 minutes' worth, because I am going to be calling on colleagues, especially  from the Midwest and the West, to start coming to the floor every day and talking about what is happening to farmers and what is happening in agriculture. We have to speak out, and we have to turn the pressure up for action. 
   During spring planting season, Sunday afternoon--I think the Chair knows this as well as I do--to have somewhere around 800 farmers come was unbelievable. It was an unbelievable turnout of farmers. And there is a very clear reason why. Many of them from Minnesota, but a huge delegation from Missouri, South Dakota, North Dakota, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Colorado, these farmers came because they are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. They came because time is not neutral for them, time rushes on, and they can work 20 hours a day--and they do--and they can be the best managers in the world, and they cannot survive. 
   There was a focus to this gathering, and it was basically about the whole problem of conglomerates having muscled their way to the dinner table to the point where there isn't the kind of competition we need. There was a call for antitrust action. What farmers were saying was: These conglomerates have muscled their way to the dinner table and they have exercised their raw economic and political power over us as producers and over 
   consumers and over taxpayers. You have our grain farmers going under, record low prices. Then a headline in the Star Tribune on Saturday: ``Cargill profits from decline in farm prices, 53 percent jump in earnings expected''--how hog farmers are going under and yet the packers are in hog heaven. Everywhere the farmers look, they have a few large firms, whether it be dairy, whether it be livestock producers, whether it be grain farmers, a few large firms that dominate well over 50 percent of the market. What the farmers were calling for was strong antitrust action. 
   Joel Klein was honest. He said: I wouldn't be here if I didn't take this seriously, and you will have to judge me by my deeds. I so appreciated his coming out. There was a lot of pressure on Mike Dunn and USDA and Secretary Glickman to do more by way of antitrust action. 
   It was much appreciated. But I say, Mr. President, that the farmers, with considerable justification, want to put some free enterprise back into the food industry. Farmers, with considerable justification, see a direct correlation between monopoly power and a few large, giant firms that are making record profits while they go under. They want to see antitrust action. All they are asking for is a competitive market. By golly, government ought to be on their side. We ought to be seeing stronger antitrust action. 
   The other thing I have to say--we have one bill, S. 19, on which Senator DASCHLE is taking the lead, which talks about full public disclosure of pricing, which is so important to livestock producers--we ought to know what these packers are paying our livestock producers; we ought to have public disclosure on pricing. 
   In addition, we ought to deal with the monopoly power and have some antitrust action taken so farmers have a chance to compete. 
   I have to say to colleagues, yes, it is crop insurance reform that we are talking about. But the other thing we are going to have to do is revisit this Freedom to Farm, which I have always called the ``freedom to fail'' bill. I don't even want to point the finger. We can talk about what works with Freedom to Farm, but it seems to me that here the evidence is crystal clear that one thing has happened for sure--there is absolutely no stability anymore when it comes to farm income. And while the large conglomerates with huge amounts of capital can weather these mad fluctuations in price, our family farmers can't. They aren't getting anywhere near the cost of production. We have to focus on how we can get the price up and have some farm income for family farmers, and how we can take on some of these conglomerates so family farmers have a fair shake by way of getting a decent price. 
   As a Senator from the Midwest where we still have a family farm structure in agriculture that we are trying to hold on to, it is so important for our rural communities, so important for family farmers, so important for safe, affordable food for consumers, so important for the environment. This is a historic struggle. 
   I hope Senators from the farm states will be coming to the floor every day to speak out about this until we have some strong action that will be on behalf of family farmers. They need the support. They deserve the support. And the Senate and the Congress ought to be taking action. 
   I yield the floor. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank you. 
   I think what I will do is pick up on the comments of my colleague from Washington because otherwise you just come to the floor and you have something that is well rehearsed; and it is better, I think, to respond to what other Senators have said. That makes for more of a debate, though I find it frustrating to speak on the floor of the Senate because it is sometimes hard to engage in debate. 
   On the question of spending money more wisely, the tax cuts that my colleague talks about, he mentioned the first 5 years, $143 billion over 5 years. It will be $778 billion over 10 years. It is backloaded. It is really not what I would actually call fiscally responsible or very conservative. 
   The theory is to get the money back to the people. ``You can spend it more wisely.'' Here is my question. I do not know about Illinois, but in the State of Minnesota, only 35 percent of senior citizens, 35 percent of Medicare recipients--there are probably close to 700,000 Medicare recipients in our State--have any prescription drug benefit coverage at all, only 35 percent. 
   It is not uncommon to talk to an elderly woman or a couple and find that they are spending up to 30, 40 percent of their monthly budget just on prescription drugs. They cannot afford it. So we have a budget resolution here that says to the senior citizens in Minnesota, ``Spend your money more wisely. If you can't afford prescription drug costs, spend your money more wisely.'' There is a disconnect here. This is why this Republican budget resolution is going to be in big-time trouble with people in this country. It does not make any sense to people. 
   To senior citizens in Minnesota, this budget resolution says, ``When it comes to prescription drug costs that put you under, spend your money more wisely.'' When it comes to family farmers who have been buffeted about, and many of them destroyed by the ``freedom to fail'' bill--a great bill for multinational corporations, a terrible bill for family farmers--when we come to the floor and say we have to get farm income up, we have to take the cap off the loan rate, and then it gets scored by CBO, we are told we cannot afford to do it. The Republican response to the family farmers in Minnesota who are going under is, ``Spend your money more wisely, because we're going to give you a tax cut that will enable you to spend your money more wisely,'' while people go under. 
   Mr. President, I meet families in Minnesota and families all across the country when I get a chance to travel. And one of their top issues, one of the most important issues they have, is affordable child care. It is a huge issue, not just for low-income, not just working-income; I am talking middle-income families. He is 30; she is 28; they have two children. It costs them $12,000, $13,000 a year for child care--not to mention the fact that way too high a percentage of these child-care centers really are not that great. Some of them are downright dangerous. The care is not necessarily developmental child care, and the people who work there are severely underpaid. 
   So what are we saying to working families in our country, in Minnesota, in New Jersey, or in Illinois, who can't afford child care? We are saying, ``Spend your money more wisely.'' I have news for you: For a typical family, a young couple making $35,000 a year, with $12,000 child care expenses, this does not 
   work. 
   What about for the children? What about for the children? I am glad to hear of my colleague's concern for Social Security. And I am glad to hear that the Democrats are also focused on Medicare, unlike my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. But in all due respect, it is our children who are going to be in the next century. The next millennium is going to belong to our children. And we have close to one out of every four children under the age of 3 growing up poor in our country, and one out of two children of color under the age of 3 growing up poor in our country today; and because of this budget resolution, with all of these tax cuts and all of these caps, we are going to see a lot of these domestic programs taking a hit of about $43 billion. 
   So what are we saying? We are going to cut Head Start? We are going to cut child nutrition programs? We are going to cut the Women, Infants, and Children Program? Where are we going to cut? I do not understand the distorted priorities of this budget resolution. There is an old Yiddish proverb that says: ``You can't dance at two weddings at the same time.'' You can't have all of these backloaded tax cuts, the vast majority of which are going to flow to people with very high incomes--that has always been the record of my Republican colleagues--and make your investment in the Pentagon, and do what you say you are going to do for Social Security, and at the same time make any investment in the health and skills and intellect and character of children. We are going to cut programs for children. 
   By the way, as to ``Spend your money wisely,'' do not tell some child who is poor--the poverty being involuntary--that he or she should spend their money more wisely. They do not have any money to spend wisely. I doubt whether we are going to cut the National Institutes of Health budget, but we are certainly not going to increase it. 
   So to my colleague, who is no longer on the floor, talking about ``Spend your money wisely,'' you say to people who are struggling with Alzheimer's or breast cancer or Parkinson's disease or diabetes--and I can list many other illnesses as well--all sorts of people come to Washington, and they try to get more money spent for research for the cure to these diseases, to the point where we have one group of people struggling with an illness pitted against another group of people struggling with an illness. It is just horrible. And we are saying to these people, we are going to have these backloaded tax cuts over the next 10 years--``Spend your money more wisely.'' 
   In all due respect, I think, even though the Chair of the Budget Committee is one of the Senators whom I have the most respect for--he is really kind of my working partner when it comes to the mental health work--this budget resolution and the priorities of this budget resolution are not consistent with what I would call the sort of basic core values of the American people, of people in this country, of people in Minnesota. 
   People want to see some investment in children. They do not want to see Head Start cut. They do not want to see WIC cut. They do not want to see backloaded tax cuts over the next 10 years, most of it going to high-income, wealthy people. And people get it; they know that we have to be fiscally responsible. They want the deficits gone. They want to see us focus on Social Security to make sure it is solvent. We know we absolutely should be committed to Medicare. And then with what we have, we ought to make the kind of investments that make sense for our Nation. 
   Where do we want to be in the year 2050? If you want to have a solvent Social Security system, then you want to have the children who are small today as adults who are independent, productive, highly trained, morally caring men and women. And you are not going to get there if you are going to leave one-fourth of the children of America behind. 
   Where is the investment in these children? Where is the investment in these families? Where do we want to be in the year 2050? On every single issue I can think of, Social Security, Medicare, our country doing well in the international economy, economic performance, economic growth, reducing crime, reducing violence, you would want to make sure that we do our very best by all of our children in the United States of America. And you know what? This budget resolution fails that test, and therefore I will vote against it.  
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator SPECTER, who will be coming back here--I promised him I would do this for him--be allowed to speak for up to 15 minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this is an inquiry. I gather my colleagues are on the floor, the Senator from Missouri and others, to speak on the budget; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will wait to get some time in morning business to introduce a bill with Senator DOMENICI. Why don't we go on with the process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today I rise to introduce the Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act of 1999, a bit that will ensure that private health insurance companies provide the same level of coverage for mental illness as they do for other diseases. This bill will be a major step toward ending the discrimination against people who suffer from mental illness. 
   For too long, mental illness has been stigmatized, or viewed as a character flaw, rather than as the serious disease that it is. A cloak of secrecy has surrounded this disease, and people with mental illness are often ashamed and afraid to seek treatment, for fear that they will be seen as admitting a weakness in character. We have all seen portrayals of mentally ill people as somehow different, as dangerous, or as frightening. Such stereotypes only reinforce the biases against people with mental illness. Can you imagine this type of portrayal of someone who has a cardiac problem, or who happens to carry a gene that predisposes them to diabetes? 
   Although mental health research has well-established the biological, genetic, and behavioral components of many of the forms of serious mental illness, the illness is still stigmatized as somehow less important or serious than other illnesses. Too often, we try to push the problem away, deny coverage, or blame those with the illness for having the illness. We forget that someone with mental illness can look just like the person we see in the mirror, or the person who is sitting next to us on a plane. It can be our mother, or brother, or son, or daughter. It can be one of us. We have all known someone with a serious mental illness, within our families or our circle of friends, or in public life. Many people have courageously come forward to speak about their personal experiences with their illness, to help us all understand better the effects of this illness on a person's life, and I commend them for their courage. 
   The statistics concerning mental illness, and the state of health care coverage for adults and children with this disease are startling, and disturbing. 
   One severe mental illness affecting millions of Americans is major depression. The National Institute of Mental Health, a NIH research institute, within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, describes serious depression as a critical public health problem. More than 18 million people in the United States will suffer from a depressive illness this year, and many will be unnecessarily incapacitated for weeks or months, because their illness goes untreated. The cost to the Nation in 1990 was estimated to be between $30-$44 billion. The suffering of depressed people and their families is immeasurable. 
   Depressive disorders are not the normal ups and downs everyone experiences. They are illnesses that affect mood, body, behavior, and mind. Depressive disorders interfere with individual and family functioning. Without treatment, the person with a depressive disorder is often unable to fulfill the responsibilities of spouse or parent, worker or employer, friend or neighbor. 
   Available medications and psychological treatments, alone or in combination, can help 80 percent of those with depression. But without adequate treatment, future episodes of depression may continue or worsen in severity. Yet, the steady decline in the quality and breadth of health care coverage is truly disturbing. 
   The results of a major survey of employer-provided health plans was published in 1998 by the Hay Group, an independent benefits consulting firm. The Hay Report showed a major decline in benefits in the last decade: 
   Employer-provided mental health benefits decreased 54%--while benefits for general health decreased only 7%; 
   Even before this erosion occurred, mental health benefits made up only 6% of total medical benefits paid by employers. Today--that has been cut in half--it is down to 3%; 
   The number of plans restricting hospitalization for mental disorders increased by 20%; 
   Descriptions of benefit limits themselves are misleading. Although plans may say that they allow 30 days for hospitalization, this is rarely approved. In 1996, the average length of stay was 8 1/2 days, down from 17 in 1991. 
   In 1988, most insurance plans allowed 50 therapy sessions per years. In 1997, the average number was 20. 
   A 1998 study published by Health Affairs found that between 1991 and 1995, HMO enrollees were twice as likely to encounter limits on psychiatric visits, and about three times as likely to have separate, and higher, copayments than for general medical health care. 
   No one, of course, expects coverage of any illness to cost nothing. But what we do know is that fears of spiraling costs for mental health treatment are unfounded. Studies from HHS that have examined the effects of mental health and substance abuse treatment parity have shown that full parity for these benefits would be just slightly higher than current premiums. Most reports, like the one requested by Congress from the National Advisory Mental Health Counsel, showed that when mental health coverage is managed, either moderately or tightly, that premium increases can be as low as 1%. 
   These costs are so low. And the cost of NOT treating is so high--especially when one looks at the toll that untreated mental illness takes on individuals, families, employers, corporations, social service systems, and criminal justice systems. I have seen first hand in the juvenile corrections system what happens when mental illness is criminalized, when youth with mental illness are incarcerated for exhibiting symptoms of their illness. To treat ill people as criminals is outrageous is outrageous and immoral. We must make treatment for this illness as available and as routine as treatment for any other disease. The discrimination must stop. 
   Our bill includes parity for hospital day and outpatient visits for all mental illnesses. Additionally, for many of the most severe adult and child mental illnesses, the bill establishes full parity, i.e., parity for copayments, deductibles, hospital day, and outpatient visit benefits. The bill also provides protection for non-physician providers, and for states with stronger parity bills; it also includes a small business exemption, and eliminates the sunset provision and the 1% exemption from the 1996 Mental Health Parity Act. Covered services include inpatient treatment; non-hospital residential treatment; outpatient treatment, including screening and assessment, medication management, individual, group and family counseling; and prevention services, including health education and individual and group counseling to encourage the reduction of risk factors for mental illness. 
   The Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act of 1999 provides for major improvements in coverage for mental illness by private health insurers. It does not require that mental health benefits be part of a health benefits package, but establishes a requirement for parity in coverage for those plans that offer mental health benefits. This bill goes a long way toward our bipartisan goal: that mental illness be treated like any other disease in health care coverage. 
   Mr. President, the Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act of 1999 is designed to take a large step toward ending the suffering of those with mental illness who have been unfairly discriminated against in their health coverage. We must end this discrimination. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, can we have order? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Could I have 5 minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from North Dakota. Let me first say that sometimes what happens is, you find out about an amendment and you don't have time to really prepare. I have just a couple of observations, nothing really well rehearsed or well prepared about this amendment. 
   Let me just say to my good friend from Delaware that not only do I think the amendment doesn't give justice to some of the President's proposals, I want to express some very serious reservations about the work of the Commission. It is out of respect for my colleague from Louisiana, but it is just honest disagreement. 
   I will say this right away: I have respect for Senators who are willing to stake out a position that they think is the right thing to do. Even if there is lots of opposition, they have the courage to do so. Senator BREAUX is that kind of Senator. 
   For my own part, there are at least two major concerns that I have and that I think should be laid out in this Senate discussion. One is I really do worry a lot about the effort to, if you will, voucherize Medicare. It worries me that we will create a system where those people who are wealthier and probably healthier can opt out for additional kind of coverage, additional plans and, therefore, I think you get  into the problem of adverse risk selection. I think the very thing that has made Medicare such a stirring success for our country, which is sort of we are all in this together, we all pay into it, I think we do serious damage to that principle. I worry that the Medicare system will end up being a system where really what you had left were those that were the frailest and the sickest of our elderly, and we could not sustain it economically. I think that does serious damage to the universality principle of Medicare. 
   The second point I want to make is that I think the 
   reliance on managed care is profoundly mistaken. I think the record of managed care in rural American is a not a good one. I think the reason we are going to have a major debate on patients' protection, I say to my colleague from Massachusetts, is that many people feel that what has happened is that with the eight or nine largest insurance companies owning and controlling well over 60 percent of the managed care plans, what you have going on in the country is bottom line medicine, where the bottom line is the only line. It has become increasingly corporatized and bureacratized and not at all user-friendly. 
   I think senior citizens will not do well with a system that relies so much on managed care. 
   Finally, I want to express my major opposition--and before Senators vote on this, I think they should think about this question--to extending the age from 65 to 67. With all due respect, I don't think we should create yet another group of people who have no health insurance coverage or another group of citizens, in this particular case, 65 to 67, who maybe will purchase the coverage, but they won't be able to afford it. 
   I think that it is a grave mistake to support this amendment that my colleague from Delaware has brought to the floor. Frankly, I think we should be talking about Medicare for all--universal coverage. I certainly think we should be talking about expanding Medicare to include prescription drug coverage for senior citizens. I have introduced a bill with BARNEY FRANK on the House side to do this, and other colleagues have done this. I think, out of respect for my colleague, it is an honest difference of opinion. 
   I think this amendment, supporting the work of the Commission, goes in the wrong direction. A, it voucherizes Medicare; leads to adverse risk selection; no longer has the principle of universality applying; those people who are sickest and poorest will be left in, and the system will not sustain itself. That is a mistake. B, the reliance on managed care is mistaken. C, in no way, shape, or form, should we extend the age from 65 to 67. 
   I yield to my colleague from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Would my colleague yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Right here:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. People can disagree, but then a vote for this would be an endorsement of any number of the different recommendations. That might be good for some, but I want to make it clear to colleagues, if you move the Medicare age up from 65 to 67, you go forward with the notion of ``voucherizing'' Medicare, which is very different from Medicare today. To me, this is an up-or-down vote on these recommendations. I could not possibly  vote for this right now. I hope other Senators will seriously consider that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask my colleague from New Mexico--actually, if my colleague wants to respond, I will wait and follow his remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the other question I want to ask my colleagues before I go on the time, I know the Senator from Indiana has been waiting to speak now. Would that happen after this debate? He has been waiting patiently. I don't want to precede him, but I wish to know what your plan is. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is not my question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My question was, before I get started, I know the Senator from Indiana has been waiting patiently to speak, I think the first time he has had a chance to speak in the Chamber. I wonder if the Senator wants to wait until after this debate and then he can proceed? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is fine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me thank Senator BAYH for his words. It is an honor to be on the floor while you are speaking, and I thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be glad to, as long as I retain the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I think this amendment that Senator KENNEDY has brought to the floor is a major, what I would call, political economy amendment. It is a major values amendment. This amendment goes to the heart of what we are about as a nation, and we have a couple of choices. Either we can go with this budget resolution, which goes in the direction of massive tax cuts for the years to come disproportionately going to the highest-income citizens, with the Medicare trust fund expiring in the year 2008. Or we can take part of this surplus and use that to strengthen the Medicare program that we have in this country. 
   If we do not do that--I just want to be really clear, and I know I am right about this, even though I do not want to be right--what we are going to see is either a cut in benefits or we will see the age extended for eligibility for Medicare, or we will see other proposals which will do major damage to the idea of this program as being a universal, comprehensive health care coverage program for senior citizens, albeit in my State of Minnesota only 35 percent of senior citizens have any coverage at all for prescription drug benefits. 
   We need to expand Medicare, another reason to support the Kennedy amendment and albeit Medicare does not do anything to cover catastrophic expenses, which is a nightmare for people toward the end of their lives if they should have to be in a nursing home or if they look for support from home-based health care. 
   But I would like to say to colleagues, as far as I am concerned in this budget debate, this amendment is the heart-and-soul amendment. We have a really clear choice. A budget resolution is a resolution; it gives us some general direction. My colleague from New Mexico undoubtedly will have a response. I wish I had time to respond to his response. But from my point of view, this is a values debate. We can, with the surplus, as we look ahead, talk about tax cuts mainly going to those who are most affluent, or we can say we are going to reserve part of this surplus to bolster Medicare, which is a critically important program, not just for about 680,000 seniors in Minnesota with an income profile pretty low, not very high, but, in addition, for their children and their grandchildren. 
   This is a family values amendment. There ought to be nothing more important for us to do than to give general direction to the proposition and to the idea and to the core value that we are going to reserve part of this surplus to help bolster Medicare. 
   I can make a lot of other proposals. Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Let me just say to my colleagues, I would like to see also, above and beyond support for this amendment, talk about how we can strengthen Medicare in other areas. 
   We should double the NIH budget. My colleagues, Senator SPECTER and Senator HARKIN, are right, because the research and finding the cure for some of the diseases in our country like Alzheimer's and diabetes and Parkinson's will do wonders toward reducing Medicare expenditures. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will get a chance to speak more on this. This is the critical vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, can we have order? We cannot hear. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, before I start, I ask unanimous consent that Jodi Niehoff, who works in my office, be granted the privilege of the floor during the duration of this debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I make this appeal to my colleagues as a Senator from Minnesota: First of all, please get this disaster relief bill through, at least get the agricultural part of it through. 
   If we don't get that, our FSA offices run out of loan money. They will have to let people go, and we will not be able to provide people with the loan money that they need and they are going to go under. Please make that happen. We should not go home without that happening. 
   Second of all, I rise to support this amendment. Time is not neutral. It rushes on. It is not on the side of family farmers in our States. I have never seen it this bad in all the years we have lived in Minnesota. People are in real economic pain. 
   It was the wheat farmers in the northwest. Now it is the other grain farmers. It is the dairy farmers in southern Minnesota. The hog producers are facing extinction while the packers are in hog heaven. We have to get the price up. We 
   have to get farm income up. 
   I think this amendment, which speaks to taking the cap off the loan rate, is the right thing to do. Price, price, price. Get farm income up and get it up now. 
   This is a critically important crisis amendment. If Senators are on the side of family farmers and a family farm structure of agriculture, which is good for farmers and rural America and consumers, they will vote for this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I thank my colleague, Senator JOHNSON from South Dakota. We have been working pretty closely with the veterans community and, in particular, from the time they came out with their independent budget. I have read that very carefully and I think this work by Veterans of Foreign Wars, DAV, PVA, and AmVets is a very important document. I might also add that many other organizations all around the country have added their strong support to this independent budget. 
   In addition to talking about the independent budget, let me discuss what the veterans community has said based upon their own very careful assessment of this. We start off with the President's flatline budget which is woefully inadequate. Let me say right away as a Democrat, I think the budget is woefully inadequate, and certainly the President's budget was no way to say thanks to veterans. 
   The Budget Committee has called for an increase of $1 billion, but that still leaves a $2 billion shortfall. I want to also quote from a letter from the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs to the Senate Budget Committee which pointed out that the VA is facing $3 billion in costs above and beyond what was proposed in the President's budget. That would make it $2 billion right now given the $1 billion increase we have in the budget resolution. 
   I will quote the precise figures from the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee:  
   *.*.* an additional $1.26 billion to meet unanticipated spending requirements; an additional $853.1 million to overcome the effects of inflation and other ``uncontrollables'' in order that it may contain current services; and at least $1 billion in additional funding to better address the needs of aging, and increasingly female, veterans population.  
   In other words, our own Senate Veterans' Committee, under the able leadership of Senator SPECTER and Senator ROCKEFELLER, has basically echoed the same analysis of the independent budget. This is specific and it bears out what I have heard from veterans at rallies. The veterans community is very galvanized on this question. I have heard stories or received letters from veterans at our office--I am sure Senator JOHNSON 
   gets the same kind of letters from the veterans community. 
   The budget resolution goes a third of the way toward covering this cost. We need to go all the way for the veterans community. We don't ask our troops to take a third of a hill, we don't ask them to win a third of a battle, and in this particular budget we ought not to go just a third of the way toward providing the resources so that we can get good medical care to veterans in this country. 
   Both in the President's proposal and in the budget resolution that we have before the Senate, the veterans are not a top priority. There is no doubt whatever that we should be doing much better. This amendment that we introduce tonight does the job. 
   Let me put this in personal terms for a moment. I don't want to see a good friend, Lyle Pearson from North Mankato--a decorated World War II vet, past commander of the national Disabled American Veterans--I don't want to see him in a position where he doesn't receive the kind of decent health care coverage that he deserves. I don't want to see an ever aging veterans population not receiving the kind of assisted care they will need. Many of our veterans are elderly. 
   The question is, How will we respond to that? I don't want to see a third of the homeless population continue to be veterans, many of them struggling with substance abuse problems, many of them struggling with posttraumatic syndrome, many of them Vietnam vets. I think we can do better. I don't want  to see the kind of backlog we have right now. 
   Let me just simply talk about veterans in Bangor, ME, who were concerned after a VA inspector general report noted their outpatient clinic had a 10-month backlog of new patients. Things were so bad last fall that the clinic couldn't see walk-in patients or urgent-care patients and there was a 4-month wait to see the clinic's part-time psychiatrist. 
   Veterans in Iowa are facing the possible closure of one of three major veterans hospitals because of the budget shortfalls. The Veterans Under Secretary of Health, Kenneth Kizer, warned that the VA health care system is in a ``precarious situation.'' Under Secretary of Health for the Veterans' Administration, Ken Kizer, went on to say that the proposed fiscal year 2000 budget--and he was talking about the President's budget--posed very serious financial challenges and that it would require a number of different things that might happen if, in fact, we don't provide adequate funding. Among them:  
   ..... mandatory employee furloughs, severe curtailment of services or elimination of programs and possible unnecessary facility closures.  
   Let me be really clear about the amendment we have introduced. The veterans community was asked by the Congress--they are always asked--to give their positive proposal about what we need to do to have a budget that will serve their needs so that we can live up to our commitment to veterans. We have the independent budget. It was done well. We have a Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee which came out with its own report that said we have a $3 billion shortfall here between what the veterans community needs by way of a real investment in health care and veteran services and other services, versus the President's budget proposal. The President's budget proposal was unacceptable. 
   Now the Budget Committee brings a resolution before the floor and adds an additional $1 billion, but we are still $2 billion short. We ought not to go just a third of the way. We ought not to make estimates that make it clear that if we are really serious about our commitment to veterans, we are going to make up this $3 billion debt. We ought not say that and then not reflect that in our budget resolution. 
   My colleague, Senator JOHNSON, has done an excellent job of summarizing the offset, and I do not need to repeat it. I conclude this way: I have never, in my 8 years in the Senate, seen the veterans community so galvanized and so focused on any question. There is a tremendous amount of anger. People are smart. Four years of flatline budgets have not served the veterans community well. This budget by the President and what we have in the Budget Committee resolution does not go far enough. It doesn't do the job. It does not enable us to live up to our commitment to veterans. I feel very strongly about this. 
   This amendment we have introduced tonight provides the funding that will make sure we have the health care and decent services. It lives up to the very words that all of us have spoken as Senators. If we are serious about our commitment to veterans, then we have an opportunity to show that commitment and to vote for this resolution that Senator JOHNSON and I and other Senators have introduced. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object, Mr. President. What is the request? Is it that we lay aside our amendment so our colleague could offer an amendment on NIH? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. No objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, what is meaningful about this amendment is it provides the necessary funding for decent health care for veterans. And the veterans community will hold all of us accountable. This is a very meaningful vote, I say to my colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999, a bill that calls for a full prescription drug benefit for all of America's senior citizens within the Medicare program. 
   This bill is the Senate companion to H.R. 886, which was introduced by Congressman BARNEY FRANK of Massachusetts earlier this month and which already has 22 House cosponsors. 
   One of the beauties of the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999 is its simplicity. The Act does four things. First, it directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to study the establishment of an outpatient prescription drug benefit under Medicare that provides for full coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Second, the Secretary will determine the sufficiency of the estate tax to fund the costs of that outpatient drug benefit. Third, the Secretary must submit a report to Congress within six months that includes a legislative proposal to provide for full coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Finally, the bill transfers Federal estate tax revenues to the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund where those monies will be placed in a separate Outpatient Prescription Drug Account to pay for this coverage. 
   Mr. President, now more than ever, a Medicare prescription drug benefit is needed. When Medicare was first adopted the program was designed to reflect typical private health insurance which often did not include outpatient prescription drugs. Then and since, the pharmaceutical industry has opposed a prescription drug benefit in order to protect its profits without regard to America's senior citizens. Even today, the industry is unwilling to shed some of its profits to allow all senior citizens access to needed prescription drugs. But the time has come for Congress to say ``no'' to the undue influence of drug companies in Washington and ``yes'' to Medicare prescription drug coverage. 
   Why has the need for the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999 because so acute? The reasons are well known. First, the cost of prescription drugs has skyrocketed in recent years. Last year alone, prices increased an estimated 17%. This increase in drug costs hits seniors disproportionately. 
   A 1998 study by the minority staff of the House Government Reform Committee found that older Americans without prescription drug insurance pay on average twice as much as the discounted prices drug companies offer large scale purchasers like HMOs, pharmaceutical benefit managers and government agencies. Even more astounding are comparisons that show the price of some drugs are up to 15 times higher for seniors. Recalcitrance on the part of the pharmaceutical industry and the Congress has not only forced seniors to the pay for drugs out of their own pockets, but the price seniors pay is a national disgrace. 
   The burden on seniors is hard for them to avoid. More than 3/4 of Americans aged 65 and over are taking prescription drugs. The average senior citizen takes more than four prescription drugs daily and fills an average of 18 prescriptions a year. Older Americans take significantly more drugs on average than the under-65 population. One-third of all drugs are prescribed for senior citizens even though seniors account for only 12% of the population. 
   Not only do older Americans spend almost three times as much of their income (21%) on health care as do those under the age of 65 (8%), but prescription drugs are the largest single source  of out-of-pocket expenses for health services paid for by the elderly--more than doctor visits or hospital admissions. The primary reason for this is that Medicare does not cover outpatient prescription drugs. 
   It is totally unacceptable that 37% of seniors, nationally, have no prescription drug coverage and another 15-20% have totally inadequate coverage. In my state of Minnesota, where Medicare HMO drug coverage without additional cost is virtually nonexistent, close to 65% of seniors have no outpatient drug coverage at all. 
   The result of this drug pricing inequity and excessive cost burden frequently leads seniors to discontinue their medications against medical advice, to lower the dose they take to make their prescriptions last longer, or to take their medicines as prescribed but then skimp on food and other necessities. Whichever path is taken results in a decrease in health and an increased likelihood of an expensive hospital intervention. That is why we need the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999. Not to provide this benefit is being penny-wise and pound foolish. 
   Minnesota seniors and others who live in states adjacent to Canada and Mexico often travel hundreds of miles and cross international borders to obtain drugs at prices only available in this country when negotiated by volume purchasers. Mildred Miller, a 78 year old constituent of mine from Minneapolis, found it necessary to travel to Canada and to send a friend to Mexico in order to afford the Tamoxifen her doctor in Minnesota had prescribed. And she is not alone. 
   For some seniors the high price of outpatient prescription drugs has not yet been a burden. They are the lucky ones who are members of Medicare HMOs in counties where the Medicare reimbursement rate to HMOs has been high enough to allow a prescription drug benefit, or are fortunate to be wealthy and healthy enough to be able to purchase one of the three Medigap policies that include a prescription drug benefit, or have drug coverage under health insurance benefits provided by former employers. 
   But for those for whom the high price of drugs has not yet been a burden, the future isn't particularly bright. Medicare HMO reimbursement rates are being reduced and many HMOs have cut back or completely cut out their drug benefit. Medigap policies that cover prescription drugs are expensive, have high $250 deductibles, 50% copays, and caps on benefits of $1250 or $300 per year. Health care benefits offered by former employers are becoming less and less common and less generous. 
   The good alternatives today are out of reach of most senior citizens. For example, in Minnesota, a Medicare-Choice prescription drug coverage option with 20% copay, no deductible, and no cap costs $130 per month. It is no wonder that from Maine to Minnesota to the state of Washington and down to Texas, America's senior citizens are forced to leave the country so they can afford to take the medicines they need. What they find are essentially the same prescription drugs at half of price. With the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999, they won't have to flee their own country. 
   What is needed is a comprehensive prescription drug benefit that includes outpatient drugs--the same sort of prescription drug benefit available to members of Congress--with no cap, reasonable deductibles and reasonable copays. That is what this legislation calls for. 
   An important aspect of the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999 is that it calls for a full prescription drug benefit--not one capped at a certain limit. Medicare today doesn't limit the number of necessary doctor visits or the number of needed operations--and it shouldn't. Prescription drugs now are as critical as those doctor visits or operations and it is unconscionable for necessary drugs not to be covered just as fully. If we limit the maximum benefit, we penalize the sickest and most frail elderly who have the greatest need and require the greatest number of prescription medications. 
   I expect that other Medicare prescription drug bills will be offered in this Congress, but I fear they will not provide the full protection seniors really need. If you have a major life threatening illness or multiple chronic diseases (something that is hard to predict before it happens), your monthly drug bill will quickly exceed the oft cited figure of a $1500 annual maximum. With such coverage, the sickest and most needy seniors will quickly find themselves out of the benefit. As I travel about the state of Minnesota, I frequently hear stories of elderly citizens saddled with prescription drug costs in excess of $300 per month who are trying to make ends meet on a monthly income of $1,000. That is why full drug coverage is so important. 
   What is also important to know is that the cost of providing a full prescription drug benefit is affordable and not that much more than the cost of a limited benefit. In 1998, the Lewin Group estimated that a Medicare prescription drug benefit in 1999 with a $250 deductible, a 20% copay and a $1500 annual cap would cost $13 billion. The same plan with no annual cap, providing full protection, would cost $17 billion. Revenues from the estate tax, which will fund the benefit, are estimated to be in the $19 billion to $23 billion range. That is more than enough to provide full coverage the full benefit. 
   Finally, Mr. President, let me say a few words about why using the estate tax to pay for a Medicare prescription drug benefit makes a lot of sense. Many members of Congress have argued that the estate tax is no longer needed for general revenue. If so, there is a great deal of logic in using it for a prescription drug benefit under Medicare. The estate tax today applies only to individual estates that are worth more than $650,000 and to estates of married couples worth more than $1 million. Over the next seven years the amount exempt from the estate tax will rise to $1 million for individuals and $2 million for couples. Well over 90% of the estate tax comes from wealthy individuals who were 65 or older at the time of their death. Most of these people were receiving medical care and benefiting from Medicare coverage. Thus, this bill recycles back into the Medicare program--for badly needed prescription drug coverage for all--money from people who benefited from their Medicare entitlement but were not in financial need of it. That only makes sense. For it is more important to preserve and expand the Medicare program than it is to provide tax cuts for the richest Americans. 
   Mr. President, it is unconscionable that America's senior citizens have such difficulty obtaining the fruits of the scientific advances made by America's pharmaceutical industry. Every day we delay, millions of senior citizens struggle to determine how they will be able to afford their next prescription refill. The time to end that struggle is now. That is why I am introducing the Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 1999 today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990324</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize Barbara and Harold Harris on the occasion of their 50th wedding anniversary. 
   Barbara Harris has dedicated herself to educating young people in America in the principles of representative government, imparting to them the virtues of citizenship and democracy, developing in them the values of leadership and civic responsibility. 
   She has pursued this dedication throughout her career, first as an educator in public schools where her personal interest and commitment shaped the lives of thousands of students, and subsequently as a co-founder of the Congressional Youth Leadership Council and the National Youth Leadership Forum, bold initiatives to carry her message of achievement and citizenship to tens of thousands of the Nation's best and brightest young adults; This Congress and the Nation are indebted to her for these efforts and for her contribution to enhancing our two centuries old experiment in self-government. Throughout this distinguished career, Barbara has benefited from the dedication, strength, and devotion of her beloved husband Harold. 
   I ask my fellow colleagues to please join me in congratulating Barbara and Harold on this most auspicious occasion.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Reserving the right to object. I am not clear what the request is. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. May I ask the Senator a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
   Could my colleague, for the purposes of the legislative record, spell out the objective? The President is authorized to ``conduct military operations.'' Could my colleague spell out what his understanding is? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for his response and would like to make it clear that I believe my support would be based upon these kinds of objectives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 
   as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I have for months been closely monitoring the situation in Kosovo, hoping and praying for a peaceful resolution to the crisis. I traveled there about 5 years ago, and have seen for myself the conditions under which millions of ethnic Albanians have struggled under increasing Serb repression. I have seen and visited with U.S. military personnel posted along the Macedonian border--including some very young men from my home State--and I am well aware of the stakes involved in this debate. 
   I and some of my colleagues have been briefed by Secretary Cohen, National Security Advisor Berger, Secretary Albright, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Shelton and others recently about the very fluid and violent situation there. 
   Now that the Albanian Kosovars have signed the Rambouillet agreement, and the Serbs have forcefully rejected it, it is clear that the crisis has moved into a new phase. And now that the Serbs have in the last few days begun--slowly, brutally, methodically--to expand their grip on Kosovo with a massive force of an estimated over 40,000 Serb police and army regulars, the situation becomes more urgent with every passing hour. Those Serb forces have been burning homes, taking the lives of innocent civilians along with KLA insurgents, and forcing tens of thousands of innocent civilians to flee their homes without food and shelter. Just in the last few days, tens of thousands more civilians have been forced from their homes, with Serbian forces leaving their villages smoldering and in ruins behind them in what appears to be their brutal final offensive. While reports have been barred from many areas by Serb forces, it is clear what is going on there. Atrocities of various kinds have become the signature of Serb military forces in Kosovo, just as it was for years in parts of Bosnia. 
   In recent days, including in his press conference last Friday, the President has begun to articulate more clearly to Americans what he believes to be at stake there. The humanitarian disaster that's been unfolding of months, and has now been accelerated by the recent Serb onslaught, coupled with the serious concern that increased violence in Kosovo could spread throughout the region, must be addressed forcefully. While I know some of my colleagues believe strongly that the administration has not articulated forcefully, consistently and clearly the mission and goals of this use of force, and I still have some unanswered questions about the administration's military plans--including the precise timing and strategy for withdrawing U.S. and NATO forces from the region once their mission is accomplished, provisions made to protect United States forces against sophisticated Serb 
   air defense systems, and likely casualties expected from any military action--I believe there is little alternative for us but to intervene with airstrikes as part of a NATO force. 
   I come to this conclusion, as I think many Americans have in recent days, reluctantly, and recognizing that all of the possible courses of action open to the United States in Kosovo present very serious risks. 
   But I am pleased that we are finally having a real debate on this question on the Senate floor. As Senators, I believe we should make it clear on the record what we believe our policy should be in Kosovo. 
   I have agonized over this decision, and consulted widely with those in Minnesota whom I represent, with regional political and military experts, and with others, and have tried to place in historical perspective what is at stake here for our Nation. I have tried, as I know my colleagues have, to weigh carefully the costs of military action in Kosovo against the dangers of inaction. 
   Mr. President, one thing that is clear is that the situation on the ground in Kosovo today is unacceptable and likely to worsen considerably in the coming weeks. The ongoing exodus as refugees flee this latest major military operation mounted by the Yugoslav Army over the last 3 weeks must be contained. 
   This conflict has created, by some estimates, more than 400,000 refugees. A spokesman for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees estimated that 20,000 have been displaced just in the last week by military operations, most of them in the mountain range just northwest of Pristina. As we all know, Milosevic has already carried out numerous massacres and other atrocities in Kosovo, including the killing of more than 40 ethnic Albanian civilians in the village of Racak in January. 
   Right now, there are tens of thousands of refugees on the move in Kosovo. These refugees are facing very basic problems of survival. They lack shelter. They need blankets and stoves. The fighting has knocked out the electricity and water supplies. There are people right now huddling in cellars, and in unfinished houses, with their families. According to an account in the New York Times, people who are refugees themselves are giving shelter to refugees. One family is giving shelter to 80 people. 
   Serbian forces that have been massed on the border of Kosovo are on the march, and it is widely believed that they are planning to accelerate their advance west into the heartland of the rebel resistance and the base of its command headquarters. The people of Kosovo are terrified of such a massive offensive. It is almost certain that we will soon be hearing more stories of massacres and displacements, of women and children and elderly men being summarily executed, and of further atrocities. 
   I have called for months for tougher action by NATO to avert the humanitarian catastrophe that has now been re-ignited by 
    the latest Serb attacks. I find it hard to stand by and let Milosevic continue with his relentless campaign of destruction. But I also recognize the grave consequences which may follow if the U.S. leads a military intervention into this complicated situation. 
   The airstrikes proposed by NATO, if Milosevic does not relent and sign on to the peace agreement, will represent a very serious commitment. If NATO carries out these airstrikes, U.S. pilots will confront a well-trained and motivated air defense force that is capable of shooting down NATO aircraft. Serbian air defense troops are knowledgeable about U.S. tactics from their experience in Bosnia, are protected by mountainous terrain and difficult weather conditions, and are well-prepared and equipped to endure a sustained bombardment. 
   Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Michael Ryan told the Senate Armed Services Committee last week that casualties are a ``distinct possibility,'' and Marine  Commandant Gen. Charles Krulak said. ``It is going to be tremendously dangerous.'' 
   We not only risk losing our own pilots, but, even if our attacks are carefully circumscribed, we run the risk of killing innocent Serb civilians. 
   Before we decide to send our pilots into harm's way we must be certain that we have exhausted all diplomatic options and that we essentially have no other choice. 
   As I have grappled with this decision, I have tried to reduce it to its simplest form: Will action now save more lives and prevent more suffering than no action. 
   Despite the dangers, I have concluded that the NATO airstrikes which may soon be underway will save more lives in the long run than they will cost. I hope and pray that we do not suffer any American casualties in these air operations, and that innocent civilian casualties on both sides are kept to a minimum, but I fear that if we do not act now thousands will lose their lives in the coming months and years. 
   A decision to use force is also justified by reasons that go beyond humanitarian concerns. It has been argued by the Administration that an intense and sustained conflict in Kosovo could sent tens of thousands of refugees across borders and, potentially, draw Albania, Macedonia, Greece, and Turkey into the war. We will not be able to contain such a wider Balkan war without far greater risk and cost. And we could well face a greater humanitarian catastrophe than we face now. I am not just talking about a geopolitical abstraction, the stability of the region. I am talking about the human cost of a wider Balkan conflict. 
   So as I see it, the immediate goal of NATO airstrikes would be to degrade Serbian military forces so that they could not seriously threaten the ethnic Albanians in Kosovo and also to force Milosevic into signing a peace agreement that could end the fighting in Kosovo and bring stability to the region. 
   I am not a Senator who supports military action lightly. I still hope this conflict can be settled without an actual military engagement. But I feel that we simply must act now to forestall a larger humanitarian crisis. 
   Mr. President, in the end my support for airstrikes in this situation arises from my deep conviction that we cannot let these kinds of atrocities and humanitarian disasters continue if we have ti in our power to stop them. I believe that it is our duty to act. In this case we cannot shirk our responsibility to act. We cannot stand idly by. That's why I intend to support the President's decision. 
   Mr. President, I have agonized over this vote. But I very honestly and truthfully believe that if we do not take this action as a part of the NATO force that we will see a massacre of innocent people--men, women, and children. I do not believe that we or the international community can turn our gaze away from that. 
   Therefore, I rise tonight with concern, but, nevertheless, I want to say it as honestly and as truthfully as I can as a Senator from Minnesota. I do support this resolution. I hope and pray that our forces will be safe. I hope and pray that there will be minimum loss of civilian life. And I hope and pray that by our actions we can prevent what I think otherwise will be an absolute catastrophe. 
   I yield the floor. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, was there a unanimous consent agreement that the Senator from Mississippi wanted to propound? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
   Mr. President, I rise to speak today on the floor of the U.S. Senate to express my opposition to this resolution that is before us. 
   I may be standing alone on this vote. I hope not. I appreciate the efforts of my colleague from Louisiana to offer an amendment that would ensure that this bill states, or this resolution, because that is really what it is, that it is still the policy of the United States to pursue arms reduction negotiations. I think that was an important statement. I do not honestly and truthfully believe that that amendment is enough. It does not directly tie a decision to deploy a national missile defense directly to its impact on arms reduction agreements. That is what I am worried about. 
   I think my good friend, the Senator from Michigan, had it right in his substitute amendment--before a decision to deploy, the administration and the Congress should review the impact of that decision on nuclear arms reductions and on arms control agreements. 
   I think this is right. The decision to deploy--and that is what this resolution instructs us to do--should be made carefully, at the right time, after we are sure of its impact on important arms control and arms reduction decisions. I know my colleague from Michigan, who I think is one of the truly great Senators, has concluded that the Landrieu language is sufficient, but I have to respectfully disagree. 
   This resolution talks about deploying missile defense. I have supported in the past efforts to develop such a system to at least do research, but I have never voted for a resolution that says we go forward with deployment. 
   I would not oppose, again, the research and the focus on the possibility of needing a missile defense system if this was done hand in hand with an emphasis on the importance of arms reduction agreements. But I do not believe that this resolution before us is at all evenhanded in this respect. 
   Our colleague from Mississippi, a colleague for whom I also have a great deal of respect, Senator COCHRAN, was quoted in the Washington Times today saying that the Landrieu amendment was an important step--and he meant this in very good faith; he means everything in good faith--of an important national security goal. But the inclusion of the national missile defense policy and arms reduction policy in the same bill ``does not imply that one is contingent on the other.'' 
   I think they should be, and that is why I do not think the language is sufficient. That is why I will vote against this bill. 
   Actually, I do not know whether to call it a bill or a resolution. There is no money. It is just a statement. We say this will be the policy. It is a declaration by the Senate. 
   We ought to be focusing on the reduction of existing missiles. We ought to be focusing on nonproliferation efforts to stop the spread of existing technology of weapons of mass destruction. We should not be saying that it is the policy of the United States to spend billions of dollars on unproven systems to defend ourselves against phantom missiles from hypothetical rogue states. 
   We have spent already $120 billion on this antimissile defense system. I heard my colleague from Arizona, who is a colleague for whom I have tremendous respect, talking about some of the ways in which he thinks the administration has been a bit disingenuous about how we can balance the budget and spend money here or do this, that, and the other. I understand what my colleague was saying. In all due respect, I have to raise questions about this. 
   First of all, I have to say that I believe that this vote today is a profound mistake. I think the vote today, if it is an overwhelmingly strong vote for this resolution, jeopardizes years of work toward achieving nuclear arms control and arms reduction, and that will not increase our security. That will not increase the security of my children or my grandchildren. 
   I am very concerned about our national defense. I am very concerned about our security. I am very concerned about the security of my children and my grandchildren. I believe the best single thing we can do to assure that security is to maintain a commitment to arms control agreements. 
   Some of my colleagues do not agree with what we did with the ABM Treaty. They are not so focused on where we need to go with the START agreements. I argue that these arms control agreements and everything and anything we can do to stop the 
   proliferation of these weapons and to engage the former Soviet Union--Russia today--in arms control agreements, reducing the nuclear arsenals, less missiles, less warheads, less of a possibility of a launching of these weapons is what is most in our national security. I do not believe that this resolution takes us in that direction at all. 
   There is a distinction between talking about the development of a missile defense system and actually the language in this resolution which talks about deploying. There is a distinction between saying we only go forward, but before a decision to deploy, the administration and the Congress should review the impact of this decision on nuclear arms reductions and arms control agreements. 
   There is a distinction between such language, and I believe what the amendment that my colleague from Louisiana offered yesterday, which says that it is our policy to pursue arms reduction negotiations--oh, how I would like to see a connection. Oh, how I want to see a nexus. You cannot imagine how much I want to vote for a resolution like this, which is going to have such overwhelming support, and I would if I did not believe that what is only a resolution will be used next year when we come to authorization and appropriations to say that there was unanimous--no, there won't be unanimous support; there will be at least one vote against it--near unanimous support to go forward with missile defense. And then the request will come in for the money. 
   What will the cost be? This resolution, or this piece of legislation, should be called the ``Blank Check Act,'' because that is what we are doing. We are authorizing a blank check for tens of  billions, maybe hundreds of billions of dollars for all I know, for a missile defense system in the future. At what cost? 
   Mr. President, $120 billion already, tens of billions of dollars a year, I don't know how long in the future, is going to go for a missile defense system, and this vote is going to be used as the rationale for doing so. Maybe not with this administration, because I think the administration has made it clear it is committed to an arms control agreement. But what about the next administration? I hope it will be a Democratic administration, but I do not know and I do not want to vote for a blank check for tens of billions of dollars for such a system which I think puts into jeopardy arms control negotiations and arms control reductions. 
   Mr. President, for a senior citizen in the State of Minnesota who cannot afford to pay for a drug that has been prescribed by her doctor--this is a huge problem for elderly people in our country, many of whom are paying up to 30 percent of their annual monthly budget just for prescription drugs--for that senior citizen to not be able to afford a prescription drug that her doctor prescribes for her health is a lot bigger threat to her than that some missile is going to hit her in the near future or in the distant future. 
   Yet, we are being told that we cannot afford to make sure we have prescription drug costs for elderly citizens in this country. But now what we are going to do, I fear, is adopt a resolution that will be used later on as a rationalization and justification for spending tens of billions of dollars on top of $120 billion for unproven systems to defend us against phantom missiles from hypothetical rogue states. 
   Our focus should be on the arsenal of nuclear weapons that Russia has now and how we can have arms control agreements with Russia. We ought not to be putting ABM and START in jeopardy. We ought not to be putting arms control in jeopardy. We ought not to be putting our efforts at stopping the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in jeopardy, and I believe that is what this resolution does. That is my honestly held view. 
   The administration has apparently changed its position. I wish they had not. 
   My colleague from Michigan, Senator LEVIN, has a different interpretation. I think he believes that this resolution puts the emphasis that needs to be there on arms control reductions. I hope and pray he is right. I think he believes this resolution has language, through the annual review process in appropriations bills, that makes it clear that this has to be technologically feasible to go forward. I hope he is right. But, quite frankly, I do not think that is really what this resolution says. 
   I am not going to err on the side of voting for a resolution that now gives credibility to spending tens of billions of dollars, over the years to come, on a questionable missile defense system that puts arms control agreements in jeopardy and does not speak to the very real national security that we have in our own country. 
   I would like to finish this way, Mr. President. Since I heard some of my colleagues on the other side talk about the President's budget, I would like to ask my colleagues, What exactly do you propose to do with your budget caps, your tax cuts, and wanting to increase the Pentagon budget $140 billion over the next 6 years? 
   And that goes for far more than just increasing the salaries of our men and women in the armed services, who should have their salaries increased; and that is much more far-reaching than just dealing with quality-of-life issues for men and women in the armed services, who deserve all our support in that respect. Now we are talking about laying the groundwork, on top of $120 billion that has already been spent, for tens of billions of dollars. This could end up being $40 billion-plus just for this missile defense system. 
   So my question is, After we do this, what do you say to senior citizens in your State who say, ``Can't you make sure that we can afford prescription drug costs?'' I know what you are going to say. ``We can't afford it.'' What are you going to say to people who say, ``Can't you invest more in our children in education?'' We are going to say, ``We can't afford it.'' 
   What do you say to people in the disabilities community who were in my office yesterday, saying, ``Can't you invest in home-based health care so that we can live at home in as near as normal circumstances as possible with dignity?'' We are going to say, ``We can't afford it.'' What are we going to say to people who say, ``We can't afford affordable housing''? We are going to say, ``We can't afford it.'' 
   I will tell you something; the real national security of our country is not to vote for this resolution that could very well put arms control agreements in jeopardy. And I am not willing to err on that side. If we do that, it will be a tragic mistake. It will be a tragic mistake for all of our children. 
   The real national security for our country is to not spend billions of dollars on unproven systems to defend us against phantom missiles from hypothetical rogue states. The real national security for our country will be the security of local communities, where there is affordable child care, there is affordable health care, there is affordable housing, people find jobs at decent wages, and we make a commitment to education second to none so that every boy and every girl can grow up dreaming to be President of the United States of America. That is the real national security of our country. 
   Mr. President, I think this resolution is a profound mistake. And if I am the only vote against it, so be it, but I will not vote for the resolution. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. President, my colleague, Senator STEVENS, had made the request he be able to speak right after I finished. I do not see him right now, but could I ask unanimous consent that he be allowed to speak next? I know he was anxious to do so. He should be here in a moment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce two pieces of legislation that I believe would represent a giant step forward for working Americans. The first bill, which I am calling the ``Safer Workplaces Act of 1999,'' contains four provisions that would extend health and safety protections for workers in the workplace. The second bill, the ``Right to Organize Act of 1999,'' would go a long way toward correcting some of the flagrant abuses  of the law that have resulted in workers being denied their right to organize and bargain collectively. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Community Development Venture Capital Assistance Act of 1999. This bill would create a demonstration program to promote small business development and entrepreneurship in economically distressed communities through support of Community Development Venture Capital funds. 
   While our nation has enjoyed a historic period of economic growth over the past several years, there are concentrated pockets of poverty, in rural and urban areas, which have not experienced development of jobs and opportunities for its residents. Small businesses, which have led America's economic expansion, have not been able to gain a toehold in these areas. A major reason for this lackluster performance is inability for entrepreneurs in economically distressed areas to access capital. 
   No business can grow without infusions of capital for equipment purchases, to conduct research, to expand capacity, or to build infrastructure. At some point all successful ventures outgrow incubation in the entrepreneur's garage or living room; additional staff must be hired and the complexity of managing supply and demand increases. Yet it is clear that throughout the country there are small business owners who are being starved of the capital necessary to take this step. They have viable businesses or ideas for businesses but cannot fully transform their aspirations into reality because of this financial roadblock. 
   Traditional venture capital firms are not meeting the need for equity capital in disadvantaged communities. Such investments are risky in the best of circumstances, but they can and do succeed with adequate time and attention. These communities need patient investors who are willing to work closely with small business owners to realize a financial return over the long term. Often, the investments needed are smaller than those made by traditional sources. Throughout America, organizations known as Community Development Venture Capital funds are making these kinds of equity investments in communities and are producing excellent results. 
   CDVC funds make equity investments in small businesses for two purposes: to reap a financial return to the fund, and to generate a social benefit for the community through creation of well paying jobs. This ``double bottom line'' is what makes CDVC funds unique. There are around 30 CDVC funds currently operating throughout the country, in both rural and urban areas. These funds are demonstrating the success of socially conscious investment and entrepreneurial solutions to social and economic problems. 
   My own state of Minnesota is home to a good example of a seasoned, and successful CDVC fund: Northeast Ventures Corporation of Duluth. NEV serves a seven county rural area and focuses on creating good jobs in high value-added industries. NEV targets 50% of the jobs created through investments to women, and to low income and structurally unemployed persons. They also require portfolio companies to offer employees an opportunity to participate in a health care plan to which the employer contributes. The following story illustrates an NEV achievement: 
   In 1990 a group of entrepreneurs approached Northeast Ventures about setting up a car wash equipment manufacturing facility in Tower, a town of 508 people, in one of the poorest parts of Northeastern Minnesota. While NEV thought that the market opportunity was attractive, the company, called Powerain, had an incomplete business plan and lacked a Chief Operating Officer. NEV also felt that the business provided a good opportunity to create jobs and bring some economic vitality to an area that needed it badly. 
   Other assistance was needed before NEV could provide financing for the effort. Northeast worked closely with Powerain's founders to revise the business plan and identify a strong CEO candidate for the company. Northeast also invested $200,000 in equity into the business. 
   Northeast's involvement did not stop after making its first investment. NEV staff conducted the strategic planning sessions of Powerain and continue to be essential in developing the company's strategic plan. They assist in identifying the need for key personnel; recruit the necessary staff; and are integral in qualifying the short list of candidates. Over a multi year period, NEV has talked daily with the Powerain CEO regarding subjects as diverse as sales, distributor relationships and the financial structure of loans. Over an  eight year period, NEV has assisted Powerain in all subsequent rounds of financing totaling $826,932. 
   Powerain had a record sales year in 1998 and is expecting another record year in 1999. The company currently employs 20 full-time people, and expects to increase that number significantly in the future. The company provides ongoing training to its staff and entry level positions begin at $8 an hour--with full benefits. Most employees earn well in excess of $10 per hour. Success stories such as these are typical for CDVC funds. 
   The purpose of the Community Development Venture Capital Assistance Act is to grow the capacity of the CDVC fund ``industry'' by authorizing a $20 million four year demonstration program through the Small Business Administration. First, the bill would authorize $15 million for SBA grants to private, nonprofit organizations with expertise in making venture capital investments in poor communities. This will provide hands-on technical assistance to the new and emerging CDVC funds. These grants could also be used to fund the start up and operating costs of new CDVC organizations. Grants to these intermediary organizations would be matched dollar for dollar with funds raised by the intermediary from non-Federal sources. Second, the bill would provide $5 million in SBA grants to colleges, universities, and other firms or organizations--public or private--to create and operate training programs, intern programs, a national conference, and academic research and study dealing with community development venture capital. 
   This legislation would provide support for entrepreneurial solutions to economic development issues in rural and urban America. It will allow the Federal government to promote what's working in distressed communities. Last year, the Senate approved a nearly identical provision as part of an SBA technical amendments bill. I was pleased that the demonstration program enjoyed bipartisan support last year and I hope it will again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I address you today to speak about a problem that is one of the most pressing facing our nation today. Ten million children in America are eligible for federal child care assistance, yet we provide for only 1.4 million of them. Fully 86 percent of eligible children are left unattended or are forced into inadequate facilities that are often overcrowded. These are the only viable options for parents who are struggling to make ends meet even in these times of national prosperity. The waiting list for child care assistance in many states extends to tens of thousands of eligible families. And so many parents who would give almost anything to be able to stay at home and care for their children themselves simply can't afford to do so. Something needs to be done soon. The problems that we are facing today will only compound as children who have been inadequately cared for struggle in school and society. As President Kennedy said, ``the time to fix the roof is when the sun is shining.'' 
   Today I reintroduce the most ambitious effort to address this problem to date, The Child Development Act. With this one piece of legislation, our nation will cut our most threatening problem in half. This bill provides support for half of the ten million American children who are eligible for federal child support assistance, and provides billions of dollars in tax credits for parents who choose to stay home with their children. 
   The Child Development Act will help children and their parents several ways. First, it will greatly increase funding for the CCDBG program, a tried and proven method of providing for care of our children. The bulk of this money ($37.5 billion over 5 years) will be used to provide more affordability for families wanting to enroll their children in child care programs. There is also $4 billion in CCDBG funds set aside for improving the quality of child care in our country, which is definitely necessary as Children's Defense Fund studies show that 6 out of 7 child care facilities in this country provide only poor to mediocre service, and one out of eight centers actually put the safety of children at risk. Five billion dollars in CCDBG increases is set aside for improving afterschool programs for school age children. Additional $2 billion in CCDBG increases is allocated for new child care facilities construction ($500 million) providing 50,000 to 75,000 new high quality child care slots each year; increases in public/private partnerships where states and local communities' private sectors must each match twenty five percent of grants ($500 million); and $1 billion is allocated for professional development of child care workers. The remaining portions of the $62.5 billion bill are $1 billion in loan forgiveness to those who earn a degree and work in early childhood education, and $13 billion in tax credits for low- and middle-income working parents, so that they can better afford quality care for their children. Those parents who make the tough financial decision to stay at home and care for their children will be greatly assisted by this provision. 
   Research has shown that much of what happens in life depends upon the first three years of development. The brain is so profoundly influenced during this time because the brain of a three-year-old has twice as many synapses (connections between brain cells) as that of her adult parents. The process of brain development is actually one of ``pruning'' out the synapses that one does not need (or more accurately, does not use) from those that become the brains standard ``wiring.'' This is why the first three years of development are so important--this is the time that the brain must develop the wiring that is going to be used for the rest of one's life. According to a report on brain development published by the Families and Work Institute, ``Early care and nurture have a decisive, long lasting impact on how people develop, their ability to learn, and their capacity to control their own emotions.'' If children do not receive proper care before the age of three, they never receive the chance to develop into fully functioning adults. 
   We are not allowing our children a chance in life when we do not provide them with proper care in their early  years. If America is to achieve its goal of equal opportunity for our children, we need to start with proper care in their early years. It is a painful statistic then that our youngest citizens are also some of the poorest Americans. One out of every four of our country's 12 million children under the age of three live in poverty. It becomes very difficult to break out of the cycle of poverty if poor children are not allowed to develop into fully functioning adults. 
   Yet many parents in America do not have the option of providing adequate care for their children. For parents who can barely afford rent it is nearly impossible to take advantage of the Family Medical Leave Act, and sacrifice 12 weeks of pay in order to directly supervise a child. Many mothers need to return to work shortly after giving birth and find that the only options open to them are to place their children in care that is substandard, even potentially dangerous--but affordable. According to the Children's Defense Fund, six out of seven child care centers provide only poor to mediocre care, and one in eight centers provide care that could jeopardize children's safety and development. The same study said that one in three home-based care situations could be harmful to a child's development. How can we abide by these statistics? 
   This is a serious problem, and frighteningly widespread. The eligibility levels set for receiving child care aid through the federal Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) is 85 percent of a state's median income. Nationally, this came out to about $35,000 for a family of three in 1998. However, according to the Children's Defense Fund, fully half of all families with young children earn less than $35,000 per year. Half! A family that has two parents working full time at minimum wage earns only $21,400 per year. This is not nearly enough to even dream of adequate child care. 
   Child care costs in the United States for one child in full-day day care range from $4,000 to $10,000 a year. It is not surprising that, on average, families with incomes under $15,000 a year spend 23 percent of their annual incomes on child care. And in West Virginia, if a family of three makes more than that $15,000, they no longer qualify for child care aid! In fact, thirty-two states do not allow a family of three which earns $25,000 a year (approximately 185 percent of poverty) to qualify for help. Only four states in our nation set eligibility cut-offs for receiving child care assistance at 85 percent of median family income, the maximum allowed by federal law. There is obviously not enough funding to support the huge need for child care assistance in our nation, and that is why I am proposing the Child Care Development Act. 
   There is widespread support for expanded investments to improve the affordability and quality of child care. A recent survey of 550 police chiefs found that nine out of ten police chiefs surveyed agreed that ``America could sharply reduce crime if government invested more in programs to help children and youth get a good start'' such as Head Start and child care. Mayors across the 
   country identified child care, more than any other issue, as one of the most pressing issues facing children and families in their communities in 1996 survey. A recent poll found that a bipartisan majority of those polled support increased investments in helping families pay for child care - specifically, 74% of those polled favor a bill to help low-income and middle-class families pay for child care, including 79% of Democrats, 69% of Republicans, and 76% of Independents. 
   It is clear that many like to talk about supporting our children, and many are in favor of supporting our children, but what action is actually taken? Yes, the addition of new child care dollars in 1996 has helped welfare recipients, but it has done nothing for working, low-income families not receiving TANF. The Children's Defense Fund recommends that Congress pass comprehensive legislation that guarantees at least $20 billion over five years in new funding for the Child Care Development Block Grant (CCDBG). My Child Care Development Act goes beyond this, yet even my bill is just a first step. This bill is designed to provide affordable, quality child care to half of the ten million American children presently in need of subsidized care. It will provide $62.5 billion over 5 years--$12.5 billion a year--nearly three times the amount proposed in the President's most ambitious, and still unprosecuted, proposal. In 1997 the President proposed extending care to 600,000 children from poor families, leaving fully 80% of eligible children without aid. The last time we heard about that proposal was 1997. 
   If we are serious about putting parents to work and protecting children, we need to invest more in families and in child care help for them. Enabling families to work and helping children thrive means giving states enough money so that they can set reasonable eligibility levels, let families know that help is available, and take working families off the waiting lists. 
   The Child Care Development Act will require $62.5 billion over five years. There will be several offsets necessary if we are serious about giving children in this country the type of care they need and deserve. Shifting spending from these offsets demonstrates that our true national priority is children, not wasteful military spending and corporate tax loopholes. 
   The offsets that will be necessary are as follows. If we repeal the reductions in the Corporate Minimum Tax from the 1997 Budget Bill, we create $8.2 billion. The elimination of the Special Oil and Gas Depletion Allowance will make room for and additional $4.3 billion. An offset of $575 million will come from a repeal of the Enhanced Oil Recovery Credit and an offset of $13.8 billion will come from the elimination of exclusion for Foreign-Earned Income. From these four different offsets in tax provisions a sub total amount of $26.8 billion is created to spend on child care. 
   Defense cuts will also be necessary in the amount of $24.4 billion. This will come from canceling the F-22, a plane plagued with troubles, which will free up $19.3 billion, and $5.1 billion will come from a reduction in Nuclear Delivery Systems Within Overall Limits of START II. 
   The remaining offsets can be made by reducing the Intelligence Budget by 5%, which would save $6.7 billion; by reducing Military Export Subsidies by $850 million; and by canceling the International Space Station, which costs $10 billion. All of which, when added together, allows for an additional $68.8 billion to be used to support our children. 
   This is, finally, a child care bill on the same scope as the problem itself. We as a nation are neglecting the most vulnerable and important portion of our society--our children. Here is an ambitious solution to this vast problem that has been plaguing our country, so that we don't have to be a country that just talks about putting our children first.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I shall be relatively brief, and then I will ask Senator WYDEN, who is a cosponsor of this resolution, to really manage the rest of the time for Democrats. He is really the person who has taken the lead in the Senate on this, and he certainly should have the most time to talk about the resolution and the importance of it. 
   Mr. President, I will make a couple of points. One of them is very much in agreement with my colleague from Kansas, having to do with the importance of the peace process. 
   First, let me say that I think this resolution, which calls on the Palestinians not to unilaterally declare an independent state, is an important resolution. It is one which I certainly support. I support this resolution because I think that whatever ultimately is decided about whether or not there is or is not an independent Palestinian state, that is to be decided by Israel and the Palestinians. That is a part of the negotiation, part of where this peace process has to go in terms of dealing with these kinds of difficult questions. It would be a tragic mistake for there to be a unilateral declaration of a Palestinian state now. It would be a tragic mistake. I think this resolution really says that in a fairly strong and firm way. 
   Second of all, let me just say that I did have a chance, in December, to go to Israel with President Clinton. I have been a critic of the President on any number of different issues, especially when it comes to human rights questions. I think the administration's record is very weak. I think the President is trying to do the right thing in the Mideast. I went, in part, because I thought this was a commitment that the President was living up to, which he had made, regarding the Wye River agreement. 
   It was a very moving trip. I thought it was especially significant. I am convinced that the historians will write about what happened in Gaza when the Palestinian National Council went on record voting to revoke that part of their charter that called for the destruction of Israel. That can only be a step forward. It was very moving to be there when that vote took place. I just think that it raised the benchmark in terms of where we are going in the peace process. I thought it was a terribly important step that was taken. 
   Now we really wait to see what will happen in Israel. There are key elections. It is my hope that both Israel and the Palestinians will live up to a commitment that I think is so important to people all over the world. If there is not some political settlement, if there is not some resolution of this conflict, I fear that Israeli children and Palestinian children will be killing each other for generations to come. 
   My final point is that I would like to make this a part of the Senate record, and that is why I wanted to speak briefly about this. I do not believe that our support for this resolution should be construed as the U.S. Senate taking a one-sided point of view. I think we  should be evenhanded. I think the role of our Government is to encourage both parties to be committed to this peace process. 
   I think the role of the U.S. Government is to have credibility with both parties and to simply say that this really is the only step that can be taken, and the only step that can be taken is a political settlement. 
   So let me just make it clear, as ranking minority member of this committee, that this resolution is a terribly important resolution. I thank my colleagues for their leadership on this question, but I also want to make it clear that I believe it is important for the U.S. Senate to maintain an evenhanded approach and to do everything we can to encourage this peace process to go forward, to do everything we can to encourage both parties to be a part of this peace process. And I believe that is what this resolution does. 
   I will reserve the remainder of the time on our side. I will ask my colleague, Senator WYDEN from Oregon, to please manage this bill forthwith. 
   I ask unanimous consent that John Bradshaw, a fellow in my office, be allowed to be on the floor of the Senate for the rest of the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may we have order the Chamber. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could we have order in the Chamber. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, following is a list of requirements this amendment will make unwaivable under Ed-Flex: providing opportunities for all children to meet challenging achievement levels; using learning approaches that meet the needs of historical underserved populations, including girls and women; provide instruction by highly qualified professional staff; provide professional development for teachers and aides to enable all children in the school to meet the State's student performance standards. 
   I am for flexibility, but we ought to also have, in addition, accountability. These are the core requirements of the title I program as a part of ESEA passed in 1965. There is a reason for these core requirements. We want to make sure that there will be no loophole so that we give protection to poor children in this country. Right now, this ed flexibility bill, unless this amendment is agreed to, creates a loophole whereby a State could allow a school district to be exempt from these basic core requirements, which is our effort as a national community to make sure that poor children have educational opportunities. 
   The Ed-Flex bill, if this amendment is not agreed to, could take away opportunities for poor children. I ask for your support in relation to title I, in relation to the vocational education program. This is the right thing to do. If this amendment is not agreed to, this piece of legislation will not be a step forward for low-income children in America. It will be a great leap backward. 
   Please support this amendment, colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this week across the globe, men and women have celebrated International Women's Day, highlighting the achievements of women around the world. From Qatar to Indonesia, the day was marked by women marching, meeting, and protesting for recognition of their inherent dignity and fundamental human rights. I believe there is much work yet to be done to ensure that women and girls' human rights are protected and respected. 
   One of the most horrendous human rights violations of our time is trafficking in human beings, particularly among women and children, for purposes of sexual exploitation and forced labor. To curb this horrific practice, I am introducing the ``International Trafficking of Women and Children Victim Protection Act of 1999'' which will put Congress on record as opposing trafficking for forced prostitution and domestic servitude, and acting to check it before the lives of more women and girls are shattered. 
   One of the fastest growing international trafficking businesses is the trade in women. Women and girls seeking a better life, a good marriage, or a lucrative job abroad, unexpectedly find themselves forced to work as prostitutes, or in sweat shops. Seeking this better life, they are lured by local advertisements for good jobs in foreign countries at wages they could never imagine at home. 
   Every year, the trafficking of human beings for the sex trade affects hundreds of thousands of women throughout the world. Women and children whose lives have been disrupted by economic collapse, civil wars, or fundamental changes in political geography, such as the disintegration of the Soviet Union, have fallen prey to traffickers. The United States government estimates that 1-2 million women and girls are trafficked annually around the world. According to experts, between 50 and 100 thousand women are trafficked each year into the United States alone. They come from Thailand, Russia, the Ukraine and other countries in Asia and the former Soviet Union. 
   Upon arrival in countries far from their homes, these women are often stripped of their passports, held against their will in slave-like conditions, and sexually abused. Rape, intimidation, and violence are commonly employed by traffickers to control their victims and to prevent them from seeking help. Through physical isolation and psychological trauma, traffickers and brothel owners imprison women in a world of economic and sexual exploitation that imposes a constant fear of arrest and deportation, as well as of violent reprisals by the traffickers themselves, to whom the women must pay off ever-growing debts. Many brothel owners actually prefer women--women who are far from help and home, and who do not speak the language--precisely because of the ease of controlling them. 
   Most of these women never imagined that they would enter such a hellish world, having traveled abroad to find better jobs or to see the world. Many in their naivete, believed that nothing bad could happen to them in the rich and comfortable countries such as Switzerland, Germany, or the United States. Others, who are less naive but desperate for money and opportunity, are no less hurt by the trafficker's brutal grip. 
   Last year, First Lady Hilary Clinton spoke powerfully of this human tragedy. She said: ``I have spoken to young girls in northern Thailand whose parents were persuaded to sell them as prostitutes, and they received a great deal of money by their standards. You could often tell the homes of where the girls had been sold because they might even have a satellite dish or an addition built on their house. But I met girls who had come home after they had been used up, after they had contracted HIV or AIDS. If you've ever held the hand of a 13-year-old girl dying of AIDS, you can understand how critical it is that we take every step possible to prevent this happening to any other girl anywhere in the world. I also, in the Ukraine, heard of women who told me with tears running down their faces that young women in their communities were disappearing. They answered ads that promised a much better future in another place and they were never heard from again.'' 
   These events are occurring not just in far off lands, but here at home in the U.S. as well. According to a report in the Washington Post in 1997, the FBI raided a massage parlor in downtown Bethesda. The massage parlor was involved in the trafficking of Russian women into the United States. The eight Russian women who worked there, lived at the 
   massage parlor, sleeping on the massage tables at night. They were charged a $150 a week for ``housing'' and were not paid any salary, only receiving a portion of their tips. 
   According to recent reports by the Justice Department, teenage Mexican girls were held in slavery in Florida and the Carolinas and forced to submit to prostitution. In addition, Russian and Latvian women were forced to work in nightclubs in Chicago. According to charges filed against the traffickers, the traffickers picked the women up upon their arrival at the airport, seized their documents and return tickets, locked them in hotels and beat  them. The women were told that if they refused to dance nude in various nightclubs, the Russian mafia would kill their families. Further, over three years, hundreds of women from the Czech Republic who answered advertisements in Czech newspapers for modeling were ensnared in an illegal prostitution ring. 
   Trafficking in women and girls is a human rights problem that requires a human rights response. Trafficking is condemned by human rights treaties as a violation of basic human rights and a slavery-like practice. Women who are trafficked are subjected to other abuses--rape, beatings, physical confinement--squarely prohibited by human rights law. The human abuses continue in the workplace, in the forms of physical and sexual abuse, debt bondage and illegal confinement, and all are prohibited. 
   Fortunately, the global trade in women and children is receiving greater attention by governments and NGOs following the UN World Conference on Women in Beijing. The United Nations General Assembly has called upon all governments to criminalize trafficking, to punish its offenders, while not penalizing its victims. The President's Interagency Council on Women is working hard to mobilize a response to this problem. Churches, synagogues, and NGOs, such as Human Rights Watch and the Global Survival Network, are fighting this battle daily. But, much, much more must be done. 
   My legislation provides a human rights response to the problem. It has a comprehensive and integrated approach focused on prevention, protection and assistance for victims, and prosecution of traffickers. 
   I will highlight a few of its provisions now: 
   It sets an international standard for governments to meet in their efforts to fight trafficking and assist victims of this human rights abuse. It calls on the State Department and Justice Department to investigate and take action against international trafficking. In addition, it creates an Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in the Office of the Secretary of State and directs the Secretary to submit an annual report to Congress on international trafficking. 
   The annual report would, among other things, identify states engaged in trafficking, the efforts of these states to combat trafficking, and whether their government officials are complicit in the practice. Corrupt government or law enforcement officials sometimes directly participate and benefit in the trade of women and girls. And, corruption also prevents prosecution of traffickers. U.S. police assistance would be barred to countries found not to have taken effective action in ending the participation of their officials in trafficking, and in investigating and prosecuting meaningfully their officials involved in trafficking. A waiver is provided for the President if he finds that provision of such assistance is in the national interest. 
   On a national level, it ensures that our immigration laws do not encourage rapid deportation of trafficked women, a practice which effectively insulates traffickers from ever being prosecuted for their crimes. Trafficking victims are eligible for a nonimmigrant status valid for three months. If the victim pursues criminal or civil actions against her trafficker, or if she pursues an asylum claim, she is provided with an extension of time. Further, it provides that trafficked women should not be detained, but instead receive needed services, safe shelter, and the opportunity to seek justice against their abusers. Finally, my bill provides much needed resources to programs assisting trafficking victims here at home and abroad. 
   We must commit ourselves to ending the trafficking of women and girls and to building a world in which such exploitation is relegated to the dark past. I urge my colleagues to support the International Trafficking of Women and Children Protection Act of 1999. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, and I shall not, did the majority leader say between the votes tomorrow there will be 5 minutes equally divided? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, and I shall not. Is the order which listed the amendments the order of the votes or the order in which the amendments would be laid down? Is there flexibility--to use that word--about how we might proceed this afternoon, for those of us who are here and ready to do our amendments? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Inquiry. I don't know whether we are finished with this amendment. If so, I am ready to send an amendment to the desk. I do not know whether my colleague from Vermont-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have an extra copy. Might I ask whether I could also get one Xeroxed while I am speaking? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, this amendment, which I have talked to my colleagues about, speaks to the central issue with this legislation that a lot of colleagues, I think, are trying to step around, dance around; that is, accountability. In other words, this amendment says we are for flexibility, but we are also for flexibility with accountability. 
   It is absolutely acceptable for school districts and States to make all kinds of decisions on the ground about whether or not you want more teaching assistants or more computers or more community outreach. All of that makes sense and is within the framework of flexibility. 
   I say to my colleague from Vermont, this amendment combines two amendments, so let me start and devote maybe about 5 minutes or less to the Perkins program--a very important vocational education program. What this amendment essentially says is, look, there are certain kinds of core requirements, core accountability requirements, of the Perkins program--vocational ed, high school, college--that must be protected--that must be protected. 
   The requirement that school districts and vocational schools meet their States' performance standards, who can object to that? The requirement  that schools and districts provide professional development to teachers, counselors and administrators, who can object to that? The requirement that schools must provide programs of sufficient size, scope and quality to bring about improvement, what is objectionable about that? The requirement that schools and districts must evaluate the programs, including the assessment of how the needs of special populations are being met, what is objectionable about that? And finally, the requirement that schools and districts must tell the State about their process for local evaluation and improvement of the program. 
   That is the Perkins Vocational Education Program. And the only thing I am saying, on the basis, I say to my colleague from Vermont, of the good work that we have done together on vocational education, why in the world, understanding the importance of flexibility, would we want to not at least protect this program and make sure that in every State all across the country that at least these core requirements are met? Let everybody be flexible as long as they meet these core requirements. Let's not sacrifice the quality of this program. 
   Mr. President, the other part of this amendment is what troubles me the most. This is what troubles me the most about Ed-Flex. And let me just say to my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats alike, I am quite sure that this amendment is going to pass overwhelmingly. For all I know, it may get 99 votes. But let me tell you one unpleasant truth that you have been unwilling to face up to. 
   It is this: When the original title I program first passed in 1965, a lot of sweat and tears went into this program. We had some basic protections for poor children in America and we said there were going to be certain core requirements and in no way, shape, or form would those requirements ever be violated because this went to the very essence of what we are about as a Federal Government, which is making sure there is protection and quality of education for all our children. 
   Here is what the core requirements are all about. This amendment is a different version from the amendment I had on the floor, because this is trimmed down and it refers specifically to sections 114(b) and 115(c) of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. 
   I am just saying we wrote this into this legislation in 1965, colleagues. This was over 30 years ago. What did we say? We said let's make sure that no State will ever be in a position of being able to give a school district a waiver from the following requirements: That for all of the title I children, low-income children, there will be opportunities for all children to meet challenging achievement levels; that they will use effective instructional strategies which will give primary consideration to extending learning time, like an extended school year; that we will serve underserved populations, including women and men, or girls and boys; that we will address the needs of children, particularly those who are members of the target population, who need additional help; that we will provide instruction by highly qualified professional staff; that we will minimize removing children from the regular classroom during regular school hours; and that we will provide the professional development for teachers and aides to enable the children in school to meet the State student performance standards. 
   What is going on here? I came out here and spoke for almost 4 hours the other day and I never heard anybody give me a substantive argument about why they are opposed to this amendment. What is going on here? I am not going to use Senators' names, but one Senator with considerable stature here in the U.S. Senate said, ``Senator WELLSTONE, if your amendment passes, it will gut this bill.'' If that is what my colleague is saying, that is exactly what makes me worry about this legislation. How could this amendment gut Ed-Flex when this amendment just says we are going to do with Ed-Flex what the proponents of Ed-Flex say Ed-Flex does? 
   Then my colleagues say, ``Don't you trust the Governors? Don't you trust the school districts across America?'' My answer is yes, I trust most of them, and therefore you should trust most of them, and therefore surely no one who is involved in education with children in our country would be opposed to the idea that for title I children, for poor children, there will be certain core requirements which will be the essence of accountability. 
   How can you be opposed to it? I don't know of any Governor or any school board member who would say, ``Senator WELLSTONE, we don't want to live by the standard of making sure that our teachers are highly trained for title I children. Senator WELLSTONE, we don't want to live by the standard that there should be high standards for these children. Senator WELLSTONE, we don't want to have to give special help to kids who are falling behind.'' 
   What are you afraid of? Why is there not support for this amendment? This amendment, in a slightly fuller version, received about 45 votes last time. I am hoping, now that I have sort of refined this amendment and narrowed the scope, that it will receive a majority vote. Because if this amendment does not pass, this piece of legislation, I want to say to people in the country, this will not be a step forward. This piece of legislation is not a step forward for several reasons. 
   Let me just make one point that I made earlier as well, that right now, with title I, we are spending about $8 billion a year, and depending on who you listen to--whether it is the Congressional Research Service or whether it is Rand Corporation--this program is severely underfunded. In my State of Minnesota, when I meet with school district officials, especially in our urban communities, they tell me, ``PAUL, what happens is we get money for schools with 65 or 75 percent poverty''--my amendment says schools with 75 percent poverty population should have first priority; that passed; I am glad it did--``but then we run out of money.'' 
   If we are serious about helping these kids, we ought to be providing the funding to our school districts so they can provide the support to the children who are behind. Many of our schools all across the country scream at us and tell us: ``Because you haven't provided us with the resources, we can only help half the students,'' or a third of the students. So if we want to do something significant, we ought to provide the funding. 
   What we certainly should not do is turn our backs to what was so important about title I as a part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. What was so important about title I--this is a big Federal program; this is a Federal program that 
   matters to K-12. What was so important was, we knew way back in 1965 and we know today that we as a National Government, we have a responsibility to make sure there are certain standards which apply to the education that poor children receive, and so we made sure there were certain standards, certain core requirements, which would be part of accountability. We would say that every school district in the land and every school in the land which was serving title I children would never be able to violate these core requirements. That is what we as a Congress were doing for poor children. We were for school districts having flexibility. We are for school districts having flexibility. 
   However, this piece of legislation strips away the most important accountability feature to title I. This piece of legislation does not any longer give these children the protection. This piece of legislation, therefore, in its present form, is not a step forward, it is a great leap backward. I am surprised there is not more opposition. 
   I know it is called Ed-Flex. Great title. I know everybody can say this is what the Governors want and we just sort of give all the decisionmaking power to the States. Politically, it seems to be a winning argument. Maybe I am the only one in the U.S. Senate who feels this way. I am for flexibility and I am for some of these other amendments that deal with smaller class size and rebuilding crumbling schools, and I am for spending a lot more money on education for children that comes out of the President's budget, that is for sure. But as a U.S. Senator, I will not be on the floor of the U.S. Senate and not speak against a piece of legislation which strips away some core protection for poor children that makes sure these children also get a decent education, and that the title I program which deals with these children meets these core requirements.  
   For any other Senator to say this amendment guts Ed-Flex troubles me, because I think if everybody thought Ed-Flex was such a good bill, they would want to at least make sure we had this elementary, basic protection for these children. How can we pass this piece of legislation without this accountability? 
   This amendment improves this legislation, Senator JEFFORDS. This amendment makes it a better bill. Without this amendment, we don't have this protection for some of the children in this country. I will oppose it even if I am the only vote in opposition. 
   How much time remains? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I reserve the remainder of my time, assuming that my colleague on the other side who disagreed may want to make some arguments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will, although I say, in the spirit of debate, it would probably be better if I had a chance to get some sense of why there is opposition to this amendment. Then I could maybe respond to that and we could have a little more of a give-and-take discussion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Well, Mr. President, I have an amendment that is similar to the amendment colleagues voted on last time. I have tried to meet some of the objections that were made to that amendment. It now is based literally on sections 114(b) and 115(c) of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. It is the same language which deals with the core requirements of title I and makes it clear that we want to make sure no State is allowed to give any school district an exemption from these core requirements. 
   Again, let me just list these requirements: 
   To provide opportunities for all children to meet challenging achievement levels--the Senator from New Mexico is on the floor, and I will bet he would not object to that. 
   To use effective instructional strategies that give primary consideration to providing extended learning time like an extended school year, before- and after-school, and summer programs; 
   To use learning approaches that meet the needs of historically underserved populations, including girls and women; 
   To address the needs of all children, but particularly the needs of children who are members of the target population through a number of means, including counseling, mentoring, college guidance, and school-to-work services; 
   To provide instruction by highly qualified professional staff; 
   To minimize removing children from the regular classroom during regular school hours; 
   To provide professional development for teachers and teaching assistants to enable all children in the school to meet State student performance standards. 
   I listed the basic requirements on the program as well. 
   I am thinking out loud while I am speaking. Let me try to figure this out. The Chair is a lawyer, and maybe I should be a lawyer at this moment. But it seems to me that this doesn't do any damage to the idea of flexibility. It seems to me that anybody who would argue that this somehow damages Ed-Flexibility, or any State or school district that makes that argument, must have in mind that they want to waive these core requirements. If they want to waive these core requirements--and we are now about to pass a piece of legislation that will enable them to do so--that is what is flawed in this legislation. That is the flaw in this piece of legislation. That is the problem. 
   There is a reason we made these core requirements part of title I, which has been such an important program to low-income children. The reason, I say to the Chair, is that while many school districts in many States have done a great job--and I have seen great work done in Minnesota--the fact of the matter is that sometimes these children fall between the cracks. 
   Sometimes these children's parents, or parent, are the ones without the prestige and clout in the community. Therefore, we want to make sure there is some protection for these children. We want to make sure they receive instruction from highly qualified teachers. We want to make sure that if they fall behind, they get some help. We want to make sure they are asked to meet high standards. 
   I hope somebody is watching this debate. Why in the world is this amendment unacceptable? Why is this amendment unacceptable? Because, I am telling you, if what Ed-Flex is all about is to sort of say, on the part of the Federal Government, we are giving up on this core accountability and, State school districts, you do whatever you want, you don't have to worry about meeting these core requirements that deal with low-income children, I am against it. Do you know something? A lot of Senators should be against it. 
   So, Mr. President, I hope we can go over 50 votes today, and I hope this amendment will pass. If it does, I think it will make this Ed-Flex bill a much better piece of legislation. 
   There is one other thing we should do: Fund it. Fund it. I would say that in all the discussions I have had with people--I hope all of my colleagues have visited schools with title I communities in urban and rural communities. I will tell you, I have heard little discussion about how ``we don't have enough flexibility.'' I have heard a lot of discussion about not having adequate funds. Fund it. 
   Fully fund title I. Then we would be doing something to help these children. Fully fund Head Start, and then we would be doing something to help the children. Fully fund pre-K, preschool, early childhood development, and make child care affordable for families. Then we would be really doing something to help these children. Lower class sizes. Now we are helping these children. Make sure we do something to help children who drop out so that they don't drop out. I say to Senator BINGAMAN, I was told by a judge in Minnesota that there is a higher correlation between high school dropouts and incarceration than between cigarette smoking and lung cancer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will soon yield the floor. 
   I hope there are 100 votes for my amendment, because then I will believe the Ed-Flex bill is a good piece of legislation. Without this amendment, you don't have the accountability. You have given up on the Federal role of protecting poor children. That is a huge mistake. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
   Mr. BINGAMAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, how much time do we have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Madam President, let me, first of all, very briefly explain what this means to Minnesota. I think we on the floor have already gone over what this proposal is. It is $12 billion over 7 years, $7.3 billion over 5 years. It is an initiative to enable our school districts to reduce class sizes, grades 1 through 3, to an average of 18 students. It is an additional 100,000 teachers. Estimates are that we are going to need to hire 2 million really good teachers over the next 10 years in our country. This is our way, at the Federal Government level, of providing some resources to States and school districts that are sorely needed. 
   Under this proposal, Minnesota would receive $19 million in fiscal year 2000 to support 519 teachers. Minneapolis would receive $2,355,271; St. Paul, $1,761,943; and Anoka-Hennepin, $489,090. This money is sorely needed, and it would be put to great use. 
   I am pleased to announce that this comes as a complement to what the Ventura administration is planning on doing, which is to provide $150 million in the next 2 years to reduce class sizes in kindergarten through third grade, with the goal of having no more than 17 students per classroom. 
   Let me say to my colleague from New Hampshire that in Minnesota, at least, I do not think you are going to get any argument whatsoever that the Federal Government ought to do a better job of providing money for special ed children. There is no question about it, the IDEA program is a great idea. We want children with special needs to be in our schools. We want them to get the best education possible. 
   What troubles me is two things. No. 1, what troubles me is this sort of playing off one group of children against another group of children. I will say right now that in the State of Minnesota, we have also made it a goal to try to reduce class size because we know--I try to be in the schools about every 2 weeks--that there are a couple of things for sure that work. One of them is to make sure that we have the parents involved, and one of them is to make sure that children come to kindergarten ready to learn. We are not there as a Nation. 
   One of them is smaller class size. At the elementary school level, it makes a huge difference. It makes a huge difference, I say to my colleague from Washington, at the middle school level, at the junior high school level, and at the high school level. So why are we  talking about these proposals as if it is one versus the other? 
   I say to my colleagues that what disappoints me the most is that the evidence is crystal clear. Let me just lay this out as I talk about this. Project STAR studied 7,000 students in 80 schools in Tennessee. Students in small classes perform better than students in large classes in each grade from kindergarten through eighth grade. In Wisconsin, the Student Achievement Guarantee in Education Program is helping to reduce class size in grades K through 12 in low-income communities; again, showing significant improvement in reading, math, and language tests. In Flint, MI, efforts over the last 3 years to reduce class size in grades K through 3 have produced a 44-percent increase in reading scores and an 18-percent increase in math scores. 
   The research shows that it makes a huge difference. When we talk to the teachers, they tell us it makes a huge difference. When I am in schools and I ask students, ``What do you think represents real education reform?'' the first thing they talk about is reducing class size. They say, ``Smaller classes.'' I ask them, ``Why would smaller classes make a big difference?'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, I ask for an additional 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Madam President, why would smaller classes make a difference? Students go on and they say, ``Well, because with smaller classes, we might get more of a chance to interact with our teachers. If we need special help, we get the help from our teachers. The teachers get to know us better as individuals. We establish more rapport with our teachers.'' 
   I say to my colleagues, there is not an educator in the country who doesn't believe that we ought to try to reduce our class size. I say it would be better to have classes no larger than 15 students at the elementary school level. 
   Senator MURRAY and Senator KENNEDY bring an amendment to the floor. What we are saying--I think all of my colleagues know my views about the Ed-Flex bill; I won't go over my views again--today is, if we are going to be talking about education and we are going to pass a piece of legislation, then we bring to the floor a good-faith, positive effort, which will make a huge difference. 
   Again, in Minnesota, hardly any student I have ever talked to said, ``Please, Senator, we want you to support Ed-Flex.'' They do not even know what it means. Then if I were to tell them about the debate about title I, personally I think most of the students would say, ``We are all for flexibility by way of giving the school districts the discretion to do more on community outreach, if that is what they want to do, or more on teacher assistance, if that is what they want to do, or more on special instruction, if that is what they want to do, but certainly, Senator, we want to keep the basic standards in place.'' I think most students would agree with that. Most students do not know this debate. What the students and the teachers and the parents and the people in the community who care fiercely about education tell all of us is, ``Here is something you can do.'' 
   In Minnesota, I do not always agree with the Ventura administration on issues. They did a good job in their budget. They made it a priority to reduce class size. I think that what Minnesota would say is, ``Listen, some additional resources that enable us to do this job, we are all for it.'' 
   For some reason, I guess my colleagues do not want to let us have an up-or-down vote on this amendment, I say to Senator MURRAY; is that correct? I want to try to stay at as high a level as possible, but I guess I say to the majority leader that I am surprised he is surprised that Democrats on an education bill would come to the floor with an amendment that Senator MURRAY has now presented to reduce class size. It is amazing to me. 
   Now we are not going to have an up-or-down vote? My colleague, the Senator from Vermont, who is an education Senator, knows that this is an important initiative and knows that we have an education bill out on the floor, that we are going to have this debate, and we are going to have this amendment. Apparently, we are going to have no vote. 
   I do not like saying this, but I will: From my point of view, if this piece of legislation goes nowhere, the Ed-Flex bill, that is fine. I do not think it is a step forward; I think it is a great leap backwards. I am saddened by the fact that, for some reason--and this reminds me too much of the last Congress--it looks to me like the majority leader and the Republican majority have made the strategic decision that we will not be allowed to have amendments on the floor, debate, and up-or-down votes so all Senators are held accountable about education. You cannot dance at two weddings at the same time. You cannot say you are for education, education, education, you are for children, children, children, and then say, when Senator MURRAY and Senator KENNEDY and some of the rest of us come out here on the floor of the Senate with an amendment to reduce class size, that you won't even let us vote on it. This isn't going to work. 
   This isn't going to work, because one of the best things we can do is to provide some additional resources so that our school districts can reduce class size and, at least at the elementary school level, our teachers can do better by our students, our parents can do better by our students. 
   I come to the floor of the U.S. Senate to speak on behalf of this amendment. I come to the floor of the U.S. Senate with a mixed mind. On the one hand, to use ``Fiddler on the Roof,'' I am not disappointed that the majority leader is blocking Senators from offering amendments, because I think it is going to mean this bill is going to go nowhere, and I think that will be better for the country. 
   On the other hand, I am really saddened by it and outraged by it because I think this amendment to reduce class size is real. This is real stuff. This makes a little bit of a difference. I would rather we do even more on this. 
   So with all due respect, I think it is a shame. I think my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are making a huge mistake in trying to block a debate, in trying to block a vote, in trying to block an effort to reduce class size. And if it is blocked on this bill, I assume this amendment will come up over and over and over again, and all of us will be out here talking about it on other pieces of legislation. And we will be talking about pre-K, and we will be talking about rebuilding crumbling schools, and we will be talking about support services for kids at a very early age, and we will be talking about a whole lot of other things that lead to an improvement in the quality of education for our children. 
   I say to my Republican colleagues, you are not going to gag us on this. You are not going to silence us on this. We are going to have debates about education on the floor of the U.S. Senate. This is just the beginning. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. JEFFORDS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Ben Highton and Elizabeth Kuoppala be allowed to be on the floor during the duration of the debate on Ed-Flex. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me, first of all, explain to my colleagues and for those in the country who are going to now be focusing on this bill, the Ed-Flex bill, why I started out yesterday speaking in opposition to this motion to proceed and why I will be taking several hours today to express my opposition to this piece of legislation. There are a number of different things I am going to cover, but at the very beginning I would like to spell out what I think is the fundamental flaw to this legislation, the Ed-Flex bill. Frankly, I think my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, would have had an opportunity to carefully examine this legislation if we had a hearing, I mean a thorough hearing, or if we had waited to really examine in some detail and some depth what has happened in the different Ed-Flex States. 
   The General Accounting Office gives us a report in which they say it looks like some good work has been done, but we don't really have a full and complete understanding of what has happened in these Ed-Flex States. I think what this piece of legislation, called Ed-Flex--and I grant it is a great title, and I grant it is a winning political argument to say let's give the flexibility to the States and let's get the Federal Government out of this--but what this piece of legislation is essentially saying is that we, as a national community, we as a National Government, we as a Federal Government representing the people in our country, no longer are going to maintain our commitment to poor children in America. That is what this is all about. 
   What this piece of legislation essentially says to States and to school districts is: Look, when it comes to the core requirements of title I, core requirements that have to do with qualified teachers, that have to do with high standards for students, that have to do with students meeting those standards and there being a measurement and some result and some evaluation, these standards no longer necessarily will apply. What this legislation says is, when it comes to what the title I mission has been all about, for poor children in America--that is to say that we want to make sure that the money, first and foremost, goes to the neediest schools--that standard no longer will necessarily apply. 
   As a matter of fact, in 1994, one of the things that we did in the Elementary/Secondary Education Act reauthorization was we sought to concentrate title I funds by requiring districts to spend title I on schools with over 75 percent poverty-stricken students first. That restriction has had the desired effect. Only 79 percent of schools with over 75 percent poverty received title I funds in 1994. Today, over 95 percent of those schools receive it. 
   So, Mr. President--and I want to make it clear that I will have an amendment--one of the amendments that I will have to this piece of legislation, if we proceed with this legislation, is an amendment that says that the funding has to first go to schools that have a 75 percent or more low-income student population. 
   I cannot believe my colleagues are going to vote against that. If they want to, let them. But if they do, they will have proved my point--that we are now about to pass a piece of legislation or a good many Republicans and, I am sorry to say, Democrats may pass a piece of legislation that will no longer provide the kind of guarantee that in the allocation of title I funds for poor children that the neediest schools will get served first. I cannot believe that we are about to do that. I cannot believe this rush to recklessness. I cannot believe the way people have just jammed this bill on to the floor of the Senate. I cannot believe that there isn't more opposition from Democrats. 
   Mr. President, the second amendment that I am going to have, which I think will really speak to whether or not people are serious about flexibility with accountability, is an amendment which essentially says, look, here are the core requirements of title I.  
   The reason we passed title I as a part of the Elementary/Secondary Education Act back in 1965--that was almost 35 years ago--the reason we passed title I was we understood, as a nation, whether or not my colleagues want to admit to this or not, that in too many States poor children and their families who were not the big givers, who were not the heavy hitters, who do not make the big contributions were falling between the cracks. 
   So we said that, as a nation, we would make a commitment to making sure that there were certain core requirements that all States had to live up to to make sure that these children received some help. Thus, the core requirements of title I: Make sure they are qualified teachers; make sure low-income students are held to high standards; make sure there is a clear measurement of results. 
   Let me just read actually some of the provisions that would be tossed aside by Ed-Flex in its present form: the requirement that title I students be taught by a highly qualified professional staff; the requirement that States set high standards for all children; the requirement that States provide funding to lowest-income schools first; the requirement that States hold schools accountable for making substantial annual progress toward getting all students, particularly low-income and limited-English-proficient students, to meet high standards; the requirement that funded vocational programs provide broad education and work experience rather than narrow job training. 
   These are the core requirements. I will have an amendment that will say that every State and every school district receiving title I funding will be required to meet those 
   requirements, will be called upon to meet those requirements. 
   Mr. President, right now this legislation throws all of those core requirements overboard. This legislation represents not a step forward for poor children in America; it represents a great leap backwards. This piece of legislation turns the clock back 35 years. It comes to the floor of the Senate without a full hearing in committee; it comes to the floor of the Senate without any opportunity to see any report with a thorough evaluation of what those Ed-Flex States have done; it comes to the floor of the Senate with the claim being made that Ed-Flex represents a huge step forward for education and for the education of poor children in America. It is absolutely ridiculous. 
   I will talk over the next couple of hours about what we could be doing and should be doing for children if we are real. This piece of legislation does not lead to any additional opportunities for low-income children. This piece of legislation does not dramatically increase the chances that they will do well in school. This piece of legislation does absolutely nothing by way of making sure that we have justice for poor children in America. 
   To the contrary, this piece of legislation does not call for--and I am pretty sure that it will not happen, although I will have legislation that will try to make it happen--for an additional expenditure of funds for title I programs. This piece of legislation does nothing for the schools in St. Paul and Minneapolis that have over 50 percent low-income students and still don't receive any money whatsoever because there isn't enough money and there aren't enough resources that are going to our school districts. 
   This piece of legislation does nothing to make sure children, when they come to kindergarten, are ready to learn, that they know how to spell their names, that they know the alphabet, that they know colors and shapes and sizes, that they have been read to widely, that they have been intellectually challenged. This piece of legislation does nothing to assure that will happen. This piece of legislation does not do anything to dramatically improve the quality of children's lives before they go to school and when they go home from school. And I want to talk about that as well. 
   I will tell you what this piece of legislation does. This piece of legislation says, we, as the U.S. Senate, are no longer going to worry about whether States and school districts live by the core requirements of title I. We are just going to give you the money and say, Do what you want to do. What this piece of legislation says is we are no longer going to worry about whether or not States and school districts provide funding first to those schools with a 75 percent or more low-income student population, the neediest schools. We are just going to say, Do what you want. And this is being passed off as something positive for poor children in America? 
   Again, I will have two amendments--I will have a number of amendments, quite a few amendments--but two amendments that I think are going to be critical by way of sort of testing out whether or not we are talking about accountability or not: One, an amendment that says, again, the allocation of funding by States and school districts means that those schools that have 75 percent or more low-income students get first priority, and, second of all, an amendment that says, here are the core requirements of title I. This is what has made title I a 
   successful program. And this is fenced off, and in no way, shape or form will any State or any school district be exempt from these core requirements. 
   Why would any State or school district in the United States of America not want to live up to the requirements that we have highly qualified teachers, that we hold the students to high standards, that we measure the results, and we report the results? 
   Mr. President, before talking more about title I, let me talk a little bit about context. And it is interesting. I am going to do this with some indignation. And I want to challenge my colleagues. I want to challenge my colleagues not in a hateful way, but I certainly want to challenge my colleagues. 
   We are a rich country. Our economy is humming along. We are at peak economic performance. But fully 35 million Americans are hungry or at risk of hunger. Every year, 26 million Americans, many of them children, go to food banks for sustenance. 
   Last year, the requests for emergency food assistance rose 16 percent. Many of those requests were unanswered. I would like for everyone to listen to this story. A Minnesota teacher asked his class, ``How many of you ate breakfast this morning?'' As he expected, only a few children raised their hands. So he continued, ``How many of you skipped breakfast this morning because you don't like breakfast?'' 
   Lots of hands went up. And how many of you skipped breakfast because you didn't have time for it? Many other hands went up. He was pretty sure by then why the remaining children hadn't eaten, but he didn't want to ask them about being poor, so he asked, How many of you skipped breakfast because your family doesn't usually eat breakfast? A few more hands were raised. Finally, he noticed a small boy in the middle of the classroom whose hand had not gone up. Thinking the boy hadn't understood, he asked, And why didn't you eat breakfast this morning? The boy replied, his face serious, ``It wasn't my turn.'' 
   Do you want to do something for children and education of poor children? Don't eliminate standards and accountability with title I. Make sure those children don't go hungry. The U.S. Senate, 2 years ago, put into effect a 20-percent cut in the Food Stamp Program, which is the single most important safety net nutritional program for children in America, and my colleagues have the nerve to come out here with something called Ed-Flex and make the claim that this is going to do all these great things for poor children in America. 
   Let me repeat it: We have entirely too many children that are not only poor but hungry in America. We put into effect 2 years ago a 20-percent cut which will take effect 2002 in food stamp assistance, which by all accounts is the single most important safety net program to make sure that children don't go hungry. I will have an amendment to restore that funding before this session is out. 
   Children don't do real well in school when they are hungry. They don't do real well in school when they haven't eaten breakfast. If we want to help those children, this is the kind of thing we ought to do to make sure that these low-income 
   families have the resources so that they can at least put food on the table. I can't believe that in the United States of America today, as  rich a country as we are, we can't at least do that. 
   Instead, we have something called Ed-Flex. For all of the families with all of the hungry children, for all of the children that are poor in America--a quarter of all children under the age of 3 are growing up poor in America; 50 percent of all children of color under the age of 3 are growing up poor in America--Ed-Flex doesn't mean anything. Ed-Flex means absolutely nothing. 
   The New York Times told the story of Anna Nunez and of hundreds of thousands of families like her. Up a narrow stairway, between a pawn shop and a Dominican restaurant, Anna Nunez and her three children live in a single, illegal room that suffocates their dreams of a future. It is a $350-a-month rectangle with no sink and no toilet, that throbs at night with the restaurant's music. Ms. Nunez' teenagers, Kenny and Wanda, split a bunk bed, while she squeezes into a single bed with little Katrina, a pudgy 4-year-old with tight braids. Out of the door and down the linoleum-lined hallway is the tiny bathroom they share with five strangers. 
   Last winter, tuberculosis traveled from Kenny to his mother and younger sisters in a chain of infection as inevitable as their bickering. Inevitable, too, is the fear of fire: Life in 120 square feet means the gas stove must stand perilously close to their beds. Kenny, at age 18, is a restless young man in a female household. Ask him what bothers him most, and he flatly states that he has the only way to get some privacy--``I close my eyes.'' 
   At night, Anna said, when the mice crawl over us in bed, it feels even more crowded. 
   What should we be doing on the floor of the U.S. Senate if we are really committed to children in America, and if we are committed to poor children in America? We would be making a dramatic investment in affordable housing, which is receiving crisis proportion. But these children and these families are not the ones who march on Washington every day. 
   We want to talk about what will help children in school. If we want to talk about family values, we ought to talk about making sure that these children don't live in rat-infested slum housing, but have some decent shelter. But we don't. Instead, we have Ed-Flex. Ed-Flex will do absolutely nothing for these children. 
   I have a close friend that many staffers know well and I think many Senators know well because of his brilliance and also because he is sort of a perfect example of someone who really lives such an honest life. He treats all of us, regardless of our political viewpoint, with such generosity--Bill Dauster. My friend, Bill Dauster, wrote something which I think applies to this debate:  
   We need to restore the family values that put our children first, for if we do not advance the interests of those who will inherit the future of our society, then we have no vision. And if we do not protect the most helpless of our society, then we have no heart. And if we do not support the most innocent of our society, then we have no soul.  
   I think he is absolutely right. 
   Mr. President, I will talk more about the concerns and circumstances in children's lives in a while, but I did want to 
   give some context before returning to title I, and then I am going to develop my arguments about what we should be doing specifically in education. 
   I will say one more time that I find it very interesting that we have a piece of legislation on the floor that purports to be some major step forward for poor children. As a matter of fact, most of the Ed-Flex waiver requests have dealt with title I, which deals with poor children. That is why I am talking about poor children. At the same time, this is the U.S. Congress that not only has no positive agenda to make sure that poor children aren't hungry and therefore able to learn, doesn't have any positive agenda to make sure that poor children live in decent housing and therefore can come to school ready to learn, but actually has cut nutrition programs for children, and now brings a piece of legislation out which, all in the name of flexibility, is supposed to do all of these great things for poor children. 
   Now, let me return to title I. Let me explain my indignation. My indignation about this particular bill goes further than what I have said. Not only does it represent a retreat on the part of the U.S. Senate from a commitment to poor children in America, not only does it represent a retreat from any basic accountability so that the core requirements of title I--I will repeat it one more time--that have to do with highly qualified teachers and high standards and those standards being met--no longer apply if a State or local school district doesn't choose to comply, not only does this piece of legislation abandon what we did in 1994 with positive effect, that is to say some assurance that the money would first go to the neediest schools. In addition to adding insult to injury--I don't even know why this bill is on the floor--to add insult to injury, this piece of legislation does absolutely nothing by way of, not even one word, calling for more funding. 
   I will tell you what people in Minnesota are telling me. I am assuming--but I am not so sure it has happened--I would like to believe that my colleagues who are in such a rush to pass this piece of legislation have spent a lot of time with principals and teachers and teacher assistants who are working with the title I program. I have to believe that. Well, if you have, I want to find out--when we get into debate, I would like for my colleagues to identify for me a specific statute in title I right now that is an impediment to reform. Tell me what exactly we are talking about. 
   I will tell you what I hear from people in Minnesota. They are not worried about flexibility. What they are worried about is, they don't have enough money. What we hear from those men and women who are working with poor children in the title I program is, ``We don't have enough resources.'' That is what they are telling us. In that sense, this particular piece of legislation is a bit disingenuous. We talk about flexibility, that is the sort of slogan here, but we don't provide any additional resources. 
   Examples: St. Paul. I talked about some of this yesterday, but I think it is well worth presenting this data. There are 20 schools altogether--there are 60 K-through-12 public schools in St. Paul, MN. There are 20 schools in St. Paul with at least a 50 percent free and reduced lunch--that is the way we define low-income--that receive no title I funds at all--one-third of the schools. 
   Let's talk about urban schools. I would like to ask my colleagues, have you been in the urban schools? Did the principals and the teachers and the families in these urban schools--was the thing they were saying to you over and over 
   again, ``We need to have Ed-Flexibility''? Or were they saying, ``We need more resources to work with these children''? What were they saying to you? I will tell you what they were saying to me: ``We don't have the resources.'' One-third of St. Paul's schools have significant poverty, a low-income student body, and receive no title I funds to eliminate the learning gap. At Humboldt Senior High School, on the west side of St. Paul, 68 percent of the students are low-income; no title I funding. I visited the school. I try to be in a school about every 2 weeks. 
   For those listening to the debate--and I am taking this time because I want to slow this up. I want people in the country, and journalists, people who cover this or who write and cover it--so people in the country will know what is going on. I can be put in parentheses and keep me out of it, but I want the people to know what is going on. I don't think legislation like this that has the potential of doing such harm to low-income children should zoom through the U.S. Senate. 
   As I say, at Humboldt Senior High 68 percent of the students are on free and reduced lunch; no title I. So the question is, How can that be? The answer is that in Minnesota, altogether, this year, we had $96 million for title 1 programs. We can use double that amount of funding, triple that amount of funding. What happens is that after we allocate the money in St. Paul to the schools that have an even higher percentage of low-income students, there is no funding left. And we have Ed-Flex that is such a ``great response'' to the challenges facing these families and these children, which isn't even talking about providing more funding. 
   My prediction is that, come appropriations, don't count on it. Don't count on it. It won't happen, though some of us will fight like heck to try to make it happen.  
   Several middle schools receive no title I funding. Battle Creek Middle School has 77 percent low-income students and no title I funds. 
   By the way, I argue that I have often believed--since I have some time here today, I can go a little slower--I have often believed that the elementary school teachers just do God's work. I think it starts there. I was a college teacher, but I know that elementary school teaching is more important; I am sure of it. If I had to do it over again, I think I would have been an elementary school teacher, if I could be creative enough. I was a wrestling coach, but I would have liked to teach elementary school. I did coach the junior high school wrestling team in Northfield. Those are difficult years. I think any kind of support we can give kids who are middle school or junior high school age, we ought to do so. 
   What is the kind of support we can do with title I? It is a good program. That is why I am on the floor. This is a good thing we did in 1965. This was a good thing we did in reauthorization in 1994. It means there are more teacher assistants, more one-on-one instruction, more community outreach, and more parental involvement. It is not easy because a lot of not such beautiful things are happening in the lives of many children in America today. I know that. I am in the communities. But this makes a difference. I will tell you, we could do a lot at Battle Creek Middle School if we had the funding. Frost Lake Elementary School has 66 percent low-income children and no title I funding. 
   So can I ask this question: What exactly are these schools 
   going to be flexible with? Are they going to be flexible with zero dollars? What are they going to get to be flexible about? Do they get to choose between zero and zero? Is that the flexibility? Let's get real. Let's get real. The U.S. Congress, a couple years ago--because it is so easy to bash the poor--cut the Food Stamp Program by 20 percent. We have done next to nothing by way of pre-K. That is where the Federal Government is a real player in education. I will talk about that in a moment. We have done next to nothing by way of getting resources to families so there could be decent child care. And we are not talking about increasing the funding for title I, but we are talking about flexibility. 
   Some other schools: Eastern Heights Elementary, 64 percent low-income, no title 1. Mississippi Magnet School, 67 percent low-income students and no title I. They get to be flexible between zero and zero. They get to choose how to spend no money. They get to imagine and dream. But do you want to know something? They need to do more than that. I am not going to let this piece of legislation go through this floor like this. I am sure some of my colleagues will be angry, but I am not going to let this zoom through the Senate without a lot of discussion. I want people to know exactly what it is. 
   Now, it could be--I have to be careful because it could be that people say: Well, you know what, all right, case made; we know what it doesn't do; but, nevertheless, in terms of what it tries to do, let's have more flexibility. These are two different things. I don't, first of all, want this to go through as the ``big education initiative.'' It is not. It is not. I don't want this piece of legislation to go through as the sort of legislation that represents the ``bold response'' on the part of the United States of America to the concerns and circumstances of poor children. It is not. And I certainly don't want this piece of legislation to go through with the slogan of ``flexibility,'' unless we have real accountability. 
   When we get to our amendments, I will have an amendment on accountability. I know Senator KENNEDY will have an amendment on accountability. I know that Senator REID will have an amendment on accountability. We will see if people are ``real'' about that. 
   By the way, what I hear from the St. Paul School District is that if they had another $8 million in title I funding, they would use it to reduce class size. They would use it to increase parental involvement. They would use it to hire additional staff to work with students with greatest needs. There are a lot of ways they could use it. But we are not providing for the funding that they need. This is one of the things that I just hate about this vicious zero sum game, especially in greater Minnesota, which is rural. Here is what happens. 
   Don't anyone believe I am giving only urban examples somehow about the problem of children that need additional support. The whole goal of getting it right for all the kids in our country is not just an urban issue. It is suburban, and it is rural. But see, here is what happens when we don't provide enough funding. I don't know why we don't call this an unfunded mandate. It may not technically be, but in many ways it is. 
   We talk a lot about IDEA. We should. I say to the Chair, who is a former Governor, that the Governors make a good point. And I am in complete agreement that we ought to, when it comes to children with special needs, be providing for funding. I don't know why we don't talk about this, because you know what happens, I say to my colleague from Vermont. There is strong rural community as well in Vermont. What happens is that in those schools in the rural areas where maybe there is a 35 percent, low-income, or 30 or 20 percent, they say, ``Listen. We need some funding.'' But we get into this zero sum game with not enough funding. It gets divided up in such a way that it makes sense that the funding goes first to the neediest schools. And there isn't any. And there isn't any. 
   Minneapolis--this is just looking at estimates for next year. K through 12 schools in Minneapolis: 31 schools will receive no title I funds; 14 schools with at least 50 percent free and reduced lunch recipients will receive no title I; 14 schools that have 50 percent low-income student population will receive no title I funding. Burroughs Elementary School, 43 percent low-income, no title I funding. The school would be eligible, if we had funding. 
   For almost $100,000 in title I next year, they would use the money to buy computers for special reading software, additional assistance in reading and math, work for students in small groups, and to close the achievement gap. But they can't do it. We are going to give them Ed-Flex. We are going to give them Ed-Flex. Anthony Elementary School, 43 percent free and reduced lunch, again, the operational definition of low-income, receive no title I. The school would be eligible if we got funding we needed--$154,000 next year--and they would use the money for afterschool tutoring, that is what we should be doing, if we are ``real.'' We will have an amendment on that before this debate is all over. 
   They would use the money for afterschool tutoring to improve math and science, to improve technology, to increase staffing, and to improve parental involvement. 
   Marcy Open Elementary School, 44 percent low-income, they are going to lose their educational assistance if they don't get the funding they need. Kenny Elementary School, 39 percent low-income, no title 1. If they were going to get the funding that they deserve, they would have about another $9,000 that they would be eligible for, and they would use that to hire tutors who are trained to tutor small group instruction, to buy certain computer-assistance instruction, to make the Read Naturally Program available to more students, and to focus on students who are English language learners. I think this whole issue of students who are English language learners is the key issue here. 
   One of the things that is so unconscionable to me about all of this and the way we give title 1 the short end of the stick is that we have a lot of students right now who are from families--Minneapolis, MN--I think I am right. Don't hold me to these figures. But, roughly speaking, in Minneapolis students come from families where there are 90 languages and dialects spoken. That is Minneapolis, MN. That is not New York City. In St. Paul, it is about 70 languages and dialects spoken. It is not uncommon. I remember being in a Jackson Elementary School meeting with fourth grade students, and there were five different languages spoken in that class of 25 or 30. For a lot of those students, they need additional help. We know why. That is a big challenge. 
   Title I really helps if the funding is there. But we are not talking about--I haven't heard any Republican colleagues talking about dramatically increasing the funding for title I. I haven't heard the President talk about it. He has talked about $110 billion  more for the Pentagon over the next 6 years, and $12.5 billion next year. And the President of the United States, a Democrat, says education is his highest priority, and 
   he doesn't even call for an additional $2 billion for education for the whole Nation. You would think that he would call for as big of an increase, I say to my colleague from Vermont, for the Education Department and education as he would for the Pentagon, if education was his No. 1 priority. I think that is part of the problem. I think the White House has absolutely caved on this issue. I cannot believe their silence. I cannot believe it. 
   Mr. President, I would like to talk a little bit about some success of title I. I think I read a couple of these letters last night. But I think it is worth talking about again. 
   Let me start with Annastacia Belladonna Maldonado from the Minneapolis Chicano-Latino Council who says:  
   I am very concerned about the hurried fashion in which Congress is handling S. 280. Given that ESEA is up for reapproval, it seems reasonable, more appropriate, and certainly a more dramatic way of addressing issues and concerns that Ed-Flex has written. At the very least I would expect a series of responsible considerations of all aspects of S. 280 be addressed by the committee before proceeding to an open debate.  
   Well, it is too late. We are on the floor. Secretary Riley, who I personally think is probably the gentlest and kindest person in government--I can't fault him for his commitment to education. I can't fault him for his courage as Governor of South Carolina who called for an increase in taxes to fund public education. He came to our committee, I say to my colleague from Vermont, a couple of weeks ago, and he said we believe that since title I represents really a big part of what the Federal Government does here, we would prefer that when you go through your reauthorization of the Elementary Secondary Education Act, that you put off this Ed-Flex legislation, which has such huge consequences, until then. But we didn't. While I appreciated the words of Secretary Riley, I don't see a lot of fight on the part of the administration on this question. 
   A constituent of mine, Vicki Turner, says:  
   The title I program of the Minneapolis public schools provided not only help for my two children, but the parental involvement program was crucial in helping me develop as an individual parent and now a teacher for the program.  
   Gretchen Carlson Collins, title I director of Hopkins School District, a suburb of Minneapolis, says:  
   There is no better program in education than title I, of the ESEA. We know it works.  
   She didn't say, ``Oh. We are just strangled with regulations. It doesn't work.'' In fact, I haven't heard that. I haven't had people in Minnesota say this is the statute that has been changed. As a matter of fact, I would say to my colleagues, if there is something right now in the title I statute that is an impediment to the kind of steps we need to take to improve educational opportunities for low-income children, please identify it, and then we will change it. But what you want to do is throw out all of the accountability. 
   You want to basically have the Federal Government, which represents the Nation, a national community, you want us to remove ourselves from any kind of protection for these low-income children. You want to say that the very core requirements that have made title I so important and so positive in the lives of children, albeit we have enough funding, we no longer will require that States and the school districts live up to these requirements. That is what you want to do. That is not acceptable. I don't care if you call it ``Ed-Flexability.'' I don't care if you have all of the political arguments, 10-second sound bites down pat. Give the power back to the States, get the Federal Government out, get rid of all of the Washington rules and regulations. 
   You can say that over and over and over again, and I will tell you, even though some of you won't like it, that I am all for flexibility. I was a community organizer. I am all for people at the local level making a lot of the decisions in terms of how they design programs and what they do. But I will tell you something else. There is a whole history of all too many States not making poor children and their families top priorities when it comes to commitment. 
   I am not about to let this piece of legislation just fly through here without pointing out what we are doing, which is we are abandoning a 35-year-old commitment on the part of the Federal Government that we will at least have some minimal standard that will guarantee some protection that poor children will get the assistance they need in the United States of America. 
   That is what this legislation does. And this legislation could be different legislation if strong accountability measures were passed--strong, not wishy-washy language. And we will see. We will see, because I am, again, all for the flexibility part, but I am not for abandoning this commitment to low-income children in the country. 
   John and Helen Matson say:  
   How could anyone question the need for a strong ESEA? Ed-Flex waivers are an invitation to undermine the quality of public schools.  
   That is an e-mail I received. 
   High school senior Tammie Jeanelle Joby was in Title I in third grade. She says:  
   Title I has helped make me the hard-working student that I am. My future plan after high school is to attend St. Scholastica--  
   Which is a really wonderful college in Duluth, MN--  
   I may specialize in special education or kindergarten.  
   And I think that is great. 
   Then here is something from Claudi Fuentes from the Minnesota Urban Coalition. He opposes Ed-Flex. And you know what he says instead: ``Focus on all day, every day kindergarten.'' 
   People in the communities, they have the wisdom. I will come back to some of their wisdom a little while later, but it is pretty interesting. The whole idea of Ed-Flex is let's get it back to the local communities. You know what. Why don't we listen to people in the local communities? 
   Did we spend any time, I would love to find out--I can't wait for the debate. Here is the question I am going to ask of the authors of the legislation: How much time did you spend with low-income parents? How many meetings did you have with the parents? How many meetings did you have with the children? How many meetings did you have in communities with those students and those families who are going to be most affected by this legislation? I will be very interested in hearing the answer. I will be very interested in what they say because, frankly, I don't even hear anybody talking about it. When I go into cafes in Minnesota, nobody comes up to me and says, Are you for or against Ed-Flex? They don't even know what it is. They will tell me that I am a single parent or we are two parents and we have an income of $30,000 a year and we can't afford child care. Child care costs us as much as college tuition now. Can anything be done about that? 
   They will say what about a tax credit? How about we pass today a refundable $2,000-a-year tax credit for child care, for families with incomes up to $50,000 a year? Why don't we do something real? 
   That is what people talk about. Or they talk about--and I will talk about early childhood development in a moment--or they talk about working and their kids are home after school and they are very worried and what about afterschool care? Can something be done by way of providing some adults to look after our kids when school is over because we are both working? 
   Or they will talk about how their daughter has a really--she has an abscessed tooth, and I don't have any dental care; we can't afford it, and she goes to school in pain. She can't learn when she is in pain. 
   The language is very concrete. I don't hear community people--as long as we are saying the case for Ed-Flex is to decentralize, I don't hear community people saying it. Sometimes I think Washington, DC, is the only city I have ever lived in where when the Governors come to town everybody says, The grassroots is here; let's hear from the grassroots. I have never lived anywhere else where that happens. ``The Governors represent the grassroots of America.'' 
   Well, I would suggest to you, since most of what Ed-Flex is really about is waivers and title I, that grassroots goes down to a little bit lower level. It goes to the community level and starts with the children and the parents who  will be affected by what we do or by what we don't do. 
   Mr. President, let me talk about what would make a difference as opposed to this piece of legislation, which represents at best a great leap sideways and at worst a great leap backwards. And let me talk about equity in education, which is just another way of talking about the kind of inequality that exists right now. Let me talk about learning gaps. 
   And by the way, I don't have any evidence of this. A friend of mine, Colin Greer, who is head of the New World Foundation, told me--I think Senator JEFFORDS would be interested in this. I haven't seen the data. It would be interesting. I think this is what Colin said. He said that actually the United States of America measures up well against any other country in terms of our educational attainment, educational tests if you take title I students and put them in parenthesis for a moment. In other words, the learning gap is essentially, these are issues of race and gender and poverty in children. That is really what the learning gap is about. These are the kids who come to school behind and fall further behind. 
   So let me talk about the learning gaps. They are prevalent at all education levels. In general, the poor and minorities do worse on just about any measurement of achievement, be it the Federal Government's national assessment of educational progress or real-world outcomes like high school and college graduation rates 
   Boy, I hope I didn't read this the right way, but I think I read the other day that in California there are five times as many African American men ages 18 to 26 or 30 in prison than in college. I think I read that the other day, that in California there are five times as many African American men ages 18 to 30 in prison than in college. 
   And, by the way, there is a higher correlation between high school dropout and winding up in prison than between cigarette smoking and lung cancer. So we should be doing everything we can to make sure that kids do well in school and don't drop out. And Senator BINGAMAN will have an amendment that speaks to that. 
   The disparities that we see--if you think that where I am going is blaming the children, no, I am not. Now, let me be clear about this because we have a lot of this going on, too, and I would like to talk a little bit about the White House again. 
   When I say that in any measure of achievement the poor and ``minorities'' fall way behind, I am not now about to engage in blaming those children and blaming those families because a large part of these disparities are caused by unequal educational opportunities. These students have unequal access to key resources that strongly affect their achievement levels. Preparation to begin schools, teacher quality, class size, curriculum content, school infrastructural quality--and I will talk about all of that. Let me just jump ahead now. 
   I am sorry to be speaking with some anger here today. I don't know, maybe the President got it from a poll--you know, be against social promotion. I am a Democrat. Say you are tough on social promotion because everybody says, boy, I tell you what, you are right; those students, they just shouldn't be promoted if they haven't reached an educational attainment. That is just terrible. Well, you know what it is. But here is what is so outrageous about this latest given. 
   You have a White House that sends a budget over here--and I will be talking about it--that does precious little by way of making sure the children come to school ready to learn. We know that is the most critical time. It does absolutely nothing by way of really investing resources in afterschool care. We have this huge disparity that I am about to go into, where all too many kids go to schools where the toilets don't work, where the heating doesn't work, where there is no air conditioning, where the buildings are crumbling, when they are hungry, where there are not enough textbooks, where there aren't computers, where there aren't adequate lab facilities. They don't have the same opportunity to do well. So, now, all in the name of educational rigor--I was a teacher--now what we are going to do is flunk them again. It is outrageous. 
   We don't do anything to make sure that they have the same chance to do well on these tests, but we will give them the tests and flunk them. That's great. These kids come to school way behind, we don't make the investment in the schools, they don't have the same opportunities to learn, and then we give them the tests, and then we say you don't go on. And then, come senior year, we give them another test, and if they don't pass it, then they don't graduate. 
   We failed the students who have been failing. If you don't do anything to make sure that these children have the same chance to do well, then this is just blaming these children. This is cowardly. Why don't you blame the school systems? Why don't you blame the adults? Why don't you blame Senators? Why don't you blame mayors and representatives and school boards? No, you blame the children. 
   By the way, a lot of our educational experts, if anybody wants to listen to them, say: Listen, you know what, we want to do additional one-on-one tutoring, we want to do summer school, we want to do everything we can to help these kids to do well. But if the only thing you are going to do is flunk them, what happens is they will drop out of school. Pretty soon you will have 17-year-olds who will be in, I don't know, 10th grade, 9th grade, they will be flunked 2 or 3 years, and they drop out or they cause trouble for other kids. Not many educational experts are very high on this idea, especially given the tin cup education budget that the President gives to us, with my Republican colleagues probably not even wanting to support that. But we blame the children. 
   Let's talk about what we should be putting the focus on.  
   It is not unusual for economically disadvantaged students in these poor districts to enter school without any preschool experience, to be retained in the early grades without any special help in reading, to attend classes with 30 or more students, to lack counseling and needed social services, to be taught by teachers who are inexperienced and uncertified, and to be exposed to a curriculum in which important courses are not taught and materials are inadequate and outdated.  
   That is Bill Taylor, ``A Report On Shortchanged Children, the Impact of Fiscal Inequity on the Education of Students at Risk,'' U.S. Government Printing Office, 1991. 
   May I repeat this quote? And then I would like to, later on in debate, ask my colleagues how you intend to rectify this through Ed-Flex. 
   There is probably not a more serious and important scholar on this question than Bill Taylor.  
   It is not unusual for economically disadvantaged students in these poor districts to enter school without any preschool experience, to be retained in the early grades without any special help in reading, to attend classes with 30 or more students, to lack counseling and needed social services, to be taught by teachers who are inexperienced and uncertified, and to be exposed to a curriculum in which important courses are not taught and materials are inadequate and outdated.  
   What does Ed-Flex do? What does Ed-Flex do to address any of these disparities? Do you know what the answer is? Nothing. Zero. What is the U.S. Senate doing to address these disparities? Nothing. 
   Mr. President, let me start off--and this is hard to do--by reading excerpts from a book by a man who has probably contributed more to raising the consciousness of people about children in this country than anyone else, Jonathan Kozol. The last thing he wrote was a book called ``Amazing Grace, Poor Children and the Conscience of America.'' It is set in the Mott Haven community in the Bronx. I recommend this book. For all who are listening, I recommend this book, it is so powerful. It is called ``Amazing Grace, Poor Children and the Conscience of America.'' Here is what Jonathan Kozol said. Basically, what he is saying is: No country which truly loved children would ever let children grow up under these conditions. But we do. 
   By the way, I had a chance to meet with these children. The heroine of this book is a woman named Mother Margaret, who is an Episcopalian priest. She has done incredible work with these kids. She came down to D.C., and Jonathan said, ``Would you host the children?'' I said, ``Great. I read the book and I read about the kids.'' They came down here, and I think Jonathan  Kozol thought they would be impressed, meeting in the office, 
   but the only thing they really talked about was the swimming pool in the hotel, and the other thing they talked about was beds. It was a very big deal to them to be able to sleep in a bed. 
   Mr. President, this book is called ``Savage Inequalities.'' Let's just talk about what Ed-Flex does and what it does not do. 
   A 14-year-old girl, with short black curly hair says this:  
   Every year in February we are told to read the same old speech of Martin Luther King. We read it every year. ``I have a dream.'' It does begin to seem, what is the word--she hesitates and then she finds the word--perfunctory. 
   Perfunctory? I asked her what do you mean? 
   We have a school in East St. Louis named for Dr. King, she says. The school is full of sewer water and the doors are locked with chains. Every student in that school is black. It's like a terrible joke on history.  
   It startled Jonathan Kozol to hear her words, but I am startled more to think how seldom any press reporter has noted the irony of naming segregated schools for Martin Luther King. Children reach the heart of these hypocrisies much quicker than the grownups and the experts do. 
   A history teacher at Martin Luther King School has 110 students in 4 classes but only 26 books. What is Ed-Flex going to do for this teacher of these students?  
   Each year, [Kozol observes of East St. Louis High School] there is one more toilet that doesn't flush, one more drinking fountain that doesn't work, one more classroom without texts. Certain classrooms are so cold in the winter that the students have to wear their coats to class while children in other classrooms swelter in a suffocating heat that cannot be turned down.  
   You know, we have all these harsh critics of our public schools. Some of them are my colleagues in the U.S. Senate. They couldn't last 1 hour in the classrooms they condemn. They couldn't last 1 hour in these schools. 
   I am going on to quote the teachers:  
   These kinds of critics willfully ignore the health conditions and the psychological disarray of children growing up in burnt out housing, playing on contaminated land, and walking past acres of smoldering garbage on their way to school.  
   Mr. President, let me go on to read from this book:  
   In order to find Public School 261 in District 10, a visitor is told to look for a mortician's office. The funeral home which faces Jerome Avenue in the North Bronx is easy to identify by its green awning. The school is next door in a former roller skating rink. No sign identifies the building as a school. A metal awning frame without an awning supports a flagpole, but there is no flag. In the street in front of the school, there's an elevated public transit line. Heavy traffic fills the street. The existence of the school is virtually concealed within this crowded city block. Beyond the inner doors, a guard is seated. The lobby is long--  
   And there is a sign, by the way, on the outside of the school: ``All students are capable of learning.''  
   Beyond the inner doors, a guard is seated. The lobby is long and narrow. The ceiling is low. There are no windows. All the teachers that I see at first are middle-aged white women. The principal, also a white woman, tells me that the school's capacity is 900, but there are 1,300 children here. The size of classes for fifth and sixth grade children in New York, she says, is capped at 32, but she says the class size in the school goes up to 24. I see classes as large as 37. Classes for younger children, she goes on, are capped at 25, but a school can go above this limit if it puts an extra adult in the room. Lack of space, she says, prevents the school from operating a prekindergarten program. ``Lunchtime is a challenge for us,'' she explains. ``Limited space obliges us to do it in three shifts, 450 children at a time.'' Textbooks are scarce.  
   And it goes on:  
   The library is tiny, windowless. There are only 700 books. There are no reference books.  
   And it goes on and on and on. These are the conditions of the schools. 
   Let me just read the conclusion. I could go on for an hour from this book. Here is the conclusion where he concludes his book:  
   All our children ought to be allowed a stake in the enormous richness of America. Whether they were born to poor white Appalachians or to wealthy Texans, to poor black people in the Bronx or to rich people in Manhattan or Winnetka, they are all quite wonderful and innocent when they are small. We soil them needlessly.  
   Mr. President, I have tried to develop my case. We are not talking about providing more funding for title I. We talk about abandoning basic core requirements of title I--we are talking about abandoning the Federal Government, holding States and school districts accountable and making sure that the money gets to the neediest schools. We are talking about abandoning the very essence of accountability, that these standards are lived up to to make sure that there are good teachers, to make sure that the kids are held to high standards, to make sure there is testing. 
   And we know the results. We have not done a darn thing to make sure we make a commitment to pre-K so kids come to kindergarten ready to learn. We do not do much by way of afterschool care. We do not have the money, we say. We are a rich country. The economy is booming, but we do not have the money to do any of that? 
   In addition, the reality is that some schoolkids go to schools, because of the property tax, wealth of the school districts, that can give them the best of the best of the best--the best of computers, the best of technology, the best of labs, the best school buildings, the best teachers, the best band and music and theater and athletics, the best of everything. Other kids in America, who come from different school districts, or come from communities where there is not the commitment to them or they do not have the resources to make the commitment, go to schools that are burnt out--I mean, how would any of my colleagues do, as U.S. Senators, if you walked into this Chamber --this is a beautiful Chamber, thank God--how would you do if you walked into this Chamber and it was the summer in DC and there was no air-conditioning or it was winter and there was no heat or we did not have staff to help us, we did not have pages to help us, we weren't able to have the materials we needed, we were hungry, and maybe 20 percent of us had a gun, which is not unusual in a lot of schools in our cities? Would you learn? Would you do well? 
   What kind of message do you think we communicate to children in America when they go to school buildings that are decrepit, where the roofs are leaking, where the toilets do not work, where the buildings are just grim? What kind of atmosphere is that for children? What kind of encouragement do you think we give these children to learn? 
   You think these children are fools? You think these children think that the Ed-Flex program is going to do anything for them? They are a lot smarter than you think they are. They know it is not going to do anything for them, because we are not doing anything for them. As a matter of fact, we are going to pass a piece of legislation, unless there is some strict accountability measures in this bill, amendments that are passed, that is going to do harm to them. That is what we are doing. And I cannot believe that this bill just came to the floor of the Senate and there has been so little opposition. 
   Mr. President, let me talk about some of the inequalities that exist. First of all, the inequality in participation in early childhood programs, like nursery school and prekindergarten: Three-year-olds from better-off families are more than twice as likely than those from less-well-off families to be in these programs, like the nursery school programs and prekindergarten programs. 
   Among 4-year-olds, there remains substantial disparities. Barely half of the children with families of incomes of $35,000 or less have participated in early childhood learning programs compared to three-fourths of the children from families with incomes over $50,000. So if we wanted to do something about this, Mr. President, what we would do is we would make sure that we would invest the resources in early childhood development. 
   I am going to talk about some really shocking statistics in a moment. But let me just say it again--whether it be Arkansas or whether it be Minnesota or whether it be Vermont, the Federal Government--what the education community tells me in Minnesota is you all are real players when it comes to making sure that children can come to kindergarten ready to learn. You could make a real commitment of resources. 
   We have in the President's budget--you know, we have a 
   White House conference on the development of the brain. The evidence is irrefutable, it is irreducible. I am going to talk about it at some length a little later on in my  presentation. But we know that if you do not get it right for these kids by age 3, they may never do well in school and may never do well in life. 
   What is really interesting about the literature that has come out is that--we have always known--we have always known that if a 7-year-old comes to school and she has not received dental care, she is not going to do well. We have always known that if children do not have an adequate diet, they are not going to do well. We have always known if women expecting children do not have a good diet, that at birth that child may have severe disabilities and may not be able to do well. But what we did not know--although I think all of us who are parents and grandparents; I am a grandparent as well--what we did not know is that actually literally the way the brain is wired, and whether or not a child will do well in school, whether or not a child will behave well is highly correlated to whether or not--is my mike working or not? Is the mike working? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my good friend from Arkansas, what is really astounding about this literature is that literally the key part of it is whether or not there is real intellectual stimulation for these children. It isn't a question of whether they have had a proper diet or have been immunized; that has a huge impact on whether they can come to school and do well. 
   Anyone who is a parent or grandparent knows this. I like to tell the story, because it is absolutely true. Our children are older and I had forgotten what it was like. But now we have three grandchildren: 3-year-old Josh; 4-year-old Keith; Kari is 7, she is older. They visit us and every 15 seconds these children are interested in something new. When they are 2 and 1, it is the same way. It is a miracle. It makes me very religious. It is as if these small children are experiencing all the unnamed magic of the world that is before them. 
   We know that if we would make an investment in these children, we make sure that there is good child care, and we make sure when they come to kindergarten they are ready to learn. I will say it again: Our national goal ought to be that every child in the United States of America, when he or she comes to kindergarten, they know how to read, they know how to spell their name, they know the alphabet; if they do not know how to read, they have been read to widely. Can't we make that a national goal? These are all God's children. But the fact of the matter is, we don't. There is a huge disparity. The fact of the matter is that many children, by the time they come to kindergarten, are way behind, and then they fall further behind. And then they wind up in prison. 
   This Ed-Flex bill does absolutely nothing to make a difference for these children. 
   Point 2: Reading levels are not where they need to be. In early February of this year, the National Center for Education Statistics released the 1998 reading report card for the Nation. These results are based on the national assessment of education progress data collected in 1998. These results tell us how our children are doing, what their reading levels are, and whether they need improvement. 
   There are two sets of findings I want to emphasize. First, as a country, too few of our children have the reading skills necessary to succeed. At all grade levels, 40 percent or fewer of the Nation's students read at a level that is proficient for their grade. This figure is unacceptably low. What can we do? 
   Second, and even more disturbing, are the tremendous disparity levels in reading levels by family income, race, and ethnicity. For example, children who are eligible for the free and reduced lunch program, title I or title I-eligible children, are more than twice as likely to be below the basic reading level than those who are not eligible for the program. In addition, fourth- and eighth-grader white students are three times as likely as black students or Hispanic children to be proficient readers. 
   Part of what these figures are telling us--in fact, they are screaming at us--is that we have a long way to go. This is a crisis. 
   Now, may I ask the question: Does Ed-Flex do anything to help these students? Are there additional resources that we are calling on? Are we doing anything to make sure that kids come to school ready to learn? Are we doing anything to improve their nutritional status? We cut nutrition programs for these 
   children. Are we doing anything to make sure each and every one of those children is healthy? Are we doing anything about the housing conditions? Are we doing what we should do to reduce some of the violence in the communities, some of the violence in the homes? Are we doing anything to provide some additional support services for these kids? 
   A woman is beaten up every 15 seconds in her home. Every 15 seconds in the United States of America, a woman is battered in her home. A home should be a safe place. Those children, even if they are not battered themselves--although many are--see it. They essentially suffer from posttraumatic stress syndrome. 
   My colleague from Arkansas works with veterans. I have done a lot of work with Vietnam vets. I see it all the time, PTSS. We have children who suffer from that. Do we have anything in Ed-Flex that talks about additional services to these children? No. The only thing we do in the Ed-Flex bill is essentially wipe out any kind of accountability standard that would make sure the money goes to the neediest schools first, and we wipe out the accountability standards that make sure title I children have good teachers, are held to high standards, that we have testing and results, and we know how we are doing. And this legislation purports to be a step forward for poor children in America? 
   There have been a number of lawsuits filed. It is too bad, but that is the way we have to go to affect these conditions. Since Ed-Flex doesn't have anything to do with the reality I am describing, I think the lawsuits are necessary. Let me cite a lawsuit that came out of Hartford, CT, in the early 1990s. The Hartford School District had a substantially higher percentage of minority students than the surrounding suburbs. The Hartford school enrollment was more than 92 percent minority, whereas contiguous suburbs such as Avon, East Granby, and Wethersfield were less than 5 percent minority. Although Connecticut had the highest per capita in the United States, Hartford was the fourth-poorest of the United States cities, with the second highest rate of poverty among children. 
   At the same time, not surprisingly, the Hartford school system had substantially inferior educational resources than other school systems. Hartford students were shortchanged in a broad range of educational inputs. For example, school systems across the State spent an average of $147.68 per student per year on textbooks and instructional supplies; in Hartford, it was $77 dollars, only 52 percent of the statewide average. 
   Or consider East St. Louis, IL, in 1997. Here are some of the problems that the students in the East St. Louis school system faced: Backed up sewers, flooding school kitchens; faulty boilers and electrical systems, regularly resulting in student evacuations and cancelled classes; dangerous structural flaws, including exposed asbestos; malfunction of fire alarms; and emergency exits that were chained shut; instructor shortages that usually meant students did not know in advance whether or not they even had a teacher; and school libraries that were typically locked or destroyed by fire. 
   How can we expect our children to achieve or be able to learn to develop and realize any, let alone all, of their potential as human beings when faced with such an outrageous environment as this? What does Ed-Flex do to change this environment? Nothing, zero. This is what we ought to be talking about on the floor of the U.S. Senate. That is why I am trying to slow this bill up. 
   Here is a final description from Louisiana, although you can pick any State. In preparing for a lawsuit in Louisiana, the ACLU staff discovered a pitiful lack of the most basic resources. Besides having to deal with leaky roofs and broken desks, students often had to share textbooks among the entire class, negating any possibility of doing homework or building out-  of-class research skills. What few books existed in school libraries were typically torn, damaged, or outdated, a particularly riling problem for subjects like technology, science, and history. At one school, students posing for a class photo in the auditorium had to keep their coats on because of the lack of heat in the building. I repeat that: At one school, students posing for a class photo in the auditorium had to keep their coats on because of the lack of heat in the building. 
   Here is the reaction of one of the staff attorneys. ``It was impossible to imagine that any serious education could go on in these decrepit schools. In some schools children had to go to the principal's office to get toilet papers. The overwhelming impression left on us [the lawyers] was sadness.'' 
   Mr. President, let me talk about Federal standing on elementary and secondary education. Now, I am going to try--some of this is off of the top of my head. These statistics will be close, but they might be off just a little bit. We have had reports, like Nation at Risk in the early 1980s, and we have had politicians of all stripes give speeches about children and education. We all want to have photo opportunities next to children. We have talked about it as a national security issue. 
   Do you want to know something? The percentage of the Federal budget that goes to education is pathetic. It is pathetic. It amounts to about 2.5 percent of total Federal budget outlays--2.5 percent. 
   By the way, on title I, since this Ed-Flex is supposed to represent some great step forward, according to the Rand Corporation study, we would have to double our spending on title I to really even begin to make a difference for these children. I said this earlier and I will say it again. Here is what I am not quite sure of. Then I will tell you what I am absolutely sure of. What I am not quite sure of is, I think that during the sixties--this was where title I became part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--we were at maybe 10 percent that we were devoting as a percentage of the Federal budget to education. That is what we say is a priority. 
   When Richard Nixon was President, it was higher than it is with the Democratic President. And then it was Ford and Carter, and I think it stayed about the same level. With Reagan, it went way down. And then, with President Bush, it went up some. It never got back to the percentage it was during Nixon's Presidency. With President Clinton, it is about the same as it was with President Bush, maybe even a little less; I am not sure. 
   Here we have a Democratic President who says that education is the No. 1 priority, and we are spending less as a percentage of our Federal budget on education than under President Nixon, a Republican. I am going to talk about Head Start in a while. Here we have a Democratic President and we don't fully fund the Head Start Program. I can forgive my Republican colleagues; I didn't expect a Republican President to fully fund Head Start. I just expected a Democratic President to fully fund Head Start. How naive of me. 
   Mr. President, it is just unbelievable. I point out these disparities, and a lot of K through 12 is at the State level. But you would think that we would make a difference where we could make a difference. Yet, we don't, and we have all this discussion about education being the No. 1 priority. 
   Frankly, the President has presented us with a ``tin cup budget.'' The President wants to increase the Pentagon budget next year by $12.5 billion and by $110 billion over the next 6 years, and he calls for barely a $2 billion increase in the Department of Education budget. Pretty unbelievable. You would think that if education was a big priority, we would see the same increase in funding for education as we would see for the Pentagon. Not so. 
   Mr. President, I now want to turn my attention to what we ought to be doing as opposed to what we are doing. Before I do that, however--and I will finish up on this--I want to point out one more time--and I will have an amendment that deals with this part of the bill that makes it crystal clear that this title I program is severely underfunded. And I will have a vote on it. I spend a lot of time in these schools with these principals, teachers, and these families. They all tell me--before my colleague came here, I was saying that I went to the schools in St. Paul-Minneapolis with 65 to 70 percent poverty that don't receive any title I funding because by the time we allocate the money, there is no more money left. And we do very good things with this money for these children that need additional help. But we are not calling for any additional investment of money for our schools to work with. In addition, what we are not doing is, as a national community, we are no longer saying to the States and school districts there are certain core, if you will, values, that we want to see maintained. 
   There is a mission to title I. We know why we passed title I in 1965, because we took a look around the Nation and it wasn't a pretty picture. In quite a few States, whether anybody wants to admit it or not, these poor children fell between the cracks. So we, as a Nation, will at least have a minimal standard that will say, with title I, there will be certain core requirements; there will be qualified teachers; there will be high standards; there will be some testing and some results and some evaluation, and this will apply to title I programs everywhere in our land, to make sure that some of these children have a real opportunity. And now, with this legislation, we are going to toss that overboard. I will have an amendment that says we can't. 
   The second thing we said in 1994--and I don't know what my colleagues think, and I will have an amendment and we will have a debate and vote on it--was that in the allocation of the money, those schools with a higher percentage, 75 percent low-income students or more, should have first priority for 
   funding. That makes sense to me. For some reason, my colleagues want to toss that overboard. 
   By the way, I made a third point, which is that I understand--I know my colleague from Arkansas comes from a smaller town, a rural community, and that is a big part of Minnesota. I understand the zero sum game we are in, because the crazy part of it is that we don't get enough funding and, therefore, say--I could pick any community in Minnesota, but in any number of our greater Minnesota communities, people are saying, ``Paul, we have 20 percent or 30 percent low-income or 35 percent low-income''--in some rural areas it is much higher--``and we don't get any funding.'' So it becomes a zero sum game. What do you do with a limited amount of money? I would like to see something real out here on the floor of the U.S. Senate when we talk about getting more resources to our States and school districts. 
   Now, here is what we should be talking about on the floor of the U.S. Senate: early childhood development. This is the most pressing issue of all. If you talk to your teachers, they will tell you this. The best thing we can do as Senators is to get--by the way, it would be $20 billion over the next 4 years minimally. If we really wanted to make a difference, it would be about $20 billion over the next 4 years. Well, listen, we are going to do $110 billion to the Pentagon over 6 years--more subs, more nuclear warheads, more missiles. 
   If we were serious about this, we would make the commitment to early childhood development. That is what all of our teachers are telling us, and that is what our experts are telling us. It is the best thing you can do. By the way, those of you for flexibility, I agree, don't run it from Washington, DC. Get the resources back to the local communities and, like NGOs and nonprofits and all sorts of folks who meet the standards, set up really good development child care centers and also family-based child care and give the tax credits, but make sure they are refundable and that the low-income aren't left out, or families. Do it. Get real. Do the best thing we can do. But that is not on the floor today. We have Ed-Flex. Ed-Flex means nothing to these families. 
   Mr. President, I have already talked some about the kind of science literature--my colleague, I am trying to remember the name of the book--Dick and Ann Barnett. Dick is at the Institute of Policy Studies, and Ann is a pediatric neurologist. They have written a wonderful book. I can't remember the title. But there are many books that have come out. 
   Let me talk about the disparity. Listen to this 1990 study. Looking at the  hours of one-on-one picture book reading kids have experienced by the time they started first grade, low-income children average 25 hours. By the time they come to first grade they have altogether, with picture book reading, been read to 25 hours. Middle-class children average between 1,000 and 1,700 hours. It is unbelievable. 
   By the way, as a grandpa, I know that reading makes a difference. Now this gets tricky, because I can read my colleague's face here about the responsibility. Let's talk about this a little. I just said this. I now have to figure this out a little bit. 
   First of all, let me make the case that we could do so much better. I am for combining the commitment to child care. That is what we should be talking about today, and investing some resources in this, and getting community level volunteerism. I am for doing whatever can be done in the families, and I want parents to take the responsibility. I wish more would. I think sometimes it is brutal. People work different shifts, and two or three jobs working their heads off. And they hardly have the time to have a common occasion with their children; even to sit 
   down and eat dinner together. All too many of our families are under siege. 
   It is not that people aren't working. It is that people are working entirely too many hours. But both have to work. But I wish that parents would read more to their children before they are in kindergarten. But I also think this is all about whether there is good child care. This is also true with volunteers. I would be, for all of us who no longer have children that are young, getting the books out of our homes, and older computers out of our homes, and do it through veterans halls, do it through union halls, do it through the religious community, and invite volunteers, get tutors and mentors. We could do a lot. But I will tell you something. It makes a real big difference in terms of whether these children are ready to learn. And they are needy. 
   The needy--50 percent of the mothers of children under the age of 3 now work in our country outside of the home; 50 percent. There are 12 million children under the age of 3, and one in four lives in poverty. One out of two of color live in poverty--half of the children of color today in our country--and under the age of 3 are needy, the richest country in the world. 
   Compared with most other industrialized countries, the United States has a higher infant mortality rate portion of low-birth weight babies and a smaller portion of babies immunized against childhood diseases. 
   This critically affects education. This critically affects the educational payment of children. Full day care for one child ranges from $4,000 to $10,000. That is comparable, as I said earlier, to college tuition, room and board at our public universities. 
   Half of the young families in our country with young children earn less than $35,000 a year. A family with both parents working full time at minimum wage earns only $21,400 a year. 
   I want to tell you something. More than just about any other issue when I am in cafes in Minnesota, people talk to me--working families. They say, ``We can't afford this. We both work. We both have to work. I am 30. My wife is 28. We have two small children. Isn't there any way we can get some help for child care?'' 
   That is what is really critical, if we are going to be talking about education. Ed-Flex means nothing to these families. 
   Drawing on some reports, I am sorry to report these statistics. Six out of seven child care centers provide only poor to mediocre care. One out of eight centers provides care that could jeopardize a child's safety in development. One out of three home-based care situations could be harmful to a child's development--the Children Defense Fund study. 
   Although approximately 1,500 hours of training from an accredited school is required to qualify as a licensed hair cutter, masseur, or manicurist, 41 States do not require child care providers to have any training prior to serving children. The annual turnover rate among child care providers is about 40 percent. Do you want to know why? I love to take my grandchildren to the zoo. If you work at the zoo, you make twice the wage that women and men make with small children in this country. 
   One of the worst things we have done in the United States of America is to have abandoned too many poor children. This legislation takes us in that direction. And we have devalued the work of adults that work with these children. Most child care workers earn about $12,000 a year, slightly above the minimum wage. And they receive no benefits. That is unbelievable--unbelievable. 
   When I was teaching, I would have students come up to me, and they would say, ``Look. You know, do not be offended, but we want to go into education. But we don't want to teach at the college level. We think we could really make a difference if we work with 3 and 4-year-olds.'' Then the next thing they say is, ``But we don't know how we can afford it. We have a loan to pay off. How do you make a living?'' Why in the world do we pay such low wages? So the families can't afford the child care. The families can't afford the child care. And those adults that want to take care of children can't afford to provide the care. 
   What we have on the floor of the U.S. Senate instead is Ed-Flex. We could make a huge difference, but we don't, and we will not. 
   There was a woman, Fannie Lou Hammer--I have quoted her before--a civil rights activist. She was, Senator HUTCHINSON, I think, one of 14 children, the daughter of a sharecropper. Her immortal words, where she was once speaking, were, ``I am so sick and tired of being sick and tired.'' 
   I am sick and tired of the way in which we are playing symbolic politics with children's lives. If we were serious about doing something on the floor of the U.S. Senate that would make a difference for children, we wouldn't have this Ed-Flex bill on the floor. We would be talking about the ways in which we are going to provide money, dollars, resources for local 
   communities to provide the very best of elemental child care so that every child, by the time he or she is of kindergarten age, is ready to learn. That is the most important thing we could do. And we don't even make it a priority. 
   Now, Senator DEWINE and I passed an amendment that we are proud of; it is the law of the land, but we don't have the funding yet, which says that we will at least have loan forgiveness for those men and women who get their degree and go into early childhood development work. But that still doesn't do the job. We ought to pay decent wages. I don't understand this. 
   Senator HUTCHINSON is, I guess, what Governor Bush would call a compassionate conservative. He is certainly passionate; he is certainly conservative. I don't understand this. We have two groups of citizens that are the most vulnerable that deserve the most support and the adults that work with them make the least amount of pay with the worst working conditions. 
   Nursing homes, my mother and father both had Parkinson's disease, and we fought like heck to keep them at home, and we did. We kept them at home for a number of years. We kept them at home, between Sheila and I and our children spending the night, as long as we could until we could not any longer. And then toward the end of each of their lives, toward the end of their lives they were in a nursing home. 
   Well, I don't think I could do that work. It is pretty important. You have people who built this country on their backs. They have worked hard. They are elderly. They are infirm. They need the help, and we pay the lowest wages. We have a lot of people in these nursing homes who don't even have health care coverage. 
   Congratulations, Service Employees International Union, for your victory in California in LA organizing home health care workers. The other thing we ought to do is to try to enable people to stay at home as long as possible to live in dignity and provide help. But why do we pay people, why do we pay adults so little to do such important work? 
   And then the other group of citizens that is the most vulnerable, the most in need of help that we should provide the most support to is small children. We devalue the work of adults. I don't get it. If you are some advertising executive--I don't want to pick on them, but if you are some advertising executive who figures out some clever way  to sell some absolutely useless product or you have got all sorts of ads that the Senator from Arkansas and I both would not like, just think it is trash, it should not be on TV, exploitive in all kinds of ways--and I think the Senator from Arkansas knows what I mean--such a person probably gets paid hundreds of thousands of dollars, and then you have child workers who are working with children, and they get next to peanuts. Boy, I think our priorities are distorted. 
   Let me tell you, Ed-Flex doesn't do anything to deal with this problem of priorities. 
   Mr. President, I am going to just mention two other areas. I have really covered Head Start already. I was going to read from some Minnesota stories, but I am going to move on, some huge success stories just to simply mention the well-known Perry study on the benefits of Head Start. It is pretty interesting. They did a sort of a control of two different groups. 
   Head Start participants, they did a followup through age 27. This program was started in 1965. Criminal arrests: 7 percent Head Start, 25 percent control group--those kids that weren't in Head Start, controlling for income and family background and all the rest. Higher earnings, 29 percent of Head Start kids, 2,000 plus per month, only 7 percent control 
   group; 71 percent Head Start kids graduated or received a GED, only 54 percent control group. And 59 percent received assistance, they did receive some assistance, still poor, but 80 percent of the control group. And fewer out-of-wedlock births across the board. 
   For kids who have really grown up under some really difficult conditions, the Head Start Program has helped them with a head start. And we have a budget that the President presents that will get us to 2 million children, I think, covered, but that is about half. 
   About 2 million children will be eligible. The President's budget gets us a million. Half. So our goal--talk about a downsized agenda, talk about politics of low expectations--is to provide funding for only half these children. 
   Now, this isn't even early Head Start because really what we have to do well is before the age of 3. I noticed when Governor Whitman was testifying before, she was talking about her program in New Jersey, which sounds to me as if it is a very important program that deals, I think, with 4 and 5-year-olds or 3 and 4-year-olds, and I said to her, what about preage 3? I know she nodded her head in agreement. 
   Why aren't we providing the resources? In all due respect, if we want to do something really positive, the most important thing we can do is invest in the health care and intellectual skills of our children. Ed-Flex doesn't do that, and we are not going to do it. 
   So I am not going to let my colleagues put this bill forward as if it is a great big, bold step forward for poor children in America. It is not. As a matter of fact, it will do damage to children unless we have the strengthened accountability language. And we will see whether or not we can get a vote for that. 
   Might I ask a question, Mr. President? I wonder how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I have a few things I would like to lay out, but I want to ask my colleague from Vermont--he has had to sit here and listen to some of which I don't think he agrees and some of which he might agree. I wonder whether or not--I could take another 15 minutes and then reserve the remainder of my time if my colleague wants to speak, or does he want to wait, or how would he like to proceed? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleague. 
   Mr. President, I say to my colleague from Vermont, on my time, if he chooses to assent or disagree or remind me where I am wrong, please feel free to do so. I extend the invitation. I was a teacher. I can easily fill up the next hour without any trouble. 
   Mr. President, before I go to afterschool care, I would like to just one more time focus on why I think this Ed-Flex bill shouldn't even be in the Chamber. I have talked about what I think the flaws are with the legislation, but I also want to talk about what I think we should be talking about. I would like to just draw, if I could, on two experiences that I have had traveling the country that I think apply to this debate. 
   One of them which I have talked about once or twice before--it is very positive. It is not a putdown of anybody--took place in the delta in Mississippi, in Tunica, MS. I had traveled there because I wanted to spend some time in low-income communities around the country--South, North, East, West, rural, urban. And when I visited Tunica several years ago now, there was a teacher, Mr. Robert Hall, who I will never forget. It was at a town meeting, and he stood up and said it is hard to give students hope, and he talked about how--I don't know--I think maybe about 50 percent of the students graduated. 
   By the way, this young African American woman that I quoted I think in East St. Louis, who was talking about her school being segregated, actually in Tunica the case is that the public school is all black or African American, the private school is all white. 
   Anyway, at the end of this he asked me whether I would come back to speak, would I come next year for the graduation? I said yes, and I said yes not realizing that I had made a prior commitment. What are you going to do, you know, when you make a commitment like that? So I called and I said could I come the day before graduation, to at least get a chance to meet with the seniors, because I wanted to live up to my commitment. And he said yes. So I flew from Minneapolis down to Memphis and then was met, I think by Mr. Erikson, who was driving me to Tunica. This is one of my favorite stories. 
   I said, ``Are we going to the high school?'' 
   He said, ``No. You are going to be addressing the third and fourth graders.'' 
   And I said, ``I am going to be giving a policy address to the third and fourth graders?'' 
   And he said, ``Well, yes.'' 
   And I said, ``Is this the last day of school?'' 
   He said, ``Well, yes.'' 
   I said, ``So I am going to be giving a policy address to third and fourth graders on the last day of school?'' 
   He said, ``Well, yes.'' 
   I said, ``I'm in trouble.'' 
   So we go to the elementary school. There are, I don't know, a hundred kids, third and fourth graders, thereabouts, sitting in the chairs, waiting for me to give a policy address. And there is the PA system on the stage, which is high above where the students are, and the principal gives me a really nice introduction, and I am supposed to go up there and look down at these students and give them a policy address. 
   So I was trying to figure out what to do. I asked the principal, ``Can I get down in the auditorium where the kids are?'' 
   He said, ``Sure.'' 
   So I got down there, and this little girl, thank God, made my class for me. I said, ``Is this the last day of school?'' 
   Everybody said, ``Yes.'' 
   I said, ``Well, what have you liked about school?'' 
   And this one little girl raised her hand and she said, ``Well, what I like about school is, if I do good in school, I can do really good things in my life.'' Something like that. 
   And I said, ``Well, what do you want to be?'' And I said to all the students, ``What do you want to be?'' 
   There were, Senator HUTCHINSON, 40 hands up. It was great. They had all sorts of dreams. I mean, quite a few of them wanted to be Michael Jordan--not a surprise. I heard everything: Teacher, writer, psychiatrist, Michael Jordan, on and on and on. But the thing of it is, there was that spark. It was beautiful. I know, as a former teacher, that you can take that spark of learning in a child, regardless of background, and if you ignite that spark of learning, that child can go on to a lifetime of creativity and accomplishment. Or you can pour cold water on that spark of learning. We are not doing anything here in Washington, DC, to help ignite that spark of learning. We are not.  
   Now, I feel a little uncomfortable saying that. Maybe I should say ``precious little.'' We are doing precious little. I feel uncomfortable saying that, because Senator JEFFORDS is a Senator who is committed to education. I know that. I have a tremendous amount of respect for him. But I am talking, I say to my colleague, Senator JEFFORDS, in a more general way. I don't understand our priorities. I just don't understand our priorities. I am just sick and tired--to sort of again talk about Fanny Lou Hammer--of bills that are brought out here, people get the impression there is some big step forward, and when it comes to the investment of resources--some of which you fight for, this investment of resources--we do not do it. I just tell you, it is tragic. 
   For these kids and these schools all across the country, they are not saying: Give us Ed-Flex, give us Ed-Flex, give us Ed-Flex. They are saying: We want to have good teachers and smaller classes. We want to have good health care. We want to have an adequate diet. We want to go to schools that are inviting places. We want to have hope. We want to be able to afford college. That is what they are saying. They are not talking about Ed-Flex. 
   The second point, and last one of my stories--true. I am going to shout this from the mountaintop. I get this time on the floor of the Senate because I insist this is what we should be talking about, and I will do everything I can, with amendments and bills, to bring this out here and force debates and votes and all the rest. 
   I hear this in the law enforcement community. We should hold kids accountable when they commit brutal crimes. We should hold people accountable when they commit brutal crimes. But we will build a million new prisons on present course. That is the fastest growing industry in the country. And we will fill them all up and we will never stop this cycle of violence unless we invest in the health and skills and intellect and character of our children. And we are not doing that in the U.S. Senate or in the U.S. House of Representatives. Certainly not with 
   Ed-Flex. 
   Where do these kids wind up? They come to school way behind, they fall further behind, they don't have anywhere near the same opportunities to learn, and then they wind up in prison. I talked about this before. I think this will be the last time I will talk about it, except when we debate a bill which I introduced, the mental health juvenile justice bill. I visited a ``correction facility'' called Tallula Correction Facility in Tallula, MI. But I say to my colleagues from Arkansas, Louisiana, south--this could be anywhere in the country, anywhere in the country. And the Justice Department has had a pretty hard report about conditions in Georgia and Kentucky and some other States. 
   I see there are some young people here today in the gallery. What did I find in Tallula? The Tallula facility is a corrections facility for kids ages 11 to 18. I went to Tallula because I had read in the Justice Department report that there were kids who were in solitary confinement up to 7 weeks at a time, 23 hours a day, and I wanted to know what they had done for this to happen to them. 
   One young man, Travis, he is now 16, he went to Tallula when he was 13 for stealing a bike. He wound up there for 18 months, and he was beaten up over and over again. Tallula has had some lawsuits filed against it. 
   I went to the Tallula facility, and the first thing I noticed about the 550 kids was about 80 to 85 percent of them were African American. And then, when I met with some of the officials, I wanted to go to the solitary confinement cells and they wanted to take me to where the students were eating lunch--students--kids--young people. So we first started out to where they were eating lunch and then we were going to go to these cells. 
   When I walked in, even with all these officials there, I asked some of these kids, ``How are you doing?'' 
   I will never forget, this one young man says to me, ``Not well.'' 
   I say, ``What do you mean?'' 
   By this time, there were 30 officials looking at this kid. He said, ``This food, we never eat this food. It's because you are here.'' He said, ``These clothes? We never had clothes like this. They just gave us these shorts and T-shirts. We have been wearing the same smelly, dirty clothes day after day.'' 
   He said, ``The tables are painted--smell the paint. It has just been painted.'' 
   Then I went outside and this one young man made a break from the guards, jumped onto a roof, and ran across the roof. It was about 100 degrees heat. And I said, ``Why are you doing this? You are going to get in a lot of trouble.'' I looked up at him, walked up to the roof. 
   He said, ``I want to make a statement.'' 
   I said, ``What's your statement?'' 
   He said, ``This is a show, and when you leave here they are going to beat us up.'' 
   Well, the State of Louisiana has taken some action. This was privatized. There are lawsuits. There have been editorials about anarchy at Tallula. I will just tell you this. I will tell you this: 95 percent of these kids at Tallula had not committed a violent crime. I met one kid who had stolen a bike. I met one kid who was in there for breaking and entering. I did meet one kid who cut a kid in a fight with a knife. I forget the fourth kid. Mr. President, 95 percent of nonviolent crimes--that is about the case in all of these juvenile detention facilities. 
   I will tell you, Senator, I would be pleased to meet almost any of those kids at 10 o'clock at night before they got to Tallula. I would not want to meet any of them when they get out. 
   So let's not kid ourselves. These State budgets and Federal budgets that go to prisons and jails are just going to continue to skyrocket, and that is where a lot of young people are going to end up unless, from the very beginning of their lives, we figure out--at a community level, not a Federal Government level--how we are going to make sure that we make the investment in these kids. And that is something we should be doing in the Senate. But this bill does not do that. 
   Before I return to the final case I want to make on this specific bill, let me just read some figures. Mr. President, I would like to read a little bit about some facts on what is going on with kids after school. Twenty-two million school-aged children have working parents; that is, 62 percent of these children have parents who are working. Children spend only 20 percent of their waking hours in school. The gap between the parents' work schedule and the students' school schedules can amount to 20 to 25 hours per week. That is from the Ann E. Casey Foundation. 
   Experts estimate that nearly 5 million school-aged children spend time without adult supervision during a typical week. An estimated 35 percent of 12-year-olds care for themselves regularly during afterschool hours when their parents are working. 
   What happens during out-of-school hours? Violent juvenile crime triples during the hours of 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. And 280 children are arrested for violent crimes every day. Children are most likely to be the victims of violent crime by a nonfamily member between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. 
   Children without adult supervision are at a significantly greater risk of truancy from school, stress, receiving poor grades, risk-taking behavior, and substance abuse. Children who spend more hours on their own and begin self-care at younger ages are at increased risks. And I could footnote each and every one of these findings. 
   Children spend more of their discretionary time watching television than any other activity. Television viewing accounted for 25 percent of children's discretionary time in 1997, or 14 hours per week on average. 
   Facts about out-of-school programs: Almost 30 percent of public schools and 50 percent of private schools offered before- or afterschool care in 1993-1994. It is going up. But the General Accounting Office estimates that, for the year 2002, the current number of out-of-schooltime programs for school-aged children will meet as little as 25 percent of the demand in urban areas. 
   Mr. President, I could actually go on and on, but here is the point I want to make. The point I want to make is that if we want to pass legislation that makes a positive difference in the lives of children and helps parents raise their children decently--you know, what families are saying to us is: ``Do what you can do to help us do our best  by our kids.'' They are not talking about Ed-Flex. 
   What I am hearing from families in Minnesota--and I think it is the same for around the country--is: Look, we both have to work, or, I am a single parent, and I am working, and I am worried sick about where my child is after school. Can't you provide some funding? 
   Why doesn't the Ed-Flex bill talk about flexibility for schools and communities to have more resources for afterschool care? There is something positive we can do. I assume that maybe Senator BOXER or one of my colleagues will have an amendment and we will have a vote on this. Now, there is an educational initiative that will make a huge difference. 
   There is nothing more disheartening to a parent or parents than to know that both of you have to work but to also know that your second grader or your third grader or your 12-year-old or your 13-year-old is going home alone. Why don't we do something about that? We have all the evidence we need. We have all the evidence we need. 
   We know that this is the time when kids get into the most trouble. We know that in more and more of our working families both parents are working. We know this is one of the biggest concerns parents have, right alongside affordable child care. What we all ought to be doing by way of ed-flexibility is providing the resources for communities and for schools to make a difference. 
   By the way, Mr. President, I was mentioning television. For my colleagues who are worried about the violence that kids see on TV--and it is awful--you should just think about what they see in their homes. Every 15 seconds, a woman is battered. One of the things we ought to be doing, if we really want to do something that will make a difference for kids--and I have a piece of legislation I am introducing on this that I hope to get a lot of support on--is to provide some funding for partnerships between the schools and the other key actors in the community that will provide some help and assistance to kids who 
   have seen this in their homes over and over and over again. That would make a big difference. That would make a big difference. 
   I said this last night. I think I need to say it again. I do not think I am being melodramatic when I say that we have two problems. We have a huge learning gap. That is what it is all about. And it is highly correlated with income and race and poverty and gender. But we also have--and I do not know what the right label is for this, but we have a lot of kids who, by the time they come to kindergarten or first grade, have seen so much in their lives, that children should not have to see and experience, that they are not going to be able to learn at all, even with small class sizes, even with really good teachers, even with really good facilities--none of which Ed-Flex deals with--unless there is some help for them. They need additional help. And you know what? They deserve it. They deserve it. 
   Mr. President, I am going to, I think, finish up where I started. Before I do that, I want to just read one other quote that is kind of interesting. This is from a woman Jonathan Kozol is talking to in his latest book he has written called ``Amazing Grace.'' And I say to my colleague, I am not sure I should quote this because of the current circumstances, but I think it should be read. This woman lives in the community, South Bronx, the Mott Haven community. And here is what she has to say. She is saying this to Jonathan Kozol, the author:  
   Do you ever turn on C-SPAN? You can see these rather shallow but smart people--  
   This is just her perspective--  
   most of them young and obviously privileged, going on and on with perky overconfidence about the values and failings of poor women, and you want to grab them in your hands and shake them.
   It is like this young man I met at Center School, which is an alternative school in Minneapolis, in the Phillips neighborhood, about a month ago. This is kind of his last chance; he is a young African American man. I was having a discussion with 30 or 40 kids. There are a lot of Native American students there, as well. Actually, there are more Native American students. I was trying to be very honest with them. I said, I would like for you to answer one question for me. I am here because I really do care about you and I respect your judgment. A lot of these kids don't believe anybody values their opinions. They have very little self-confidence. I said to this one young African American man, a senior, ``A lot of people say that you don't really care. The problem isn't the poverty of your family, the problem isn't the violence in the neighborhoods, the problem isn't that you haven't had the funding or the opportunities. The problem is you don't care. And that if you really cared, you would be able to do this. How do you respond to that?'' He looked at me and he said, ``Tell them to walk in my shoes.'' 
   I think that is what this woman was saying about her observations about what she sees on C-SPAN. 
   I conclude this way: I came to the floor of the U.S. Senate last night and I spent half an hour speaking. I have come to the floor of the U.S. Senate today and I have spent several hours speaking about the Ed-Flex bill. I have been strong and maybe harsh in my comments. I do not mean them to be personal at all. I have gone out of my way to say, because I think it is true--I wouldn't say it if I didn't think it was true. 
   It happens that the Senator from Vermont is out here managing the bill, and I consider him to be a Senator who cares a great deal about education and children. I know what he has done right here in Washington, DC. 
   What deeply troubles me about what is going on here in the U.S. Senate, which is why I have tried to the best of my ability--and I will have amendments, as well--to say, wait a minute, we have a piece of legislation, and I can see the spinning and I can see the hype. It has a great name: Ed-Flex. It has a great slogan: ``Get the bureaucrats out, let the States decide.'' But I can see this piece of legislation represented as a piece of legislation that is a major educational initiative for children in our country. I have tried to make it crystal clear that is quite to the contrary. 
   I say to my colleague from Arkansas that I will be finished in a minute or two. If he chooses to debate, I will be glad to do that. Is he standing to speak? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. If I could finish this thought, I am pleased to yield for a question. In fact, that might be a welcome relief from hearing myself speak. I am pleased to take a question or whatever criticism that the Senator might want to throw my way. 
   This piece of legislation isn't going to do anything that is going to make a significant difference in assuring educational opportunities for all of our children in our country. It won't. This particular piece of legislation is not going to meet the standard, which is the most important standard that I believe in more than anything else. I say to my colleague from Arkansas: I think every infant, every child, ought to have the same chance to reach his or her full potential. 
   This legislation doesn't make any real difference. This legislation doesn't point us in the direction of making a commitment to early childhood development, to making a commitment to communities so that kids can come to school, ready to learn. This piece of legislation doesn't fully fund Head Start. This piece of legislation doesn't provide the funding for nutrition programs for children, many of whom are hungry. Quite to the contrary. We put into effect a 20-percent cut in the Food Stamp Program by the year 2002. This piece of legislation doesn't do anything that will change the concerns and circumstances of these children's lives before they go to school and when they go home. This piece of legislation doesn't do anything to effect smaller class size, to repair or rebuild our crumbling schools, to help us recruit over the next 10 years 2 million teachers, who we will need, as the best and the most creative teachers. This piece of legislation does absolutely nothing that will in a positive way affect the conditions that have the most to do with whether or not each and every child in our country will truly have the same opportunity to be all he or she can be. 
   Moreover, to summarize, this piece of legislation turns the clock backwards. This piece of legislation takes the good  work of the 1994 reauthorization bill, which will assure that the allocation of funds first goes to those schools with a 75 percent low-income population or more, and tosses it overboard. This piece of legislation in its present form--and to me this may be the biggest issue of all about this piece of legislation. I think other bills should be on the floor that make a difference, but if we are going to pass this piece of legislation, at least let's make sure we have flexibility with accountability. That means that the basic core requirements of title I on well-qualified teachers, high standards testing, measuring results and knowing how we are doing are fenced in. In no way, shape or form, with all the flexibility in the world, will any State or school district be exempt from meeting those requirements. 
   I say to my colleague from Arkansas, I am pleased to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will yield the floor in just a moment. I appreciate my colleague's courtesy. The C-SPAN quote, just so it is in the RECORD, was from a Mrs. Elizabeth Washington of the Mott Haven community in the South Bronx. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. How about if I reserve the remainder of my time? I will reserve the remainder of my time, and if the Senator from Oregon wants to speak, that would be fine with me. How much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Fifteen minutes of my time? I would be pleased to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will take about 5 or 10 minutes, and then I will yield back the rest of my time. I have had several hours. I say to my colleague from Tennessee that I will yield back my time because I have to give a talk with law enforcement people in Minnesota via video. 
   There are some students from Minnesota who are here. Welcome. We are glad you are here, and teachers and parents. 
   Let me just make three points. 
   First of all, although we will have tougher debate later on, I say to my colleague from Oregon, we certainly didn't have any lengthy debate on Ed-Flex this Congress. We never had a hearing--not one hearing at all. When my colleague says they can't talk about any abuses, the fact of the matter is that both the Congressional Research Service and GAO--I am not prejudging one way or other, but it is difficult to talk about what is going on--both have said we don't have the data in yet. We don't have the data in. What is the rush? I might have a different judgment about this on the basis--I don't know whether I will generalize 12 States to 50 States, but I certainly might be less skeptical if in fact we had the data and if we had the reports in. We don't. But we are rushing ahead. 
   The second point I want to make is that my colleague talks about the ``core'' requirements. Certainly it is true that, with IDEA, the core requirements are kept intact. But as a matter of fact, we will see that the truth will be very clear with this amendment. I will have an amendment on the floor, and it will simply say that the core requirements are that title I students be taught by highly qualified professional staff, that States set high standards for all children, that States provide funding to the lowest income schools first, that States hold schools accountable for making substantial annual progress toward getting all students, particularly low-income and limited-English-proficient students, to meet high standards, and that the vocational programs provide broad education and work experiences rather than their own job training. I will have an amendment  that says those core requirements will be fenced off and no State or school district will be exempt. 
   Can my colleagues tell me that that is the case right now? If so, then that amendment will pass with overwhelming support. Right now, that is not in the bill. Do you have language in the bill that guarantees that all those requirements will be met? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Do both my colleagues agree? Lord, we don't even have to have a debate on it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, this amendment will say that States cannot waive the following core requirements. These have been the core requirements of title 1. 
   Would my colleague agree that States will not be able to waive these core requirements? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Just to be clear, I get a different message from my two colleagues here. This is where the rubber meets the road. I spent a lot of time on what Ed-Flex doesn't do and what we should be doing. My point right now is that every single person I know who has worked on title I and knows what it is all about is absolutely committed and insistent that the core requirements be fenced in, remain intact, and no State can get a waiver, no school district can get a waiver. I am asking the Senator whether he agrees. If the Senator agrees, this certainly makes it a far better bill than it is right now. 
   And my second question is, What about the 75 percent rule? That is a core requirement right now. We worked that in in 1994. Would both of my colleagues agree that schools with 75 percent low-income students or more should be first priority in funding and that we keep that in as a requirement, so that we don't lessen the financial aid to the neediest schools? Would you agree? Could I get support for that right now? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, my colleague, first of all, well knows that we are going to be allowed to proceed, because I asked for several hours and I have about used up my time. So we are going to proceed. 
   My colleague already knows that, so there is no reason to press, to make the case. With all due respect, we could have a discussion about these issues right now. We can have the discussion about them later on. I have spent a considerable amount of time pointing out right now that in the bill, as it reads, States can receive a waiver from these basic core requirements of title I. I want to make sure we have the strictest accountability measures to make sure that will not happen. I have pointed out that right now, as the bill currently stands, States can receive a waiver from the 75-percent requirement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I want to make sure that doesn't happen. 
   I will be pleased to yield. In fact, I literally have to leave in a minute 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would say to my colleague from Oregon, that if we have the same interpretation--and we will see; I get a somewhat different reaction from my colleague from Tennessee--I will have an amendment with clear language that lists those core requirements and makes it crystal clear that they are fenced in and that no State or school district can receive any waiver on those requirements, in which case that 
   will be some good accountability, in which case I would expect full support for it. My interpretation is a different one. If you are right that we already have the ironclad guarantees, then this amendment should pass with 100 votes. 
   Mr. President, let me simply thank my colleagues. We don't agree, but I think it was important to have the opportunity to speak about this bill and give it, I think, a wide context and to speak to what I think are the flaws. We are going to have a spirited debate with any number of amendments, and I hope ultimately this ends up being a very positive piece of legislation that will make a positive difference in the lives of children. In its present shape and form, it does not do that. And we will have a major debate. 
   I will yield back the remainder of my time, and I say to my colleagues, I will not be asking for the yeas and nays. We can just have a voice vote. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, parliamentary inquiry for a moment. Certainly that is fine with me. The pending business is the amendment that I have on the floor; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That remains the pending amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask that I might speak about the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Yes, the Senator is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I don't know whether we are going to reach agreement on this amendment or not. If we do, that is great. If we don't, then I will come back to these points again and debate it. I would like colleagues to know what is at issue here because I think this amendment goes to the very essence of accountability. 
   Mr. President, I have a couple of letters and talking points from the leadership conference on civil rights that I want to briefly mention to colleagues. Let me just start out and read a little bit here.  
   The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights has made the continuation of the standards-based reform adopted in title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act a top priority in the 106th Congress. In order to protect these reforms, we urge you to support amendments offered by Senators Kennedy, Reed, Dodd and Wellstone to the Ed-Flexibility Partnership Act that are urgently needed to protect the opportunities of economically disadvantaged children, children of color, children with disabilities, and other children who need the law's protection.  
   Next paragraph:  
   While the stated purposes of S. 280 are to advance the efforts to achieve comprehensive school reform, the bill as reported by committee does not assure that States will qualify for waivers only if they can demonstrate that they have complied with a strong record of reform in the 5 years since Congress with strong bipartisan majorities adopted standards-based reform as national policy in title I of the ESEA, nor does S. 280 assure that States once having achieved Ex-Flex status will not excuse local school authorities from fundamental requirements of title I, such as maintaining high quality teaching staffs and offering afterschool and summer programs for children who need them.  
   That is it. That is what this amendment says. This amendment is really simple, and my colleagues have stated in spirit that they support it. This amendment simply says that we take the core requirements, and we make sure that the core requirements, the fundamental requirements of title I, such as maintaining high quality teaching staffs, or offering afterschool and summer programs for children who need them, that no local school authority can be excused from meeting these standards. 
   Let me again just mention what we are talking about. The requirement that title I students be taught by highly qualified professional staff--who can be opposed to that? The requirement that LEAs hold schools accountable for making substantial annual progress toward getting all students, particularly low-income and limited-English-proficient students, to meet the high standards. Who can be opposed to that? The requirement that schools provide timely and effective individual assistance for students who are farthest behind; and, finally--this is it--the requirement that funded vocational programs provide broad educational and work experience rather than narrow job training. That also applies. 
   All this amendment says is that we will make it crystal clear by making sure that we will have flexibility with accountability, that no State will provide a waiver to a school district from the core requirements of title I. 
   My colleague, Senator WYDEN, has said to me that he agrees with that. I am hoping that my colleague, Senator JEFFORDS, will agree. 
   That is the reason for this letter by the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. The reason that I have been out here on the floor for hours is twofold. One, I think we ought to be focusing on what we can really do for children that will make a real difference. This piece of legislation won't. But the second is  I don't want to turn the clock backwards. I don't want to go back to pre-title I, 35 years of good history. I don't want us to essentially say that we as a Federal Government, we as a national community are going to abandon poor children, that we are going to now say for the first time that 
   we are going to allow a State to allow a school district to exempt itself from the core requirements of good teachers, high standards, and measurement of results. 
   My colleagues want to argue that there is already language in the bill that says this. I don't think so. The people who I think have been involved with this, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights for years, have put a lot of sweat and tears into making sure that there are educational opportunities for disadvantaged children, low-income children, children of color. They are very worried about the lack of accountability. This amendment is specific. It says let's make sure that we keep this accountability. 
   Mr. President, I am hopeful that the amendment will be accepted. I guess that we will wait and see. I will have other supporting evidence, if we go into a debate. I guess we are now negotiating on this amendment. But it is really, I mean, simple. There are a couple of things. The States have to be in compliance with title I. Who could argue that we would be interested in giving States flexibility, exemptions and all the rest, if they are not in compliance with title I? 
   The second thing the amendment says is no State should be able to provide a waiver to a local school authority from these basic core values, the core mission of title I. And what are these requirements? That these students be taught by highly qualified professional staff, that schools be held accountable to making annual progress toward helping students, including students with limited English proficiency, that the schools provide timely assistance to those kids who need it the most. How can anybody oppose this? 
   If you do not want to have accountability, and you basically want to gut part of what title I has been all about for all of these years, a program that, as Senator KENNEDY has said, worked very well, go ahead and do it. Otherwise, this amendment should be accepted. 
   I will wait, for we will continue to talk, and I hope that there will be support for this. 
   Mr. President, I have had a chance to speak a long time today. So I yield the floor. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, might I ask my colleague, I assume he would want me to take my time and then finish up; is that correct? Is that the way he would like to do it? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is fine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all let me say I very much hope that there will be strong support for this amendment I have introduced along with Senator KENNEDY. If I could just make this request of my colleagues--and I will return to the letter from the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights in a moment--I don't know why in the world we don't just get away from the paper and the words, and why we do not accept an amendment that basically says we will do what we say we will do. What in the world can be the basis of the opposition to this amendment? 
   This is an amendment that is strongly supported by the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. This is an amendment that speaks to, really, their central fear about this legislation in its present form. This is an amendment that makes it crystal clear, once again, that the mission of title I, an important mission, which is the improvement of educational opportunities for poor children, will not be weakened. 
   This is an amendment which says that when it comes to the core requirements of title I, when it comes to the essence of what this program is about, when it comes to the essence of accountability, no State will be allowed to exempt any school district from these core requirements. 
   We want to make sure that, in every school district in this country, title I students will be taught by highly qualified professional staff. We want to make sure that schools are accountable for making substantial annual progress. We want to make sure that students, low-income students and students with limited English proficiency, meet these standards. We want to make sure that schools provide timely and effective individual instruction for students who are farthest behind. We want to make sure there is specific language. This is the request of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. This is the request of people who have given their lives to title I in this legislation, that we have specific language that makes it clear that no State will allow any school district to be exempt from these core requirements, the core components of title I. 
   You say you want to do this but you don't want to support an amendment that makes it clear that we will do this. My question is, Why not? In all due respect, I may be the only vote against this legislation. I know I won't be the only vote for this amendment. I think there will be a strong vote for this amendment. But in all due respect, if you are not willing to support this amendment which goes to the core of accountability, then you are doing some serious damage to title I, to the title I mission. This piece of legislation will go too long a way towards abandoning a national commitment to poor children. 
   Now, for the first time ever, we are saying it will be possible for a State to  give a school district an exemption from the basic core requirements of title I--from the basic core requirements. And this amendment just asks you to support what it is you say you are for. 
   If you want to go toward block grants, and if you want to go toward moving us away from this mission, and you want to go toward weakening accountability, then go ahead and vote to table this amendment. But I certainly hope a majority of Senators will not do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will be pleased to yield for a question or yield time to my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. My colleague from Massachusetts is absolutely correct, and I say to my colleague from Massachusetts, I will list these other core requirements. One of them has to do with title I students, that they be taught by highly qualified professional staff. 
   Another one is that the LEAs hold schools accountable for making substantial annual progress toward getting all students, particularly low-income students and limited-English-proficient students, to meet the same high standards, and the requirement that schools provide timely and effective individual assistance for students who are farthest behind. 
   I say to my colleague, the reason that the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights feels so strongly about this amendment and the reason my colleague from Massachusetts does, is we know this goes to the very mission of title I. Why in the world would we not want to have this accountability built into this legislation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, the Senator from Massachusetts is absolutely correct, and this is why I speak with some indignation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Massachusetts. 
   Mr. President, this is not on the whole question of funds and, frankly, I have been worried about the dilution of funds. I have an amendment that will be accepted tonight that says schools with over 75 percent low-income children have first priority to funds. And I say this to my colleague from Vermont, I really speak now with some sadness because he is going to move to table this because this goes to not technical issues, not formula, this goes to the very essence of what title I is about. This goes to the core requirements, the core mission, the core accountability, and you now have a piece of legislation that tosses that overboard. 
   You are overturning 35 years of important history. You are overturning 35 years of history of a commitment on the part of our National Government to poor children in America. You are overturning the hard work of many women and men who have written a title I program with accountability that has really worked well for children. That is why the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights is so strongly in favor of this amendment. 
   I hope my colleagues will vote against this motion to table this amendment. This is the central accountability amendment. If this amendment does not pass, we do not have the accountability that has been so important to the success of title I. 
   I yield back the rest of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-20-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment simply requires that schools with over a 75-percent low-income student population must receive funds first, as a matter of priority--first, in terms of the allocation of the title I money--and that those neediest schools with a population of low-income students over 75 percent would have first priority in receiving those funds. 
   It is accepted by both sides. I thank my colleagues, Senator KENNEDY, Senator JEFFORDS, Senator WYDEN, and Senator FRIST, as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-21-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me thank Senator KENNEDY for his very gracious remarks. There is nobody in the Senate that I have more respect for, and I much appreciate what he had to say. I hope that we will, in fact, be in partnership on some critical amendments. In fact, I know we will be in partnership on some critical amendments that the Senate will be voting on. 
   Mr. President, I am debating this motion to proceed, and I am going to use a half hour tonight to kind of spell out or give an outline of where I am going to be heading, and then I will use 3 1/2 hours tomorrow. 
   Mr. President, this is what I want to say on the floor of the Senate, and I hope that it is important. We have a piece of legislation that is on the floor of the Senate and I wonder why. This bill is called the Ed-Flex legislation, the Ed-Flex bill. But we never had a hearing in the U.S. Senate--not one hearing in one committee, the Labor and Human Resources Committee, on this bill. We never had an opportunity to listen to different people who are down in the trenches working with children. We never had an opportunity to carefully evaluate the pluses and minuses. Yet, my Republican colleagues bring this bill to the floor. 
   Secondly, it is absolutely true--and Senator KENNEDY did an excellent job of summarizing this--that there are a number of States that have moved forward. I voted for the legislation--and Senator KENNEDY was a coauthor of it--to give the States flexibility. I thought the agreement was that we would then be able to see what States have done and then 
   reach a final judgment as to whether or not we wanted to pass such a sweeping piece of legislation. I will talk about why I think it is sweeping, not in the positive but in the negative. As the General Accounting Office pointed out, we don't have any evaluation of what these different States have done with this flexibility. Have they used this Ed-Flex bill to dramatically improve the opportunities for poor children in their States or not? We don't know. Yet, this bill is now on the floor of the U.S. Senate. 
   Mr. President, I am opposed to this piece of legislation. It passed 18-1 in committee, but I am opposed to this piece of legislation. I hope other colleagues will join me as this debate goes forward, for several reasons. First and foremost, I believe this legislation--just taking this bill for what it is--is a retreat from a commitment that we made as a nation in 1965 to poor children in America. We made this commitment and had title I as a provision in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act because we knew, unfortunately, that for all too many poor children and their families--you know, they are not the ones with the clout--they were not receiving the educational assistance and support that they deserved; thus, the title I program. It is now about $8 billion a year. I want to talk about the funding level of this program a little later on. 
   What this legislation does is it essentially turns the clock back 30 or 35 years. This legislation now says that we no longer, as a nation, as a Federal Government, will continue with this commitment. We will give money to States and they will decide what they want to do. 
   I am all for flexibility. I just wonder, where is the accountability? At the very minimum, in such a piece of legislation shouldn't there be clear language that points out that the basic core provisions of title I, which provide the protection for poor children in America, are fenced off and no State will be exempt from those provisions? That is to say that these children, low-income children, will have highly qualified teachers who will be working with them, that these low-income children will be held to high standards, that these low-income children will have an opportunity to meet those standards, and that the poorest communities with the highest percentage of low-income children will have first priority on the title I funding that is spent. All of that, with the legislation that is before us, can be waived. No longer will we have any of these standards. 
   So you have two issues. No. 1, you have the lack of accountability on the very core provisions of title I that are so important in making sure that this is a program that works for poor children. No. 2, you have a problem just in terms of dilution of funding. 
   One of the amendments I will have on the floor will say that this title I funding that goes to different States--that those schools with 75 percent low-income students, or more, will have first priority in that funding. The funding has to first go to those schools. Right now, with this legislation, we have moved away from that. In 1994, when we went through this, we had an amendment that said that schools with over 75 percent low-income students had first priority for this funding. Now we abandon that in this legislation. So, first of all, let me be crystal clear about why I object to this. I object to this piece of legislation because it represents an abandonment of a national commitment to poor children in America, and, frankly, I am disappointed in my colleagues. I am disappointed in my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, but I am especially disappointed in my Democratic colleagues. Where is our sense of justice? Whatever happened to our fight for poor children? How could we have let this legislation just move forward and come right to the floor in its present form? Where is our voice? I don't understand it. 
   I am sorry if I sound--well, I am worried about sounding self-righteous; I  don't want to, but I certainly feel strongly about this. I think the silence of the Democrats is deafening on this question. 
   Now, second of all, Mr. President, I am going to take time tonight--I won't take much time tonight, but I will have a lot of time tomorrow--to raise another question about this legislation. No wonder people in our country become cynical about politics because this Ed-Flex bill--see, I understand the politics of it. It is hard to vote against it. It is called Ed-Flex, which is a great title. 
   Then we say get the money to the States, get the Federal Government out, it is politically--yes. I see how it works. But do you want to know something? I don't want to let anybody --any Republican or any Democrat--pass this legislation off as some great step forward in expanding opportunities for children. It is not a great step forward for children. It is a great leap backwards. It is a great leap backwards because it is an abandonment of our commitment to poor children. It is an abandonment of our standard which should be met by title I programs for poor children. I will tell you something else; it is a great leap backwards, or a great leap sideways, because it doesn't represent what we should be doing for children in this country. Tomorrow I will have an opportunity to outline some of the directions that I am going to go in. But let me just raise a few questions. 
   When I am home, what most people in communities tell me that are down in the trenches working with children, and what most of the State legislators tell me who are education legislators, is, ``PAUL, the Federal Government is a real player in a number of different areas.'' Title I is one, and another is early childhood development. Here is how you can help us out pre-K. We have a White House conference on the development of the brain. We have all this literature that has come out. I have read a lot of it about the development of the brain. The fact is irrefutable and irreducible--that if we don't get it right for children by age 3, many of them will never be prepared for school. They will come to kindergarten way behind and then they will fall further behind and further behind and then they will wind up in prison. 
   But we don't have a piece of legislation out here on early childhood development. And, frankly, the President's budget is pathetic, much less the Republicans' proposing even less. I mean, in the President's budget, I think maybe at best 20 percent of those low-income families that would be eligible for assistance are going to be able to receive any. And what about middle-income? I cannot believe that we are continuing to play symbolic politics with children's lives. 
   If we were serious about a piece of legislation on the floor of the U.S. Senate that would really do something positive for children, then we would be about the business of making sure that working families can afford the very best child care for their children. And we don't do that. Instead, we get Ed-Flex, which won't do one additional positive thing that will help expand educational opportunities for children in this country, especially among poor children of this country. 
   Mr. President, let me talk about another area that I think is really important. 
   Children's Defense Fund study this past year: Every day in America three young people under age 25 die from HIV infection, 6 children commit suicide; 13 children are homicide victims; 14 children are killed by firearms; 81 babies die; 280 children arrested for violent crime; 434 babies are born to mothers who have late or have no prenatal care; 781 babies are born at low-birth weights; 1,403 babies are born to teen mothers; 1,087 babies are born without health insurance; 2,430 babies are born into poverty; 2,756 children drop out of high school every schoolday; 3,346 babies are born to unmarried mothers; 5,753 children are arrested; 8,470 children are reported abused or neglected; 11.3 million children are without health insurance; and, 14.5 million children live in poverty. 
   Do we have a piece of legislation out here on the floor that deals with the fact that one out of every four children under the age of 3 in America are growing up poor? Do we have a piece of legislation that deals with the reality that one out of every two children of color under the age of 3 in America are growing up poor? 
   I was talking to about 350 principals in Minneapolis-St. Paul about 2 weeks ago. And they said to me, ``There is another issue, PAUL.'' It is not just that so many kids come to school way behind. Ed-Flex does nothing for those children. It is also that a lot of children come to school emotionally scarred. These children have seen violence in their homes. They have seen violence in their neighborhood. And they need a whole lot of additional support. 
   Is there a piece of legislation out on the floor that calls for the Federal Government to get resources to local communities, then let them be flexible, let them design the programs that can provide the support for these children? No. Not at all. Instead we get Ed-Flex. 
   Mr. President, we have a program in this country called Head Start. It does just what the title says it does. It is an attempt to give a head start to children who come from impoverished backgrounds. I am amazed at the men and women that are Head Start teachers. I am amazed at the men and women that are child care workers. Their work is so undervalued. They barely make above minimum wage. Do we have a piece of legislation out here on the floor that provides more funding for Head Start? No. Mr. President, instead, we have a budget from the President that essentially says that we will get the funding to one-half of the eligible Head Start families and children at best. It is an embarrassment. It is an embarrassment. We have a program, a Head Start program, to provide a head start for children from impoverished backgrounds. We know it makes a real difference, and we don't even provide the funding for half of the children that could benefit. I don't think that is pre-teen. I think that is just 4 and 5-year-olds, much less early Head Start. 
   Does Ed-Flex do anything about providing the support for children for the Head Start program? No. Does it speak to early childhood development? No. Does it speak to afterschool care? No. My colleagues will have amendments on the floor. And good for them. We will be supporting them and speaking for them about smaller class sizes, about rebuilding crumbling schools, about involving parents, about giving children hope. All of that is important. Does this piece of legislation deal with any of that? No. 
   Mr. President, I am going to present some jarring statistics that translate into personal terms tomorrow about the whole lack of equity financing in education. I will draw from my friend, Jonathan Kovol, who wrote ``Savage Inequality.'' It is incredible that some children in our country--probably not the children of Senators and Representatives--go to schools without adequate lab facilities, without enough textbooks, without proper heat, delapidated buildings. And they don't have the financing. They don't have the financing for computers. They don't have the financing so students can be technologically literate. They don't have the financing for the best teachers. There are huge disparities. 
   Does this piece of legislation called Ed-Flex do anything to deal with the fact that we have such dramatic inequalities in access to good education for children in America? Does this piece of legislation, Ed-Flex, say that since our economy is doing so well, surely today we can provide a good educational opportunity for every child? No. It doesn't do any of that. What it does is it turns the clock back. 
   I can't believe so many of my colleagues have caved into this. How could we have let a bill come to the floor pretending to be a great initiative to improve the education of our children when it doesn't, and, in addition, turns the clock back and takes the accountability and takes some of the core requirements of title I, and no longer makes that the law of the land, no longer says that we have a national commitment, and essentially says to the States do what you want without any accountability? What do you think is going to happen to these children? Some States may be better. I hope it will be in Minnesota. I will tell you what. I will make some of my colleagues angry in other States. It will be worse. It will be worse. 
   That is why we have title I. That is why we have the IDEA program. We  know that unless you have a real commitment to children--IDEA is not covered in this bill. But unless you have a real commitment to children with disabilities, or low-income children, they are not going to get the assistance or the support. 
   Let me now turn to the third argument I want to make tonight, and I will develop this in much more detail tomorrow. 
   Here is the other thing that is so disingenuous about this Ed-Flex legislation. We ought to have some direction--and I will try to have an amendment that talks about this--for funding. We are spending $8 billion a year, and that is about a third, according to the Congressional Research Service, of what we need to be spending if we are, in fact, going to reach all the children who are eligible for this help and all the schools that are eligible. And you know what. When I met with the teachers, when I met with the principals, when I met with the educators in my State of Minnesota, they could not identify one provision in title I right now that needs to be changed in order for them to have the flexibility to do their best for children. And when we get into the debate, I am going to ask my colleagues to list what exactly the provisions are that create the problem, that create the impediment for the reform to do our best by these children. So far I haven't heard of any. I haven't heard of one statute. I haven't seen any of my colleagues identify one statute. 
   I will tell you what the men and women who are involved in education and who care about children tell me about title I. ``Senator, we don't have enough funding.'' That is what this is all about. We don't provide enough funding, and then it becomes a vicious zero sum game. So, for example, if you are a school with over 50 percent low-income children, you get some help for those children, but if you are under 50 percent, even though you have a lot of children, you don't get any funding at all. That is because we have such a limited amount of funding, and when we divide it up in our school districts, we allocate it to the schools with the highest percentage of poor children, but then many other schools with many poor children don't get any funding at all. 
   Let me give some examples. St. Paul. There are about 60 K-12 public schools in the St. Paul School District in Minnesota. There are 20 schools in St. Paul with at least 50 percent free and reduced lunch that receive no title I funds at all. One-third of St. Paul schools have significant poverty and receive no title I funds to help eliminate the achievement or learning gap. 
   There it is right there. Where is the discussion of the funding? We are making Ed-Flex out to be some great thing for our school districts and our local communities and we are not providing the resources that are needed. 
   Example. Five senior high schools receive no title I funding. Humboldt Senior High has 68 percent of its students on free and reduced lunch, no title I. A school with a 68 percent low-income population doesn't receive any title I funding because after we allocate it, there is so little that it goes to schools with an even higher percentage of low-income students. There is nothing left. 
   Let's get honest and let's get real and let's talk about funding if we want to make a difference. 
   Several middle schools receive no title I funding. Battle Creek Middle School has 77 percent free and reduced lunch but receives no title I funds. Frost Lake Elementary School, 68 percent free and reduced but no title I. Eastern Heights Elementary School, 64 percent free and reduced but no title I. Mississippi Magnet Elementary School, 67 percent of the students are low income, no title I. 
   The St. Paul School District in Minnesota, if it had another $8 million, could reduce class size, it could increase parental involvement, it could have good community outreach, and it could hire additional staff to work with the students who have the greatest need. But we don't have the funding. And we have a bill out here called Ed-Flex that pretends to be some great, some significant commitment to children and to education in our country. Can't we do better than that? 
   Let me talk about Minneapolis, and this is just a draft of what Minneapolis is expecting on present course. Here is what Minneapolis is going to get with Ed-Flex but no additional funding. This is basically what is going to happen. Of the 87 K-12 schools in Minneapolis, 31 schools will receive no title I funds, 14 schools which have at least a 50 percent low-income student population will receive no title I. That is unbelievable. Schools that have over 50 percent low-income student population do not receive any funding because there is not enough funding. I don't hear any discussion in this Ed-Flex bill about funding or pointing us in the direction of additional funding. 
   Let me give some examples. Burroughs Elementary School, 43 percent free and reduced, will receive no title I funding. Anthony Elementary School, 42 percent low-income, no title I funding. They would use the money for afterschool tutoring to improve math and science, to improve technology, to increase staffing and to improve parental involvement. Marcy Open Elementary School, 44 percent low-income, no title I funding. The school is in danger of losing 10 educational assistants because the funding level doesn't keep up with the kids and what needs to be done. Kenny Elementary School, 39 percent low-income, no title I funding. This school would use the additional resources, if they had them, for additional tutors in small group instruction, to buy certain computer-assisted instruction, make the ``Read Naturally'' Program available to more students, and focus on the students who are English language learners. No funding. Dowling Urban Environmental Learning Center, 45 percent free and reduced lunch, no title I, and they would use this to help prevent students from becoming special ed students, do early intervention to help students succeed. 
   Well, Mr. President, I don't know how much time I have remaining tonight. How much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Six minutes. Well, let me just kind of read from--I will give plenty of examples tomorrow of great success, but I have just a few comments from constituents of mine. Vicki Turner says:  
   The title I program of the Minneapolis public schools provided not only help for my two children, but the parental involvement program was crucial in helping me develop as an individual parent and now as a teacher for the program.  
   Gretchen Carlson Collins, title I director, Hopkins School District, said:  
   There is no better program in education than title I of the ESEA. We know it works.  
   John and Helen Matson say:  
   How can anyone question the need for a strong ESEA. Ed-Flex waivers are an invitation to undermine the quality of public school systems.  
   High school senior Tammie Jeanelle Joby was in title I in third grade.  
   Title I has helped make me the hard-working student that I am. My future plan after high school is to attend St. Scholastica. I may specialize in special education or kindergarten.  
   And the list goes on. 
   Mr. President, tomorrow I will develop each of these arguments. Tonight, let me just kind of signal to my colleagues that I am debating this motion to proceed, and I will have amendments and I will fight very hard on this piece of legislation because this is a rush to recklessness. Unfortunately, the recklessness has to do with the lives of children in America, specifically poor children in America. And I find it hard to believe that we have a piece of legislation which will have such a critical and crucial impact on the lack of quality of lives of children in our country that we brought this piece of legislation to the floor of the Senate without even a hearing, and we brought this piece of legislation to the floor of the Senate without even seeing how different Ed-Flex States, which are part of the demonstration projects, are doing right now. 
   Mr. President, I am not going to let my colleagues, Republicans or Democrats, pretend that this piece of legislation represents some major step forward for education for children in America. It does not. I think at least some of my colleagues--Senator KENNEDY spoke about this--are going to have some amendments that I think really will make a difference. 
   Second, I am going to make it as clear as I can tomorrow, and as crystal clear as I can with amendments and with debate--and I am ready for the debate--that in no way, shape or form is  it acceptable for the U.S. Senate to support a piece of legislation which essentially turns its back on or abandons our national commitment to poor children in America to make sure that the standards are met, that there are good teachers, that the money goes to the neediest schools and the neediest children, that there are high standards, that the schools are required to meet those standards, that we have some evidence of progress being made. The core requirements of title I must remain intact. 
   This piece of legislation on the floor right now does not require this to be the case. This piece of legislation essentially removes those core requirements and leaves up to the States what they want to do. This piece of legislation essentially wipes away the requirement that the money should go to the neediest schools first and allows States to do what they want to do. That is not acceptable. That is an abandonment of our commitment to low-income children in America. I look forward to this debate. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that John Bradshaw and Sarah Nelson, a fellow and an intern, be granted the privilege of the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleague, Senator MACK, and I am certainly pleased to be here on the floor with Senator HUTCHINSON. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. The article talks about the release of Mr. Liu, a prominent dissident, who left his cell. He will be with us at a press conference tomorrow. What Wei Jingsheng had to say is that after Mr. Liu was released,  
   ......many Western reports [the administration talked about this as a triumph] said he had been ``freed'' or ``released" [to Wei Jingsheng].  
   He goes on to say,  
   One year ago, after 18 years in a Chinese prison, I, too, was ``released.''  
   Of course, the problem is he was told by the Chinese Government that if he ever set foot in the country again, he would be immediately returned to freedom. It is hard to argue that this is what in the United States we would call freedom at all.  
   Yet the State Department, in a report last January, [Wei Jingsheng goes on to say] used my forced exile [and that is what it is] as evidence that China was taking ``positive steps in human rights'' and that ``Chinese society continued to become more open.''  
   These ``positive steps'' led the United States and its allies to oppose condemnation of China at a meeting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights last April. Senator HUTCHINSON, I, and Senator MACK came to the floor. We got 95 votes calling on our Government to take the lead with the resolution condemning these widespread violations of human rights in China. 
   Here is the key part of Wei Jingsheng's piece:  
   Thus without fear of sanction, the Chinese government intensified its repression in 1998. Once the leaders achieved their diplomatic victories, they turned to their main objective: The preservation of tyrannical power. This year, about 70 people are known to have been arrested, and in recent weeks the government has greatly stepped up the pace.  
   My colleague, Senator HUTCHINSON, talked about Zhong Ji and Shao She Chang today. I want to quote from the Washington Post: ``Chinese police detained two dissidents.'' What did they want to do? Why are they now detained? Why do they face imprisonment? They want to meet with our Secretary of State when she visits China to talk about human rights. For that, they have been detained and face possible, probable imprisonment. 
   We have offered a resolution today that condemns China's human rights record. We call upon our Government to introduce a resolution condemning China's human rights record at the next session of the U.N. Commission on Human Rights which meets in March. We also call on our Government to begin immediately contacting other governments to ask them to cosponsor such a resolution. 
   When President Clinton formally delinked trade and human rights in 1994, he pledged on the record that the United States would ``step up its efforts, in cooperation with other states, to insist that the United Nations Human Rights Commission pass a resolution dealing with the serious human rights abuses in China.'' That is what the President of the United States of America has said. 
   Now, he also said that we would speak out on human rights, but the fact of the matter is, we have increased our trade, our military contacts, we have gone forward with high-level summits. In the meantime, Chinese Government leaders continue to crack down on every last dissident in a country of over 1 billion 
   people. We have seen what has happened this past year. 
   It is time for our country, the United States of America, which stands for democracy and freedom, to go to this United Nations Commission on Human Rights and to introduce this resolution supporting the brave people in China who stand up for human rights. That is what this resolution is all about. 
   The Chinese Government--and my colleague has talked about this--continues to commit widespread abuses and, since the President's visit in June, has flagrantly violated international human rights agreements. 
   Examples: Recently it sentenced three of China's most prominent prodemocracy advocates, Xu Wenli, Wang Youcai, and Chin Yougmin, to a combined prison term of 35 years. These disgraceful arrests were part of a crackdown by the Government on efforts--to do what? These Chinese citizens wanted to form a political party. For that, they face a combined 35-year prison sentence. 
   Further, a businessman in Shanghai, Lin Hai, is now being tried for providing e-mail addresses to a prodemocracy Internet magazine in the United States. Bill Gates, America Online, it is time for you to get engaged in this. You ought to be supporting human rights in China. 
   Another democracy activist, Zhang Shanguang, was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison for giving Radio Free Asia information about protests by farmers in the Hunan province. This is all about organizing. I say to labor, this is all about the right of people to organize and to speak out. And for this, this man is now been sentenced to 10 years in prison. 
   These events are all part of a pattern of growing repression, with legislation passed, when artists and press are told: If you do anything to ``endanger social order'' or attempt to ``overthrow state power,'' we will round you up and we will throw you in prison. 
   Mr. President, these dissidents and these courageous men and women in China deserve our full backing. 
   At the June meeting in Beijing, President Clinton engaged in a spirited debate on human rights with President Jiang Zemin. In light of this brutal recent crackdown, all of which has taken place since the President visited China, all of which has taken place since the United States refused to bring a resolution before the Human Rights Commission in the United Nations, I and my colleague, Senator HUTCHINSON, urge, and I think we will have 90-some votes that will urge, the administration to bring a resolution at Geneva in March and to continue to register our deep concern about the absence of freedom of expression and association and the use of arbitrary detention in China. Past experience has shown that if we apply the pressure, it can make a difference. By sponsoring a resolution at the United Nations Human Rights Commission, the United States will be showing our commitment to international human rights standards. 
   Mr. President, my colleague from Arkansas spoke about this. On October 5, 1998, China finally signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. When I talked to Sandy Berger, a friend, last year, he said to me: Look, we don't think we need to go forward with this resolution condemning China on human rights abuses at the U.N. Commission on Human Rights, because they are going to make a commitment, and they will sign this International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
   What have they done? They have not taken the steps to make 
   it binding, and, more importantly, they violated what the whole agreement is. 
   We have seen in this last year a very clear pattern of more and more and more repression, Chinese citizens imprisoned for trying to form a political party, Chinese citizens imprisoned for writing articles, Chinese citizens in prison for trying to organize so they can get a better price as farmers, so they can get better wages as workers. It is time for the United States Government to provide the leadership which the courageous people in China depend upon. 
   Mr. President, I have had the great honor--and I don't know about Senator HUTCHINSON, but I think he would say the same thing--of becoming friends, and I feel almost small saying that, because Wei Jingsheng is such a great  man, I have to pinch myself to remind me there is somebody who spent over 20 years in prison because he had the courage to stand up against a government, he had the courage to write and to speak out for what he thought was good and right for people in China. I don't think I could ever have the courage to do so. Thank God, I live in the United States of America. He is a Chinese dissident who spent so much time in prison because of his courage. 
   In an article published shortly after his release, Mr. Wei Jingsheng stated,  
   Democracy and freedom are among the loftiest ideals of humanity, and they are the most sacred rights of mankind. Those who already enjoy democracy, liberty and human rights in particular, should not allow their own personal happiness [this is what he said, Mr. President] to numb them into forgetting that many others who are still struggling against tyranny, slavery and poverty, and all those who are suffering from unimaginable forms of repression, exploitation and massacres.  
   We shouldn't forget such people. We shouldn't take our freedom for granted. And we, the United States of America, ought to take the lead in bringing this resolution before the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. 
   When you talk to people around the world--and we are talking about China today--Senator HUTCHINSON, they will tell you that maybe Senators don't realize this, maybe we have this debate on the floor of the Senate, and then we have a vote, but what a difference this makes to the people in these countries who have the courage. 
   We are going to get a strong vote at 12 o'clock today and we are sending a signal to the White House it is time for our Government to take the lead. I hope we will get the leadership from the White House. I hope we get the leadership from the Secretary of State. I certainly hope that the U.S. Senate will go on record today with a strong bipartisan vote. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, how much time do I have? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield 5 minutes to my colleague from Wisconsin, Senator FEINGOLD. I think his model is one of consistency. He is consistent on human rights questions, and he is absolutely one of the most forceful and effective leaders in the U.S. Congress for human rights. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I want to say to my colleague from Wisconsin that we are really going to put the pressure on. We are going to have this vote today. It is going to be an overwhelmingly strong vote. 
   Tomorrow, the State Department will be releasing its report on human rights conditions in other countries. It surely has to be critical about China, because of the action we are going to take. 
   The Chinese Embassy is going to have a press conference here in Washington as well. We are going to have a press conference tomorrow bringing together any number of different people--those Senators and Representatives who are still here. We are going to be joined by Mr. Wu, a very courageous man, Harry Wu, Wei Jingsheng, and human rights organizations. 
   We are going to keep the pressure up. We are going to keep the pressure on. 
   The end of our resolution says:  
   Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that at the 55th Session of the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva, Switzerland, the United States should introduce and make all efforts necessary to pass a resolution calling upon the People's Republic of China to end its human rights abuses in China and Tibet.  
   As I said to my colleague, Senator HUTCHINSON, we haven't talked much about Tibet. Let me just say in deference to some of the work of Senator HELMS, who really wanted us to have an ambassador to Tibet, the compromise agreement was to have Julia Taft become our Special Coordinator on Tibet out of the U.S. State Department. The Chinese Embassy has refused to meet with Julia Taft. They won't even meet. The Chinese Embassy, whatever they say in their press conference tomorrow, will not even meet with Julia Taft, State Department Special Coordinator on Tibet. What we were told last year was, no, we shouldn't go forward as a government and introduce this resolution on human rights at the Human Rights Commission in Geneva. 
   Senator HUTCHINSON is right. This is the forum. This is the place. This is the international body. When we do, as an international community, focus on  human rights issues--and we were silent last year. Silence is betrayal. And we are insisting today on the floor of U.S. Senate that our Government no longer be silent on these questions. 
   We were told last year, first of all, there will be a lessening of repression. The Chinese Government is going to sign this covenant. They did. We see more repression. We were told that in Tibet that visitors would be allowed to Tibet. You know what happened. Mary Robinson, who was our ambassador on human rights to the United Nations, went to China. Her visit took place in September 1998. But Chinese officials produced none of the information she requested on prisoners, denied her access to Panchen Lama. Panchen Lama is the youngest political prisoner that we know of in the world. She had no access to him. And they made no specific commitments on ratification of two U.N. human rights treaties. They signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, but they produced no timetable for ratifying it. And they clearly violated it. 
   I ask you. I ask the administration. I ask the President. The President made a commitment that when we deal in trade in human rights--that is what this debate is about. This is not a debate about MFN. It is not about whether or not trade should be linked to human rights. I think that it should and others don't. I don't know if Senator HUTCHINSON and I agree or not agree. This is about a different issue. The President of the United States of America said he would put the pressure on at Geneva at the Human Rights Commission. That is the place. And we haven't done it. 
   Last year we had this vote. We have a stronger vote this year. And in spite of our vote, our Government ignored the wishes of the U.S. Senate. This time we are saying don't do that. We are saying you can't argue, our Government can't argue, the State Department can't argue, the President can't argue, the Secretary of State can't argue--that what has happened is, after the President's visit, we have seen now more respect for human rights. They can't argue that there is less repression. They can't argue that there is progress in China or Tibet. 
   We are saying today that if our Government does not introduce this resolution condemning the widespread violations of human rights by the Chinese Government at this important U.N. Human Rights Commission gathering in Geneva in March, then our silence will be betrayal. 
   We should introduce this resolution. As Senator HUTCHINSON said, we should garner support for it. We should urge the European Community also to come out with a strong resolution. 
   I want to tell Senator HUTCHINSON that I understand the German Government is looking at the wording of this resolution, and they may very well lead the way with other European countries. It is time to do so. 
   I feel strongly about this. I don't want to be self-righteous at all, but my father fled persecution in Russia in 1914 when he was 17 years of age with czarist Russia. Then there was the revolution. And he thought all the country would be better. And then his parents wrote and said, ``Don't come back.'' The Communists had taken over. And he never went back. 
   My dad passed away in 1983. Sheila and I finally visited where my dad grew up in 1991. It was pretty clear to us that his family was probably all murdered by Stalin. All communication was broken off during the Stalin era. The letters stopped. 
   I was raised in a home where I was told by my dad really almost every day--every night, at 10 at night, starting in high school--he was kind of an embarrassment when I was younger, because he was very ``old country.'' He was almost 50 when I was born, and he wasn't ``cool.'' But when I got to be high school age, I realized what a treasure he was. He could speak 10 languages fluently, and was the wisest, best person I ever knew in my life. 
   We would have hot tea and sponge cake at 10 at night--not on the weekend, but Monday through Thursday, and I would listen to him talk about the world. My father Leon would talk about the importance of the first amendment rights, about the importance of human rights, and about the importance of freedom. 
   I am telling you that I feel as if that is what our Government is all about. That is what the United States of America is all about. That is what we are all about. And we ought to be speaking out on this and we ought to be taking the lead in Geneva. That is what our resolution says, I say to the Senator. 
   Mr. President, I think what I will do, we will have a vote coming up soon, and although I love to speak on this and I am very committed to this, I would like for Senator HUTCHINSON to make our concluding remarks, because I want to say to Senator HUTCHINSON, he is right, we don't agree on everything. In fact, this could be the end of my reputation, being out on the floor of the Senate with him. 
   Actually, being a little more serious, it has been a labor of love, working with Senator HUTCHINSON on this. We are just starting. We are not going to let up. I would like the Senator to conclude on this. I thank the Senator very much for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I yield back the rest of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I wonder if I could ask unanimous consent to gain my time back. I would like Senator HUTCHINSON to finish. How much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. May I give 5 minutes to the Senator from California? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I say to my colleague, the problem is we are going to have a vote soon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I know Senator HUTCHINSON thanked the majority leader. I also want to thank the majority leader for his support in doing this. He is right. It is timely. We do want to ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, may I ask my colleague from Virginia--I wasn't clear; he was about to table the Rockefeller amendment. 
   I ask my colleagues whether I could have 2 minutes in support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, let me thank the Senator from Virginia for his graciousness, and also Senator GRAHAM from Florida. 
   Let me just say to Senator ROCKEFELLER that I think the time is right for his amendment to authorize a Medicare Subvention pilot project. We have been through this year after year after year. We have a veterans' health care system that is really struggling with a flat-line budget. 
   My colleague from West Virginia has shown a lot of leadership on a lot of issues that affect the veterans community. Look, we need to at least have this Medicare Subvention on a pilot project basis. We need to think about a stable source of funding for veterans' health care. Give veterans the choice whether to go to VA for their health care. It should be their choice. 
   We have such a demonstration project within DOD right now. We ought to be able to do this within the Veterans' Administration. Veterans organizations feel strongly about this. This is the time to support the Rockefeller amendment because the whole question of recruitment, and whether or not young women and men want to serve in our armed services is directly related to how they feel they are going to be treated when they are no longer in the armed services, when they are veterans. Will there or will there not be support for the veterans' health care system? This Rockefeller amendment is a terribly important step in the direction of making sure we have good veterans health care. And I would like to include my name as an original cosponsor, if that is all right with my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will be very brief. I do have an amendment I want to bring to the floor in a moment, if that is the direction we are going. 
   Let me just say to my colleague from Delaware, the argument that we ought to wait until we see what happens with this pilot project within DOD is an apples-and-oranges proposition. First of all, it is going to be another year before we know what happens with the DOD pilot, and, second of all, these are two different health care systems. These are two different health care systems. 
   The point is, we say it is fine to go ahead with DOD and do a Medicare subvention pilot project, but when it comes to our veterans--our veterans--that's another story. I say to my colleagues again, whether or not men and women want to serve in the armed services is directly correlated to how they are going to be treated when they are veterans. When it comes to veterans, we should have done this a year ago. 
   It just doesn't cut it to say, ``Well, we have to wait for another year to see how the pilot works out with DOD.'' That is a very different health care system. A year ago we should have had this Medicare subvention demonstration model within the Veterans' Administration, and we are able to do it now. We want to do it. That is why we bring this to the floor. 
   Finally, let me point out, on the whole budget problem--Senator ROCKEFELLER said it--this amendment is budget neutral. These are new users of the VA system. Everybody who has talked about Medicare subvention has made it crystal clear that there are no negative financial implications for the Medicare trust fund. 
   I am sorry, these arguments don't cut it. If colleagues want to vote against this, they can vote against it. I will just tell you, I think a vote to table the Rockefeller amendment, the amendment that Senator JEFFORDS has worked on, the amendment that I am very proud to support--I have to say it this way, and I am not playing politics--it really is a vote against veterans. 
   In Minnesota, I don't find any topic to be more a topic of discussion among the veterans community than health care. I don't find any greater concern than the concern as to whether or not we are going to have a stable source of funding for veterans' health care. This is just a pilot project that takes us in this direction. I cannot believe my colleagues are going to come out on the floor of the Senate and table this. I hope we get a vote against the tabling motion. 
   Other than that, Mr. President, I don't feel strongly about it. 
   Mr. JEFFORDS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I would defer to my colleague. I actually rise for the purpose of offering an amendment, but if my colleague wants to respond to the Rockefeller amendment, I would defer to him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I will go forward with this other amendment because I know my colleagues are anxious to move along. 
   Let me just say to my colleague from Delaware, I have here a memorandum of agreement between the Department of Veterans Affairs and Health and Human Services to go forward with this subvention project. We already have the memorandum of agreement. They are ready to go. All they need is for the U.S. Senate to go on record saying we support it. 
   One more time, I will just say to my colleagues, sometimes the debate is all civil, but sometimes it is with some strong feeling. I think the veterans community is becoming very impatient with us, and for very good reasons. They have every reason in the world to wonder about VA health care as they look forward to the future. And this amendment is but one small step toward trying to figure out one piece of stable funding. I think it is a terrible mistake to come out here and to move  to table this amendment. And the point I made earlier I think still stands. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I would like to speak about an amendment that I will offer soon. I do so for purposes of moving our deliberations forward in the U.S. Senate. This amendment is identical--although I may make some changes if we are able to reach a compromise--but in its present form, it is identical to S. 1385, the Justice for Atomic Veterans Act, which I introduced in the 105th Congress. An amended version of this bill was reported out of the Veterans' Affairs Committee on July 28, 1998. 
   This amendment would remove some of the frustrating and infuriating obstacles that have too often kept veterans who were exposed to radiation during military service from getting the disability compensation they deserve. My amendment clears the way for these veterans by adding some radiogenic diseases--we are now negotiating which ones--to the list of diseases that are presumed service-connected. This is, colleagues, the only solution. It is the only way of ensuring that ``atomic veterans'' have any realistic chance of proving their disability claims. And our treatment of atomic veterans is, Mr. President, a long and sad and shameful history in our country. 
   Why am I offering this amendment now? The rationale for S. 4 is to recruit young people for service in the military, and retain them by enhancing pay, retirement, and educational benefits. 
   I hope my colleagues will agree that potential recruits may be influenced by more than just the pay and the benefits. Senator CLELAND's committee amendment certainly recognizes that one important factor in recruitment and retention is the way we treat our veterans after they leave the service. 
   I very much agree that the way we treat our veterans does send an important message to young people considering service in the military. When veterans of the Persian Gulf war do not get the kind of treatment they deserve, when the VA budget, year after year, does not give veterans a stable source of funding for VA health care, when veterans' benefits claims take years and years to resolve--so people are waiting 3 years for compensation--the message that we are sending to prospective recruits is not a very encouraging one. 
   Making sure we treat veterans right is, in fact, the philosophy behind the Rockefeller amendment. How can we attract and retain young people in the service when our Government fails to honor its obligation to provide just compensation and health care for those injured during service? 
   One of the most outrageous examples of our Government's failure to honor its obligation to veterans involves the atomic veterans, patriotic Americans who were exposed to radiation at Hiroshima and Nagasaki and at atmospheric nuclear tests. 
   I want to say this to colleagues. Before you consider tabling the amendment--and I hope you do not--and before you consider your vote, please examine this history with me. For more than 50 years, many of these atomic veterans have been denied compensation for diseases that the VA recognizes as being linked to their exposure to radiation--diseases known as radiogenic diseases. Many of these diseases are lethal forms of cancer. 
   I received my first introduction to the plight of atomic veterans--and there is no issue I feel more strongly about as a Senator--from some first-rate mentors, the members of the Forgotten 216th. The Forgotten 216th was the 216th Chemical Service Company of the U.S. Army which participated in Operation Tumbler Snapper. Operation Tumbler Snapper was a series of eight atmospheric nuclear weapons tests in the Nevada desert in 1952. 
   About half of the members of the Forgotten 216th were Minnesotans. What have I learned from them and from other atomic veterans? What have I learned from their survivors? And how has this shaped my views as a U.S. Senator? 
   Five years ago, the Forgotten 216th contacted me after then-Secretary of Energy Hazel O'Leary announced that the U.S. Government had conducted radiation experiments on its own citizens. And for the first time in public, these veterans revealed what happened to them in Nevada during the tests and the tragedies and the traumas that they, their families, and their former buddies have experienced since then. 
   Because their experiences and problems typify those of atomic veterans nationwide, I would like to tell my colleagues a little more about the Forgotten 216th. In fact, I am proud to talk about them on the floor of the U.S. Senate. I am pleased to take up some time talking about these atomic veterans. When you hear their story, I think you will agree that the Forgotten 216th and other veterans like them must never be forgotten again. 
   Members of the 216th were sent to measure fallout at or near ground zero immediately after nuclear blasts in Nevada. They were exposed to so much radiation that their Geiger counters went off the scale while they inhaled and ingested radioactive particles. They were given minimal or no protection by the Government. 
   They frequently had no film badges to measure radiation exposure. They were given no information on the perils they faced. And now, 50 years later, we say we don't have the money to provide them compensation. 
   After all this, they were sworn to secrecy about their participation in the nuclear tests. They were often denied access to their own service medical records and they were provided no medical follow-up. 
   For decades, atomic veterans have been America's most neglected veterans. They have been deceived and treated shabbily by the Government they so selflessly and unquestioningly served. 
   If the U.S. Government can't be counted on to honor its obligation to these deserving veterans, and that is what this amendment is about, how can young people interested in military service have any confidence the Government will do any better by them? If we don't finally provide compensation to these veterans, what does that tell young people who are thinking about serving in the armed services? 
   Mr. President, I believe that the neglect of the atomic veterans should stop here and now. Our Government has a long overdue debt to these patriotic Americans, a debt that we in the Senate can help to repay. And we can repay it now. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help repay this debt by supporting this amendment. 
   This legislation and this amendment have enjoyed the strong support of veterans service organizations. Both the American Legion and the Disabled American Veterans, DAV, provided strong letters of support to the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee for its April 1998 hearing. They have also written letters of support for this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Let me briefly describe the problem that my amendment is intended to address. When atomic  veterans try to claim VA compensation for their illness--this is the problem--the VA almost invariably denies their claims. VA tells these veterans that the radiation doses were too low--below 5 rems. But the fact is, we don't really know that, and even if we did, that is no excuse for denying these claims. 
   The result of this unrealistic standard is that it is almost impossible for these atomic veterans to prove their case. The only solution is to add the conditions in my amendment to the VA presumptive service-connected list. That is what my amendment does. It covers a whole range of cancers that should be a part of these diseases. They should get compensation. 
   First of all, trying to go back and determine the precise dosage each of these veterans was exposed to is a futile undertaking. Scientists agree that the dose reconstruction performed by the VA is notoriously unreliable. 
   The General Accounting Office itself has noted the inherent uncertainties of dose reconstruction. Even the VA scientific personnel have conceded its unreliability. And in a memo to VA Secretary Togo West, VA Under Secretary for Health Ken Kizer--and I thank Dr. Kizer for his courage--has recommended that the VA reconsider its opposition to S. 1385, in part based upon the unreliability of dose reconstruction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-8-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. In addition, none of the scientific experts who testified at the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee on S. 1385 on April 21, 1998, supported the use of dose reconstruction to determine eligibility for VA benefits. 
   Let me tell you why dose reconstruction is so difficult. Dr. Marty Gensler on my staff has researched this issue for over 5 years. This is what he has found. 
   Many atomic veterans were sent to ground zero immediately after a nuclear test with no protection, no information on the known dangers they faced, no badges or other monitoring equipment, and no medical follow up. 
   As early as 1946, ranking military and civilian personnel responsible for nuclear testing anticipated claims for service-connected disability and sought to ensure that--quote--no successful suits could be brought on account of radiological hazards. Unquote. 
   That quotation comes from documents declassified by the President's Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments. 
   The VA, during this period, maintained classified records--quote--essential--unquote--to evaluating atomic veterans' claims, but these records were unavailable to veterans themselves. 
   Atomic veterans were sworn to secrecy and were denied access to their own service and medical records for many years, effectively barring pursuit of compensation claims. 
   It's partly as a result of these missing or incomplete records that so many people have doubts about the validity of dose reconstructions for atomic veterans, some of which are performed more than fifty years after exposure. 
   Even if these veteran's exposure was less than 5 rems, which is the standard used by VA, this standard is not based on uncontested science. In 1994, for example, GAO stated: ``A low level dose has been estimated to be somewhere below 10 rems [but] it is not known for certain whether doses below this level are detrimental to public health.'' 
   Despite persistent doubts about VA's and DoD's dose reconstruction, and despite doubts about the science on which VA's 5 rem standard is based, these dose reconstructions are used to bar veterans from compensation for disabling radiogenic conditions. 
   The effects of this standard have been devastating. A little over two years ago the VA estimated that less than 50 claims for non-presumptive diseases had been approved out of over 18,000 radiation claims filed. 
   Atomic veterans might as well not even bother. Their chances of obtaining compensation are negligible. 
   It is impossible for many atomic veterans and their survivors to be given ``the benefit of the doubt'' by the VA while their claims hinges on the dubious accuracy and reliability of dose reconstruction and the health effect of exposure to low-level ionizing radiation remain uncertain. 
   This problem can be fixed. The reason atomic veterans have to go through this reconstruction at all is that the 10 diseases listed in my amendment are not presumed to be service-connected. That's the real problem. 
   VA already has a list of service-connected diseases that are presumed service-connected, but these 10 are not on it. 
   This makes no sense. Scientists agree that there is at least as strong a link between radiation exposure and these 10 diseases as there is to the other diseases on that VA list. 
   The President's Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments agreed in 1995 that VA's current list should be expanded. The Committee cited concerns that ``the listing of diseases for which relief is automatically provided--the presumptive diseases provided for by the 1988 law--is incomplete and inadequate'' and that ``the standard of proof for those without presumptive disease is impossible to meet and, give the questionable condition of the exposure records retained by the government, inappropriate.'' The President's Advisory Committee urged Congress to address the concerns of atomic veterans and their families ``promptly.'' 
   The unfair treatment of atomic veterans becomes especially clear when compared to both Agent Orange and Persian Gulf veterans. In recommending that the Administration support S. 1385, Under Secretary for Health Kenneth Kizer cited the indefensibility of denying presumptive service connection for atomic veterans in light of the presumption for Persian Gulf War veterans and Agent Orange veterans. 
   In 1993, the VA decided to make lung cancer presumptively service-connected for Agent Orange veterans. That decision was based on a National Academy of Sciences study that had found a link only where Agent Orange exposures were ``high and prolonged,'' but pointed out there was only a ``limited'' capability to determine individual exposures. 
   For atomic veterans, however, lung cancer continues to be non-presumptive. In short, the issue of exposure levels poses an almost insurmountable obstacle to approval of claim by atomic veterans, while the same problem is ignored for Agent Orange veterans. 
   Persian Gulf War veterans can receive compensation for symptoms, or illnesses that may be linked to their service in the Persian Gulf, at least until scientists reach definitive conclusions about the etiology of their health problems. Unfortunately, atomic veterans aren't given the same consideration or benefit of the doubt. 
   Mr. President, I believe this state of affairs is outrageous and unjust. The struggle of atomic veterans for justice has been long, hard, and frustrating. But these patriotic, dedicated and deserving veterans have persevered. My amendment would finally provide them the justice that they so much deserve. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join me in helping atomic veterans win their struggle by supporting my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-9-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Does my colleague from Virginia have a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-10-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I will tell you, I have been in the U.S. Senate now for 8 years, and I love to speak when it is an issue that is so important to me and so important to veterans. But if my colleagues are supporting my amendment, I thank them for their support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-11-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I send the amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-12-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-13-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I see the confusion. I have the other amendment based upon what I think is in negotiation that we have had. Let's listen to that amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-14-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I do. I thought I would see whether my colleagues were alert. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-15-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Senator. 
   Please help me get this done. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-16-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-17-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, on the Rockefeller amendment, I ask unanimous consent that Senator GRAMS of Minnesota and Senator ASHCROFT be added as cosponsors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-18-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-19-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, could we have order in the Chamber. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today, I am introducing legislation that outlines a comprehensive strategy for providing federal assistance to states and localities, to better serve children in need of mental health services who come in contact with our nation's juvenile justice system. I am pleased to be joined by Senators KENNEDY and LANDRIEU in this effort. The bill has received the strong support of over forty organizations including the American Bar Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the Children's Defense Fund, the United Church of Christ, and form states judges, probation and police officers. 
   Elie Wiesel once said: ``More than anything--more than hatred and torture--more than pain--do I fear indifference.'' We must be vigilant not to allow ourselves and our country to be indifferent to children's misery, particularly those children who may be sick, difficult, and test our patience, understanding, and compassion. 
   Yet, today, throughout America, I fear that we have become deeply indifferent to how we treat juveniles in the justice system who live in the shadow of mental illness. 
   Each year, more than one million youth come in contact with the juvenile justice system, and more than 100,000 of these youth are detained in some type of jail or prison. These children are overwhelmingly poor and a disproportionate number of children of color. 
   By the time many of these children are arrested and incarcerated, they have a long history of problems in their short lives. As many as two-thirds suffer from a mental or emotional disturbance. One in have has a  serious disorder. Many have substance abuse problems and learning disabilities. Most come from troubled homes. 
   The `crimes' of these children vary. While some have committed violent crimes, some have committed petty theft or skipped school. Still others have simply run away from home to escape physical or sexual abuse from parents or other adults. 
   Despite popular opinion, most of the children who are locked up are not violent. Justice Department studies show that only one in twenty youth in the juvenile system have committed violent offenses. 
   Jails and juvenile detention centers often find themselves unprepared to deal with the mentally ill. For instance, medication may not be given or properly monitored. Or, guards may not know, for example, how to respond to disturbed youth who simply is not capable of standing in an orderly line for meals. A common result is that these kids are disciplined and put in solitary confinement. 
   What is happening to these troubled children is national tragedy. Across the country, we are dumping emotionally disturbed kids into juvenile prisons. 
   Why do so many youth with mental illness end up in the justice system? Children with mental disorders often behave in ways that bring them into conflict with family members, authority figures, and peers. Over the last ten years, the public attitude toward juvenile crime has grown toughter. Consequently, the juvenile justice system is casting a wilder net. A growing fear and intolerance of children who misbehave or commit nonviolent offenses have pushed children into the juvenile system who would not have ended up there in earlier times. 
   At the same time, our country has failed to invest adequately in services and programs that could reduce the need for incarceration. These include mental health services. The warning signs for delinquency are well known--school failure, drug and alcohol abuse, family violence and abuse, and poverty. Yet, we have failed to put in place community prevention, screening, and early intervention services for those children most at risk. Proper mental health treatment can prevent or reduce offending. But many communities don't have adequate treatment services for children and their families. 
   For example, a recent report by Louisiana state officials acknowledged that secure facilities held many children who had been ``discarded'' from the educational, child welfare and other systems of care. I have heard that social workers in a number of states have been even instructed desperate parents to have their children arrested in order to get services because community health services are so scarce. 
   Last July, I went with the National Mental Health Association to the Tallulah 
   Correctional Center for Youth, a privately-owned correctional facility for over 600 youth in northeast Louisiana, to see firsthand the shocking civil rights violations cited by the U.S. Department of Justice. I left with vivid and disturbing images of how we are dealing with youth with mental and emotional problems in this country. 
   While in Tallulah, I saw one hallucinating and suicidal child in isolation for observation, yet his transfer to an appropriate mental health facility was uncertain. Another child I met was taking three different types of powerful psychiatric medications, but had only seen a psychiatrist twice in the last eight months. The Justice Department reports chronicled instances where boys were being repeatedly sexually and physically abused, and children with mental illnesses were being housed with youths who have committed violent crimes. Mentally ill children received no therapy, and when they were having symptoms, they were isolated or punished for their illness. 
   Tallulah is not the only offending facility, however. The Justice Department has exposed gross abuses in Georgia, Kentucky, and other juvenile facilities in Louisiana. Other states are also experiencing similar problems. Investigators found extreme cases of physical abuse and neglect of mental health needs, including unwarranted and prolonged isolation of suicidal children, hog-tie and chemical restraints used on youth with serious emotional disturbances, forced medication and even denial of medication. Children with extensive psychiatric histories who are prone to self-mutilation (e.g., cutting themselves with glass) never even saw a psychiatrist. 
   In some cases, abusive treatment of these children results directly from their being emotionally disturbed. Staff in juvenile facilities fail to recognize, and in fact punish them for, the symptom of their disorders. Children have been punished for requesting treatment or put in isolation when they refused to accept treatment. One child in a boot camp was punished for making involuntary noises that were symptoms of his Tourette's syndrome. Mental disorders are being handled almost solely through discipline, isolation, and restraints according to investigations by the US Justice Department and human rights groups. 
   A recent survey by the California Youth Authority found that 35 percent of boys in its custody and 73 percent of girls need treatment. One reason for the higher percentage of young people with mental illness in jail, specialists say, is that many states have cut budgets for adolescent psychiatric care, even more 
   than those for adults. 
   If a child had a broken leg, would any institution leave that leg unattended? Why then, in America, are we dumping children with mental health problems in institutions without treatment, and under conditions which can only worsen their illnesses? 
   Our current system fails mentally ill children. How? The screening and treatment of mental and emotional disorders are inadequate or nonexistent at correctional facilities. Mental illness is often addressed solely through discipline, isolation, and restraint. At Tallulah, children told us that they were beaten and were put in isolation for long periods, even months--echoing in painful detail what had been revealed in the Justice Department reports. 
   The tragedy of this situation is that we know what works--treatment--but our current system for children with mental illness favors punishment over treatment. For children, we know that family-focused, individualized treatment delivered in the child's community can improve children's mental health and prevent them from offending in the first place. It is proven that integrating these mental health and substance abuse services with schools and child welfare agencies produces even greater success. In fact, linked community services have been shown to reduce contact with the juvenile justice system by 46 percent. 
   My legislation would help states provide critical assistance to these children who suffer from mental disorders. It focuses on providing appropriate services that can both prevent them from committing delinquent offenses and from reoffending, and it is structured so that services are planned and integrated at the local level. 
   First, it provides funds to train juvenile justice personnel on the identification and appropriate treatment of mental illness in kids, and on the use of community-based alternatives to incarceration. Currently, juvenile justice system personnel lack routine training to deal with mentally ill youth, many of whose low risk factors make them good candidates for alternative treatment programs in the community. 
   Second, it authorizes a new treatment and diversion block grant program to state and localities. Despite studies showing large numbers of incarcerated children having psychiatric disorders, we know that screening, assessment 
   and treatment for children's mental disorders is grossly inadequate. Further, many of these kids have multiple problems before they are locked-up, and are involved with several different child agencies and systems. Typically, these agencies shift the care and costs for serving a child back and forth. The result is that the child and the family never receive the services they need. States will be able to access the new block grant funds to develop and implement integrated treatment and diversion programs for juveniles who come up against the police and the courts. 
   Third, it will establish training and technical assistance centers. Now, States do not have the information and technical assistance they need to provide appropriate services for youth with mental health disorders. Further,  it will establish a federal council which will report to Congress on recommendations to improve the treatment of mentally ill children who come into contact with the justice system. 
   Next, it will give States the choice whether to use their federal prison construction funds for treatment of incarcerated mentally ill and children. 
   Finally, if will amend the Prison Litigation Reform Act, by restoring to federal courts the authority to remedy abuse conditions in juvenile justice facilities. Congress passed the act in 1996 largely to reduce frivolous pro se lawsuits by prisoners, and nothing in my bill would affect those provisions of the PLRA. Yet, the PLRA has had a devastating effect on the conditions in which juvenile offenders and mentally ill prisoners are held. My provision would not repeal the PLRA or adversely effect the crackdown on frivolous lawsuits. Instead, it would carve out a narrow exception to the PLRA restrictions in limited circumstances, involving children and the mentally ill, for it has been shown again and again that they are particularly vulnerable to abuse and neglect in state institutions. 
   We can no longer be indifferent to this national tragedy. What I saw in Tallulah, and what is happening in countless facilities across this country, is a disgrace. The wholesale neglect of juveniles with mental illness in our prisons must end. We as a society have the moral obligation to see they get the help they need. Treating young people with mental disorders in dehumanizing ways is not the answer to questions of crime prevention and public safety. And it's not the way to make children productive, law abiding, and caring citizens. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, first of all, let me thank both my colleagues, the Senator from Virginia and the Senator from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk on behalf of myself and Senator MURRAY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-5-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, this amendment is simple and it is important. It calls on the Defense Department to issue new guidelines that will strengthen the privacy rights of victims of domestic violence who are spouses and children of our military employees. 
   Just a little bit of background. And it calls for this to be done in an expeditious manner, I think within a 9-month period. 
   Mr. President, domestic violence--actually, I am sorry to say on the floor of the Senate--is a huge problem and a huge issue in our country. About every 15 seconds a woman is battered in her home. A home should be a safe place, but all too often it is not. And this affects women and children. And I say this is nationwide, because I would not want any colleague to think that the focus here is just on the military. 
   Battering is one of the single greatest causes of injury to women. According to the Department of Justice statistics, of the 1.4 million hospital emergency room admissions in 1994, about a quarter of them were treated for injuries from domestic violence. The prevalence of violence against women associated with the U.S. Armed Forces is deeply disturbing. The dependent victims of violent crimes in the Armed Forces are particularly vulnerable due to isolation, the mobile lifestyle, and financial security--some of which we are trying to deal with in our legislation. 
   The Department of Defense data estimates that on average 23.2 per 1,000 spouses of military personnel experienced domestic violence in the last 5 years. According to an Army survey released to Time Magazine, spousal abuse is occurring in one of every three Army families each year. So unfortunately it is a problem. 
   Here is the problem that we are trying to rectify: In civilian society we recognize the confidentiality of communications so that if a woman sees a doctor or she sees someone else, a mental health worker or someone she needs to see to give her help, there is confidentiality. But we do not have the same confidentiality for spouses of our Armed Forces personnel and their children. And so what we are trying to do is to make sure that we have the same guarantees of confidentiality. 
   When you do not have the confidentiality--and, again, we believe and we agree that our military is absolutely correct that when it comes to those that are enlisted in the military, there is a problem with confidentiality because you want to know what is going on with that soldier if you are about to put that soldier in a combat situation. But I am not talking actually about the military; I am talking about the spouses and the children. We want to make sure that the victims are not retraumatized. 
   What happens too often, I say to my colleagues, right now--and I think there is an acknowledgement of this; I  think this amendment is a positive step; I really do--what happens all too often is that many women are afraid to step forward because the conversation they have with their doctor, or wherever they go, is not confidential; it becomes public, it becomes released to too many people. And therefore what happens is she has to worry that her husband may, in fact, take action against her. So many women are afraid. They are afraid to tell anyone about what is happening to them. They are afraid to tell anyone that they themselves are being battered or that their 
   children are being battered. 
   So let me just kind of conclude with an example. Annette--I do not want to use any full names--is the former wife of a naval chief petty officer and the mother of two young children. She was routinely beaten by him from June 1994 through 1996. Military protective orders and civilian restraining orders failed to protect her and her children. Her ex-husband was charged with 21 offenses by the U.S. Navy, including eight assault charges involving Annette. He was ultimately court-martialed. 
   During the military's investigation of abuse, she was interviewed in the presence of her batterer, and her batterer's command was notified, which resulted in a brutal escalation of the violence toward Annette. At his court-martial proceedings, her dating and marital history were reviewed publicly by prosecuting attorneys. 
   We need to ensure that military wives and dependents like Annette are given the same rights of privacy and confidentiality as civilian victims. That is what this is about. It calls on the Defense Department to basically issue some guidelines that will give these military wives and dependents the same rights of privacy and confidentiality that any other civilian victim has right now. 
   This will make an enormous difference, I say to my colleagues. We bring these amendments to the floor. I am so pleased it is supported. I thank both my colleagues for this. I certainly hope that we will keep this in conference committee. I hope I will have their support because this really will make an important difference. It is really very important. 
   I thank Senator MURRAY. I hope she will have time to come down. I thank both my colleagues for their support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-6-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I am pleased not to have a call for the yeas and nays, but rather a voice vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-7-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank my colleagues. Before we have the voice vote, I thank Charlotte Oldham-Moore of my staff for doing a lot of work, and I thank the people around the country for helping us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. Chief Justice, I want to explain my views publicly on the impeachment articles sent to us by a partisan vote of the House of Representatives, and on the removal of the President from office which they would prompt. 
   First, I am shocked and saddened that our Republican colleagues persistently have blocked our efforts to have open and public debates and discussion in our deliberations in this matter, and most especially in our deliberations on the final votes on whether to remove the President. Whatever their motives, this is not what a free, representative, accountable democracy is all about. Simply publishing partial transcripts of our proceedings, which include only some formal statements made by senators and not the deliberations themselves--and doing so only at the end of the trial--is, in my view, a great leap sideways. 
   I also want to describe what I think--and frankly have thought for months--is a more appropriate mechanism to express our disapproval of the President's behavior: a tough, bipartisan censure resolution which makes clear our contempt for what he's done in lying to his family, his friends, his staff, and the American people about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky; and the disgrace which those lies have placed upon his Presidency for all time. 
   In recent months, hundreds of Constitutional scholars--including many respected conservatives--have argued that, in their view, the Constitution does allow this censure vote; the Senate's precedents allow it; we have done it before. It's true that the Constitution is silent on the question of what else we can do in addition to removal; it is also true that the Constitution in no way prevents us from moving forward on censure. The argument that we are somehow blocked Constitutionally from censuring the President is contrived, and fraught with partisan pleading. 
   Even so, if we are ultimately blocked by a filibuster from a vote on censure, the President will not have escaped the judgment of Congress or the American people. Any Senator, in any venue they choose, can offer their own forceful, public censure of the President, repeatedly if they like. I certainly have. A corporate expression of the Senate's condemnation of the President's actions, while of course preferable, is not essential, for all of us already have made known our views. 
   We all condemn the President's behavior. It has been said so many times, it hardly bears repeating, were it not for the wilful, partisan attempts to mischaracterize a vote against removal as a vote to condone what the President has done. That is, of course, preposterous; the President has been impeached by the House. That has only happened once before in our history. The trial has gone forward, and every member of this body has condemned the President's behavior as unacceptable, meriting only scorn and rebuke. 
   It is clear that the President already has paid a terrible price in the eyes of history, not least in the shame and humiliation that this permanent mark on his presidency has caused him, his family, his friends and supporters, and his Administration. The message is clear, including to our young people: When one fails to tell the truth, there are real, sometimes even awful consequences and costs. The President's behavior was shameful, despicable, unworthy, a disgrace to his office. And in this long, sordid, painful process, I believe he has been held accountable for what he has done. 
   Pursued overzealously by Kenneth Starr and by House Judiciary Committee Republicans, the articles were then approved by the full House in a grossly unfair and partisan proceeding that was destructive both of our polity and our politics. All of us should be deeply troubled by it, and all should work together to put it behind us. In my view, these allegations should never have reached the Senate. But they have, and the trial has now been held. It has changed few, if any, minds on the basic facts, on how the law should be applied to those facts, or on the high bar for removal set by the Constitution. 
   Finally we bring to a close this long, sad year of investigations, hearings, and speeches. It has been a painful year. In many ways, it has been a lost year. Think of what we might have done this past year, had we not done this. Think of the news we could have made, had not all seen this. Think of the good laws that we could have written, had not this stood in the way. Think of the opportunities lost, the hopes staved off. We must ask with Langston Hughes, ``What happens to a dream deferred?'' 
   Sadly, so many opportunities for better, more prudent and proportionate judgment fell by the wayside. First, and most important, the President should have avoided this sorry relationship. Then, a little over a year ago, the President could have been more forthcoming and told the whole truth, instead of misleading us all. The American people could have handled it. Then, the Independent Counsel could have shown greater discretion in judging whether to bring this case forward. The leadership of the House of Representatives could have allowed a vote on censuring the President, instead of pushing the case forward to impeachment. They were wrong to thwart the will of what I expect would have been a House majority in so doing. And the Senate could have voted to dismiss the case and promptly and resolutely censured the President.  
   Instead, against better judgment, against all indications of the people's will, and against any shred of charity, an ardent and zealous minority pressed on. They had the right. They had the power. But they were wrong, and I believe history will so judge them. It is a supreme irony that the most conservative forces in our politics today have for months wielded the most radical option made available in the Constitution against this President: impeachment and removal. Aware of its dangers, our founders designed Constitutional protections against its abuse. This process has shown that those protections are not perfect; they require reasoned judgment in their application; judgment that has been missing in this process from day one. 
   Let us resolve to learn the lessons of this long, sad year. Let us learn now, having come this far, the wisdom of the founders that impeachment is and must be a high barricade, not to be mounted lightly. Let us learn that because it requires the overwhelming support of the Senate to succeed, it cannot and should not proceed on a merely partisan basis. Let us learn that the desire to impeach and remove must be shared broadly, or it is illegitimate. 
   Let us learn that the subject matter of impeachment must be a matter of great gravity, calling into question the President's very ability to lead, and endangering the nation's liberty, freedom, security. Let us learn that the case against the President must be a strong and unambiguous one in fact and in law, for even a President deserves the benefit of our reasonable doubts. 
   The charges brought against President Clinton do not rise to those levels. And even if they did, the case against him is neither strong nor unambiguous. As the White House defense team has made clear, there are ample grounds for doubt about both the facts and law surrounding each of the two articles before us. 
   It is true that the impeachment process has further alienated millions of Americans from their government, and that is a tragic harm for which the President bears considerable responsibility. It is also true, as we were told by Chairman HYDE yesterday, that the nobility and fragility of a self-governing people requires hard work, every day, to get it right, to fight the good fight, to discern the common good. But I believe, unlike him, that it is the impeachment process itself, both here and in the other body--its partisanship, its meanness and unfairness, its leadership by those who want to win too badly--which has increased people's cynicism; not the prospect of the President's ``getting away'' with something. 
   Our nation was founded on the Jeffersonian principle, ``that government is the strongest of which every man feels himself a part.'' What Jefferson and the other Founders feared was the warning of their counterpart Rousseau: ``As soon as any man says of 
   the affairs of State `What does it matter to me?' the state may be given up as lost.'' But while the many signs of disaffection among our people are growing, I do not think we have reached the point of no return; there is time in this Congress to recover from this episode, and to move on. 
   Despite the claims of pundits that Americans have simply tuned out, I think a deeper reality is present in their reactions, and in the polls. In fact, most Americans, in their wisdom, have reached a subtle, sophisticated judgment in this case, and have already moved beyond it. As is so often the case, they're way ahead of Washington. It is true that they abhor the President's behavior, but don't believe it merits his removal. In addition, they believe that there are larger issues facing the nation than the misdeeds that nearly all now concede the President committed: peace in the Middle East; the hunger of children; the health of Americans; saving our social security safety net; debating whether hundreds of billions of dollars of surplus should go to bolster Medicare, or to some combination of universal savings accounts or tax cuts. These are the things that the people sent us here to work on. These are the things that I hear about when I return to my state. 
   So let us now bring to a close, with our votes, this long, sad year of investigation and impeachment. And let us resolve that there shall be many a year before we have another one like it. It is time for our country to pull together to seek an end to the fractious partisanship that has defined this period, and to re-engage a full-throated, genuine debate about our nation's future that can help us find again that common ground that unites us as Americans, and that can serve as a firm foundation for resolving the many serious problems that still face our country--impeachment or not--today and tomorrow. 
   We should, as White House attorney Charles Ruff said, listen to the voices not merely of the advocates who have been before us, but of Madison, Hamilton, and the others who met in Philadelphia 212 years ago; of the generations of Americans since then; of the American people now, and of future generations of Americans. And if we do, we will do the right thing. 
   Congressman JOHN LEWIS observed in his final impeachment speech, in the end, we are ``one house, one family, one people; the American house, the American family, the American people.'' We are called together to come to judgment on this President, and then to return promptly to the pressing issues that lay before us, and that require our urgent attention. That judgment is by now clear: Bill Clinton should remain President; the censure of this body, and the historic impeachment that will ever attach to his name, will leave a permanent mark on his presidency. 
   I thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, for the fine work that you have done, and I thank both the majority leader and the minority leader for their leadership. I said to Senator LOTT, I think yesterday, I am still furious that we are in closed session and will say that, but I appreciate the way in which you have kept us together. I thank the two of you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I object. I would like to have a voice vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I ask unanimous consent that there be a 40-minute debate, equally divided, between the leaders or their designees in open session on the motion to suspend the rules. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-2-19990209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. Chief Justice, I have a question for the majority leader. I might not have heard this the right way. This would allow any Senator who so wishes to have his or her statements made in all of our--not just the final deliberations, but this would cover all of our sessions that have been in closed session; is that correct or not? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-3-19990209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. Chief Justice, if I could ask the majority leader whether he might be willing--it seems to me that if this is the principle, I wonder if he would amend his request to any Senator who wants to--and it is up to the Senator--this is far different than having our final deliberations a matter of public record, which is what I think we should do, but what you are saying is any Senator who so wishes can do so. Might that not apply to all of the closed sessions we had? It seems to me that the same principle applies. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-4-19990209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. Chief Justice, the majority leader is trying to get the floor, but I wonder whether I could not move that any Senator be allowed, if he or she makes it their choice, to have our statements that have been made and passed in closed session left entirely up to us to also be a part of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990204</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise today to express my deep concern over the apparent disregard for international standards of fairness and openness in the legal process in Peru. President Fujimori is visiting Washington today and is being congratulated by the President on resolving Peru's border dispute with Ecuador. During his visit, I think it is important to point out that under his rule democratic principles have been threatened in Peru and the basic civil rights of the Peruvian people have not been properly respected. 
   In his inaugural speech in July of 1990, President Fujimori stated that ``the unrestricted respect and promotion of human rights'' would be a priority of his government. His promises, though, quickly proved suspect as he solidified his control over what has been described as ``an authoritarian civilian military government''. 
   In April of 1992 he annulled Peru's constitution, dissolved the Legislature and purged most of the judiciary, most forcefully and notably those courts responsible for ensuring the civil rights of its citizens. Since this time independent monitoring groups like Amnesty International have documented numerous extrajudicial executions of peasant men, women and children, perpetrated by Peru's military and police forces who later attempted to conceal their actions. These executions have been determined by respected independent human rights organizations to have been orchestrated from the highest levels of the current Peruvian government, including two of President Fujimori's top advisors. 
   Human rights workers and journalists in Peru have been subjected to intimidation, death threats, abductions, and torturous interrogation and imprisonment by the Peruvian government in response to their attempts to hold responsible those who committed these atrocities. 
   President Fujimori's systematic dismantling of Peru's legislative and judicial systems has resulted in impunity for those who commit these acts of aggression. To investigate and determine accountability in these cases, the military has often served both as prosecutor and judge, keeping their identities  secret and under direct control of the executive branch. These ``faceless judges'' have also punished, without proper recourse or due process, and in direct violation of international law, those who challenge or call attention to their actions. According to the State Department's most recent human rights report the Peruvian government has eliminated the use of faceless tribunals, but much damage has already been done and many condemned by the faceless judges remain incarcerated. 
   I am especially concerned about the failure to respect due process in one case in particular. One individual who has directly suffered from the transgressions of Fujimori's authoritarian government is American journalist Lori Berenson. Her journalistic coverage of Peru's economically and politically disaffected was not popular with the Peruvian government. While 
   working in Peru in January of 1996 she was arrested and charged with involvement with terrorist organizations. According to human rights groups, she was tried without due process, little evidence, and without being allowed a defense. She was convicted of ``treason against the fatherland'' and sentenced to imprisonment for life. 
   The handling of this case has drawn widespread condemnation from human rights groups, the U.S. State Department, and even high ranking Peruvian officials. Many have pointed out that, by depriving Ms. Berenson of her right to defend herself in a fair trial by an impartial jury, the Peruvian government was in direct violation of numerous international treaties guaranteeing the legal rights of prisoners. The Commission of International Jurists, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and the United Nations Human Rights Committee are among the many respected organizations who have condemned Peru's actions and have urged that immediate measures be taken to abolish these practices which undermine internationally recognized fair trial standards. 
   Today, Lori Berenson remains incarcerated in a country with notoriously harsh prison conditions where she has been held in the total isolation of solitary confinement since October 7 of last year. According to her father she is suffering serious health problems. Amnesty International charges that the conditions under which she is imprisoned contravene the U.N. Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, a Convention to which Peru is a party. 
   I wanted to take this opportunity to urge President Fujimori to grant Lori Berenson a fair, open, and just trial as prescribed under international conventions. And I call on him to honor his pledge to all the Peruvian people to make the respect of basic legal, civil, and human rights a priority in his government.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I defer to my colleague from Illinois, Senator DURBIN, but I ask unanimous consent that Senator HARKIN and I be allowed to follow Senator DURBIN in speaking order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, let me, first of all, thank my colleague, Senator HARKIN. We have been working very hard on this. There are other Senators who support this motion--Senator LEAHY, Senator FEINGOLD, Senator BOXER, and Senator LIEBERMAN. And I know Senator HUTCHISON has indicated interest in this question. This will be a very important vote coming up next week. 
   First, let me just, if I could, Mr. President, say that I feel very honored to be speaking from Dale Bumpers' desk. I don't think there is anybody who could match his oratory, but I am sure lucky to have this desk and this long cord. And Dale Bumpers, wherever you are, I will do my very best to try to carry on in your tradition, or at least give it everything that I have. 
   Mr. President, next week before the Senate goes into its own deliberations on this question of whether to dismiss charges, we will take this one step at a time. We most definitely will try to move forward with a motion to suspend the rules so that the Senate deliberations will not be in closed session. We also would like to 
   make sure that the very debate as to whether our deliberations are in closed session or secret session be open to the public. And we will, on the floor of the Senate, make every effort possible to keep that debate in the open. 
   I am going to be very brief and just make the following arguments because there are some very, very good people who do a lot of work when it comes to interpretation of the rules. I will say, since the Parliamentarian is here, that Bob Dove has been eminently fair. He has treated all of us from both political parties with the utmost respect. 
   My own feeling about this is that this trial has been momentous. I personally wish that it had not come over from the House. I have always made my point that I believe the House overreached on the impeachment charges. But, Mr. President, they are here in the Senate. 
   I think here are the following questions: If in fact we as a Senate are going to go into deliberations over whether to dismiss the charges against the President, or later on whether we will have witnesses, or later on whether the President shall be removed, I cannot imagine that the U.S. Senate would go into closed session. I cannot imagine that our deliberations and our debate and the arguments we make would not be open to the public. 
   The public isn't going to believe in this political process if we go into secret or closed session. The public is not going to have trust in what we are doing if they don't get a chance to evaluate our debate and what we are saying and why we reached the conclusions we reached. 
   Mr. President, I really do believe that if there is to be healing in our country--and I certainly pray that there will be--it would be a terrible mistake for the U.S. Senators, Democrats or Republicans, to cut the public out. The part of the public that is looking at the proceedings right now, that is evaluating the arguments that are being made--and there are people who have made very good arguments on both sides of the question--to then say to them, ``Listen, when it comes to now the Senate, the U.S. Senate, going into our own deliberations and making our own decisions, you, the public, you're cut out of it,'' this goes against the very essence of accountability. It goes against the very essence of what a representative democracy is about. 
   Mr. President, some of these rules go back to 1868. That was a time when the U.S. Senators were not even directly elected. They were elected by State legislatures. The 17th amendment changed all that in 1913 as part of the Progressive movement and the progressive change in the country. The idea was that the U.S. Senators would be a part of representative democracy, directly elected by the people, accountable to the people. 
   This is a huge decision we are going to be making in the U.S. Senate. And I think it will be a terrible mistake for the U.S. Senate to go into closed session, to cut the public out, to not let people have the opportunity to hear what we are saying in the debate. 
   Mr. President, it is really quite amazing, if you think about it. People will know what our votes are--dismissal of charges, witnesses, whether the President should be removed from office--and somewhere there will be a transcript of the proceedings, but I don't think they will even be published. There will not even be a public record of what U.S. Senators--the Senator from Arkansas or the Senator from Minnesota or the Senator from Iowa--had to say in this debate.  
   I just say to all of my colleagues, I hope that, No. 1, you will agree to a unanimous-consent agreement that in our discussion or our debate whether or not we go into closed session, that it be open to the public. What an irony it would be if, in the very debate about whether or not our deliberations will be open or closed, our deliberations were closed. 
   It seems to me that debate ought to be open to the public. 
   Second, I certainly hope that we will have the two-thirds vote that it will take to suspend the current rule that says we must be in closed session. 
   Mr. President, I think it is important for the public right now to be engaged in this process. I hope people will be calling their Senators, because I really do believe that part of our deliberations, part of our modus operandi as Senators, whatever States we represent, should be to stay in touch with people. Of course, we reach our own independent judgment. We reach our own independent judgment about the facts, about the charges. 
   Then there is another question, the threshold question, about whether or not these charges rise to the level of removing a President from office. 
   I think part of what we are about as Senators is to try to stay in close touch with the public, with people in our States, whatever decision we make. It can be a matter of individual conscience, but I think it is terribly important that we operate as a representative body, as the U.S. Senate, as a part of representative democracy of the United States of America. We can't on this question, we can't on these questions, if we go into closed session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, regarding the President's speech last night, I will start out with his style. I thought it was rather amazing that, given all that has happened--like our trial here--that the President came before the Congress and delivered a very good speech. He certainly had confidence and he outlined some important proposals. 
   I think his proposal dealing with Social Security was extremely important. I think it is a solid proposal. And it does not go in the direction of some of the privatization schemes which I think would have taken the ``security'' out of Social Security. But it also recognizes we need to make some changes and we need to make sure that we support or save the Social Security system. But we keep it as a social insurance program. It is a contract. It is for all the people in the country. 
   The emphasis on the COPS Program, community policing, is right on the mark. The law enforcement community in Minnesota has done some great work with this community policing program, including dealing with all of the issues having to do with domestic violence. Every 13 seconds a woman is battered in the United States of America in her home--a home should be a safe place--and many children see this, as well. God knows what the effect is on the children. 
   Mr. President, I also want to just be very honest about my disappointment in this speech. Here we are, going into the next century, the next millennium. Here we have this great economy, booming along. We hear about it all the time. This is our opportunity now to take bold initiatives, to put forth bold proposals that really respond to children in America. 
   The President talked about low-income, elderly citizens, many of them women. I think it is terribly important to address that reality. Mr. President, what about the reality of close to 1 out of 4 children under the age of 3 growing up poor in our country? What about the reality of 1 out of every 2 children of color under the age of 3 growing up poor in our country? 
   We have heard from the experts. We have had the conferences. We have seen the studies. We know about the involvement of the brain. We know we have to get it right for these children by age 3 or many of them will never be able to do well in school and never be able to do well in life. 
   I see a real disconnect between some of the words uttered by our President and his proposals that don't meet the challenge. The commitment of resources to affordable child care for so many families in our country doesn't even come close to meeting the need. I thought we were going to make a commitment to affordable child care for everyone, not just for welfare mothers and their 
   children. Not that we've done enough for those on welfare. That, in and of itself, is important, and we are not doing nearly as well as we should. But we need to help not just low income, but working income, moderate income, even middle-income families, for whom good child care is a huge expense, so that their children can get the best of nurturing and intellectual stimulation. But this is not in this budget. It is not in this budget. There's money, but the President's solutions are not in the same scope as the problems themselves. 
   The President has a proposal that focuses on afterschool care. I am all for that. But when I think about the poverty of children in our country, when I think about a set of social arrangements that allow children to be the most poverty-stricken group in our country, when I think about what a national disgrace that is, and when I think about all we should be doing to make sure that every child in our country has the same opportunity to reach his and her full potential, and when I think about what we are going to be asking our children to carry on their shoulders in the next century, I don't see in the President's State of the Union Address a bold agenda that would lead to the dramatic improvement of the lives of so many children in our country. Why the timidity? With this economy booming along, in the words of Rabbi Hillel, ``If not now, when?'' If we are not going to speak for our children now, when will we? If we are not going to move forward with bold proposals, start with affordable child care, when will we? 
   Finally, Mr. President, on the health care front, some important proposals: 
   Give credit where credit should be given. I meet with people in the disabilities community and this is a huge problem. You want to work and then when you get a job you lose your medical assistance and you are worse off. To be able to carry health care coverage for people in the disabilities community so more people can work--yes. 
   A tax credit proposal that says if you have a problem of catastrophic expenses--I know what this is about; I had two parents with Parkinson's disease--as a family, you can get up to a $1,000 tax credit per year. But this credit is not refundable. Why in the world do we have a tax credit that is not refundable, in which case families with incomes under $30,000 a year get no help whatever? Are we worried about providing assistance to low-income people, poor people, as if they have it made in America? 
   Second of all, catastrophic expenses go way beyond $1,000 a year. 
   And here is what I don't understand about the President's downsized agenda. Whatever happened to universal health care coverage? Now we have 44 million people with no health insurance, more than when we started the debate several years ago. Now we have another 44 million people who are underinsured. We have people falling between the cracks. They are not old enough for Medicare, prescription drug costs are not covered, they can't afford catastrophic expenses, they are not poor enough for medical assistance, they are getting dropped for coverage by their employers, and copay and deductibles are going up and are way too high a percentage of family income. 
   Several years ago, the health insurance industry took universal health care coverage off the table. We ought to put it back on the table. I don't understand the timidity of the President's State of the Union Address when it comes to making sure that we can provide good health care coverage for all of our citizens. Our economy is booming, we are going into the next century, this is the time for bold initiatives. This is not the time for timidity. This is a time to make a connection between the words we speak and the problems we identify and the challenges we say we have as a Nation and the investment. 
   Where is the investment in the health, skills, intellect and character of our children in America? Where is the investment to make sure that every citizen has health coverage that he and she can afford for themselves and their families? I didn't see it in the  President's State of the Union Address. For that reason, I am disappointed. I believe our country can do better. I believe our country can do better. I believe the U.S. Congress can do better, and I hope that we will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, today, I am submitting legislation to urge the President to sponsor a resolution condemning China's human rights record at the next session of the U.N. Commission on Human Rights this March and to begin immediately contacting other governments to urge them to cosponsor such a resolution. 
   When President Clinton formally delinked trade and human rights in 1994, he pledged, on the record, that the U.S. would ``step up its efforts, in cooperation with other states, to insist that the United Nations Human Rights Commission pass a resolution dealing with the serious human rights abuses in China.'' While the U.S. has claimed an intention at least to speak out on human rights, the substance of U.S.-China relations--trade, military contacts, high level summits--go forward while Chinese leaders continue to crackdown on every last dissident in a country of over one billion people. 
   The Chinese government continues to commit widespread abuses, and since  the President's visit in June, has taken actions that flagrantly violate the commitments it has made to respect internationally recognized human rights. Recently, it sentenced three of China's most prominent pro-democracy advocates, Xu Wenli, Wang Youcai, and Chin Yougmin, to a combined prison term of thirty-five years. These disgraceful arrests were part of a crackdown by the government on efforts to form the country's first opposition political party. Further, a businessman in Shanghai, Lin Hai, is now being tried for providing E-mail addresses to a prodemocracy internet magazine in the United States. Another democracy activist, Zhang Shanguang, was convicted and sentenced to ten years in prison for giving Radio Free Asia information about protests by farmers in Hunan province. These events are occurring against a backdrop of growing repression, such as the adoption of strict new regulations on the formation of non-governmental political and social organizations, and the imposition of tough new regulations on film directors, computer software developers, artists and the press if they ``endanger social order'' or attempt to ``overthrow state power''. 
   The arrested dissidents and their courageous supporters deserve our full backing, and the Administration's, in their historic struggle to bring democracy to China. At the June summit in Beijing, President Clinton engaged in a spirited debate on human rights with President Jiang Zemin. In light of this brutal, recent crackdown, I urge the Administration to bring a resolution at Geneva in March and to register its continuing deep concern on two issues President Clinton raised with President Jiang at the summit--the absence of freedom of expression and association, and the use of arbitrary detention in China. Past experience has demonstrated that, when the United States has applied sustained pressure, the Chinese authorities have responded in ways that signal their willingness to engage on the issue of human rights. This pressure needs to be exercised now. By sponsoring a resolution at the U.N. Human Rights Commission, the United States will demonstrate its commitment to securing China's adherence to international human rights standards.. 
   On October 5, 1998, China signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, but it has yet to take the necessary steps to make it legally binding. The Administration agreed early in 1998 not to sponsor a resolution criticizing China at the U.N. Human Rights Commission in consideration of Chinese commitments on human rights, including the signing of this important covenant. Yet, the recent acts of intimidation and detention underscore that the Chinese government has not retreated from its longstanding pattern of serious human rights abuses. 
   It is time for the United States to provide the leadership which the people of China depend on. We must take action to submit a resolution on China in Geneva and build international support for its passage. The U.N. Human Rights Commission is the only international body which oversees the human rights conditions of all states. Even though the resolution may not pass, simply the debate of human rights in China and Tibet at the Commission will make an important difference. 
   I have had the great honor of knowing and becoming friends with Wei Jingsheng this past year. Mr. Wei is a Chinese dissident who has spent most of his life in Chinese prisons for his pro-democratic political writings. In an article published shortly after his release, Mr. Wei stated, ``Democracy and freedom are among the loftiest ideals of humanity, and they are the most sacred rights of mankind. Those who already enjoy democracy, liberty and human rights, in particular, should not allow their own personal happiness to numb them into forgetting that many others who are still struggling against tyranny, slavery, and poverty, and all of those who are suffering from unimaginable forms of oppression, exploitation and massacres.'' 
   Mr. President, the United States must not take its freedom for granted. As Americans, we must take action and sponsor and lead the international effort to condemn the human rights situation in China and Tibet. I hope that my colleagues will join me in passing this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-wellstone-mn-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I rise to speak today to honor a great Minnesota Senator and a great American. 
   U.S. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey died on January 13, 1978. On that day, a piece of Minnesota died--a piece of the nation died. 
   In many ways, Senator Humphrey embodied the best of our state and our nation. He was a visionary who never lost sight of people in the here and now; he was a prophet who spoke with authority and compassion; he was a leader who never lost sight of the ``..... extraordinary possibilities in ordinary people.'' Whether as the Mayor of Minneapolis or the Vice President of the United States, Senator Humphrey was a person of dignity, integrity and honesty. Even during our darkest days of segregation and war, he never lost his humor or his commitment to improve the lives of people. And this Happy Warrior did improve the lives of countless people throughout my state and our country. Indeed, he fulfilled his own pledge that ``we must dedicate ourselves to making each man, each woman, each child in America a full participant in American life.'' 
   My state and our nation owe a debt to Senator Humphrey that can never be paid. 
   I owe a debt to Senator Humphrey: In the back of my mind, I continually aspire to the standard he set for Minnesota Senators. I attempt to fulfill his goal that our ``public and private endeavor ought to be concentrated upon those who are in the dawn of life, our children; those who are in the twilight of life, our elderly; and those who are in the shadows of life, our handicapped.'' 
   My thoughts on Senator Humphrey's passing are even more poignant this year because his wife--Senator Muriel Humphrey--died this past fall. As friends and family gathered at her funeral, I was struck by how blessed we were to have these two incredible people pass through our lives. 
   I close very simply in honor of the memory of this very great public man: We all are better off because of his life.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

