<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator HATCH for his leadership on this bankruptcy bill and for shepherding it through the Judiciary Committee. 
   I remember distinctly when we first began to discuss the problems of children, alimony and child support, the leadership and the firm position Senator HATCH took to guarantee that children and alimony payments would have an enhanced position in bankruptcy, much higher than it had ever been before. That was the goal of Senator HATCH, who has worked on this bill and previous bankruptcy bills and studied this. 
   I am looking at a letter from some professors who don't seem to get it. But the Senator has studied and sponsored the amendment that made some of the historic changes. 
   Is there any doubt in your mind, Senator, that the children will benefit from those child support payments, and women will have more protections for alimony payments under this bill that we are about to pass than if the bill does not pass? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we have had quoted on the floor a letter from a group of professors that expressed opposition to this bankruptcy bill. I think we owe it to those who quoted from it to treat the letter seriously and analyze item by item the complaints they have made and discuss it on the floor. I must say that after examining the letter carefully, I must take issue with the professors' conclusions. 
   I intend to try to go over the points that they raise fairly and honestly, and to state the situation as I see it. In fact, I think it is quite plain. The professors are wrong and they are making misleading statements about it. 
   For example, the letter from the professors says:  
   Women and children will have to compete with powerful creditors to collect their claims after bankruptcy.  
   The fact is, the bill makes currently exempt assets--that is, homestead, household effects, tools of the trade--those kinds of things that normally today cannot be made to be sold to pay alimony or child support--non-exempt. Thus, wives and mothers will not have to compete with anyone before, during, or after bankruptcy for these key assets. In fact, a mother, for child support, can take the home--the homestead notwithstanding--of a deadbeat dad and take other assets that he has that otherwise under current law would be exempt. It is a major step forward for the rights of children. 
   The letter from the professors further says:  
   Credit card claims increasingly will be excepted from discharge and remain a legal obligation after bankruptcy.  
   The fact is, the bill makes only credit card debt incurred by fraud nondischargeable, just like taxes and child support are nondischargeable. Debtors who defraud creditors should not be able to discharge their debts in bankruptcy and not pay them. They only ought to be able to discharge the debts they lawfully incurred. That is the current law. That is the law today. You cannot discharge fraudulent debts. In addition, of course, credit card debt is at the end of the line if you have to pay anything. It is a non-secured debt. It is the last priority to be paid in the list of priorities. 
   This letter goes on to say:  
   Large retailers will have an easier time obtaining reaffirmations of debt that legally could be discharged.  
   That is absolutely false. I was charged by Senator GRASSLEY to meet with Senator REID and the representatives from the White House to develop reaffirmation language that would strengthen protections for people who were asked to reaffirm debts. 
   Frankly, reaffirmations are not all that bad. Many times, people have every reason to want to reaffirm their debts and keep their washing machine, their TV, their furniture, their automobile they use to get to and from work. They want to keep it. They reaffirm their debt and they do not lose it. So we worked out language to which the White House agreed. It strengthens the protections provided to those debtors. It was language agreed-upon in a bipartisan way. 
   The letter further says:  
   Giving first priority to domestic support obligations--  
   Which is in the bill, giving them first priority of payment--  
   does not address the problem, and that 95 percent of bankruptcy cases make no distributions to any creditors because there are no assets to distribute.  
   First, the money is going to the bankruptcy court and to lawyers. In our rule, children would be above the courts and the lawyers. ``Granting women and children a first priority permits them to stand first in line to collect nothing,'' the professors say. But the fact is, the means test will place above-median-income-deadbeat-dads into Chapter 13 if they can repay some of their debt--median income for a family of four, by the way, is about $45,000. So, to reiterate, deadbeat dads who are above median income, will be forced into chapter 13 (instead of being able to file Chapter 7) if they can afford to pay back some of the debts they owe--maybe it is 20 percent, maybe it is 30 percent--but they will be put into chapter 13 to pay that. And for 5 years the judge can order them to pay on those debts what percentage he or she believes the debtor is financially able to pay 
   and maintain a decent standard of living.  
   But what is first? What is first paid by that deadbeat dad? His alimony and child support. He would be under court-monitored supervision and direction to pay the first fruits of his income directly in the form of child support and alimony. In effect, you have a bankruptcy judge helping ensure, for 5 years, the full payment of child support and alimony. I believe that is going to be a historic step forward. In fact, this will place children and women in a higher level than they have ever been before. 
   The letter further says:  
   Under current law, child support and alimony share a protected post-bankruptcy position with only two other recurrent collectors of debt--taxes and student loans. The bill would allow credit card debt and other consumer credit to share that position, thus elbowing aside women trying to collect on their own behalf.  
   That is not true. I can understand why some of our Senators are concerned about the bill after they read this letter. It has a bunch of professors' names on it. They think it is true--but it is not true. The fact is, the bill allows only consumer debt that was incurred by fraud to be nondischargeable, which is fundamentally the law today. Even so, only alimony and child support claimants will be able to levee on any of these assets. No one else can levee or get ahead of a parent or a child to claim these exempt assets. Thus, mothers will not have to compete with the IRS, the student loan companies, credit card companies, or anyone else, to attach exempt assets after bankruptcy. 
   Further, I believe the bill will provide more assets for distribution to women and children than before, during, and after bankruptcy. Before bankruptcy, debtors will receive credit counseling information which will help keep fathers on a budget, teach them how to maintain a budget, and out of bankruptcy and paying their alimony and child support in the first place. During bankruptcy, deadbeat dads will be required to pay all past due alimony and child support and to undergo court supervision for up to 5 years under chapter 13, as they pay their No. 1 priority, child support claims. 
   After bankruptcy it is much more likely that a father who has undergone credit counseling, who has been subjected to 5 years of court supervision of his finances, and where alimony and child support were the first things he was required to pay and where he knows that he cannot shield his exempt assets from alimony and child support, will be up to date on all his payments if he has gone through that process--much more so than today. 
   I see Chairman GRASSLEY is here. I had a number of matters, but I know he would like to wrap up at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the chairman. 
   Mr. President, what is the time situation? Are we still set for a vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have at least six or seven more items that I could refer to from the professors' letter that I believe are based on complaints about an early version of the bill, matters that are not even in the bill today, and other items that are completely distorted in how it affects the poor people in America today. 
   Let me simply say this: We need bankruptcy reform. We have shown a doubling of bankruptcy filings in the last decade. 
   It is time for us to move this bill forward to create a body of law that is less subject to abuse than current law, to close many of the loopholes or at least partially close them. 
   The fact we have not been able to do everything is not a basis to object, in my view. The perfect is the enemy of the good. This is a good bill. I would like to see all the homestead exemptions removed, at least as we agreed earlier. Senator GRASSLEY supported that. The House would not agree. We got half the problems of homestead eliminated in this bill. 
   If we do not pass the bill, we will have the current law which has a host of problems and none of them fixed. 
   That is where we are. We have a good piece of legislation. Chairman GRASSLEY has done a magnificent job of listening to everybody and working out an agreement that is acceptable. Chairman HATCH has likewise been tough in trying to complete this bill. I believe we have a good piece of legislation, and I hope the vote will be overwhelming again today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001207</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote, and I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I express my appreciation and admiration to Senator GRASSLEY for his extraordinary patience, steadfast leadership, and efforts in moving this bill forward over a period of years. 
   Some say this has slipped through. We have had hearings for years. We have had debates on this floor for the last 2 to 3 years. It has passed every time overwhelmingly. But a small group is trying to identify certain little things when they put a spin on it to make it sound as if doing something about a bankruptcy system that is out of control is bad and is not a fair thing. 
   What we are saying fundamentally is, if you make above median income--for a family of four, I believe the median income is $45,000--and a judge finds you can pay some of your debts back, you ought to be able to pay that. 
   We have examples all over this country. If you talk to any of your bankers and hospitals in your community, you find people with high incomes are just walking away, wiping out all their debts and not paying them. They think it is cool and clever. But it is wrong. 
   When a person receives a value, receives a loan, he or she ought to pay it back if they can. America is very generous. If you cannot pay it back and you are in debt, you can file bankruptcy, wipe out all those debts, and start over free and clear. 
   What this legislation says is, most historically, the small number--and it is far less than 50 percent--who make higher incomes, if they can pay more, ought to. That is only fair and just. 
   Bankruptcy is a Federal court legal system. Bankruptcy judges are Federal judges. The whole bankruptcy code with which many lawyers have worked--and I have a bit over the years but never mastered; and as U.S. attorney, I had a couple of lawyers on my staff who worked bankruptcy regularly and we dealt with bankruptcy issues--this complex code states who gets what in bankruptcy and how much should be paid. 
   We found we have had a doubling in filings in bankruptcy in the last 10 years, during a time when the economy is doing exceedingly well. We have also found that lawyers--and I don't really blame lawyers; I am a lawyer; I practiced law; if the bankruptcy code gives me a clause somewhere that I can use to the advantage of my client to make them not pay a debt that the client probably should pay--I am going to take advantage of it. It is malpractice not to take advantage of that. 
   Whose responsibility is it if we create a bankruptcy code that has loopholes in it? It is our responsibility. If after over 20 years of this current bankruptcy bill, after over 20 plus years of experience, we see where the problem areas are, where the abuses are, it is our obligation, I think, to do something about it and fix it so that it operates fairly and so that people are treated as they should be treated. 
   What we are saying and what bankruptcy does is say that a person who incurred a debt, a person who received a benefit, doesn't have to pay for it. If you received a loan, they give you $10,000 and you go bankrupt, you don't pay your loan back. Sure, it hurts your brother-in-law who loaned it to you, your banker who loaned it to you, and it has financial repercussions. The bank has to charge higher interest rates when they have more defaults. Consumers pay for that, too. 
   It hurts that family who sits down on a weekly basis adding up their income around the kitchen table, figuring how to pay their debts. Some people don't; they go off gambling or they do other things. Or they have, in fact, a serious financial problem they 
   can't deal with--a huge medical bill. Some families try to figure out a way to work through that; they should. Some can't, and they file bankruptcy. 
   All we are saying is, that that small percentage who is making above median income, who a judge believes can pay some of it, ought to pay it. Maybe it is 25 percent of the debts they owe, but they ought to pay that if they can. 
   It also does a number of things that Senator HATCH and Senator GRASSLEY have mentioned to raise the level of protection and benefits for children and divorced women through alimony. Alimony and child support become No. 1 protected items in this bill. 
   There have been some letters that Senator KENNEDY and others read that nobody supports this bill. He stated on the floor not one single organization that advocates for children supports this bill. These are his words: Not one single organization that advocates for women supports this legislation, there is not one single organization that represents working men and women that supports the bill, and that there is not  one single organization that represents the interests of consumers that supports the bill. 
   Well, that is not exactly correct. Interestingly, just yesterday I received four letters from organizations that represent the interests of all the groups referred to by Senator KENNEDY who do support this bill. Those four organizations writing letters in support of this bill include the National Child Support Enforcement Association. 
   I was attorney general for 2 years in Alabama, and we worked all kinds of ways to utilize the power of the State's attorneys to help increase child support collections. That is one of the main groups in America that does this--the National Child Support Association, the Western Interstate Child Support Enforcement Council, the California Family Support Council, and Attorney General Betty Montgomery of Ohio. 
   I will now tell you a little bit about the contents of the letters. The National Child Support Enforcement Association is committed to ensuring parents fulfill their responsibility to provide emotional and financial support for their children, including honoring legally-owed child support obligations. According to the organization, this bill will ``significantly advance their goal.'' 
   I do not see how any person can stand on the floor of this Senate and not say this bill will enhance the ability of children to receive child support payments. In fact, it enhances it in a multiplicity of ways. It even puts the payments of child support above payments to the lawyers in the case, which may be one of the reasons we are having some objection to this bill. 
   The Western Interstate Child Support Enforcement Council's primary purpose is to ensure that child support workers have effective enforcement tools to carry out their mandated responsibility to establish and collect child support, feels that passage of this bill will ``greatly enhance [their] efforts in this regard by establishing an equitable system of debt repayment and discharge in bankruptcy proceedings.'' 
   This is a strong and clear statement from this organization that cares about children, is dedicated to them, and is working on a regular basis. 
   According to Howard Baldwin, the president of WICSEC, the provisions of this bill:  
   will re-prioritize the elements in bankruptcy plans by establishing child support as the debtor's primary obligation, with all other debts assuming a secondary role. 
   As a result, our Nation's child support agencies will be able to pursue collection efforts without encountering the restrictions caused by existing bankruptcy proceedings.  
   This is another strong statement that they will be able to pursue collection efforts without encountering restrictions under the current bankruptcy laws. 
   The California Family Support Council also supports this bill. 
   At its Annual Training Conference held in February, 2000, the organization noted that:  
   based on [its] experience . . . bankruptcy remains an impediment to [their] ability to collect support and [that is serves as] a haven for those who want to avoid their familial obligations.  
   As a result, the California Family Support Council's membership:  
   feels strongly that this legislation will strenghten substantially the child support enforcement program and improve the collection of child support.  
   So if we don't pass this bill we are going to be continuing under a rule of bankruptcy law far less favorable to children than the ones in existence today. 
   Ohio Attorney General Betty D. Montgomery has strongly endorsed this bill. In her letter to Senators DEWINE and VOINOVICH, and Congressman STEVE CHABOT, General Montgomery recounted the improvements this bill makes over current law. 
   General Montgomery rightly notes that:  
   current law places domestic support obligations 7th on this list of priorities. By providing that repayment of domestic support obligations move to the head of the list of priorities for debtors to pay in Section 212 of this bill, Congress will ensure that the spouse and the children will continue to collect support payments that are owed during the bankruptcy case. Under the bill, debtors who owe child support would have to keep paying after they file for bankruptcy and creditors could not seize previous payments, which is commendable.  
   What that means is this. Under current bankruptcy law, let's say there is a deadbeat dad who files bankruptcy and he still owes a lot of child support money. It is not dischargeable. He wipes out all his debts but his child support is not wiped out, he still owes that. If he moves off to another State, maybe halfway across the country, and they can't find him, it's hard to make him pay. Under this legislation, if he were certified as somebody with an income sufficient to be put into Chapter 13 and not just wipe out all his debts but had to pay some of those debts back, the first debts he must pay under bankruptcy court specific supervision would be this child support. If it is up to a period of 5 years, which it normally would be, he would be under court order. The mother/wife wouldn't need to hire a lawyer to chase the deadbeat dad all around the country, the bankruptcy judge would be there making sure he paid it. The first moneys that came in would have to go to that child support. 
   This is a historic step for children and families, and I believe we ought to recognize that. I am glad Attorney General Montgomery, the able Attorney General of Ohio who I was honored to know when I was Attorney General of Alabama, recognizes that and has stated it so clearly. 
   Finally, Phillip L. Strauss, assistant district attorney for the city and county of San Francisco, in a September 14, 1999, letter to members of the Judiciary Committee made known his unqualified support for this bill. 
   His 27 years in the DA's Office, Family Support Bureau, and his 10 years' experience as a bankruptcy law professor, convince him that this bill is a real improvement over the current bankruptcy law. 
   In his letter, responding to a July 14, 1999 letter from the National Women's Law Center, Strauss makes the point that none of the organizations opposing this bill in the NWLC letter have actually ever been engaged in the collection of support; Conversely, the largest professional organizations which do perform this function have endorsed the child support provisions of the Bankruptcy Reform Act as ``crucially needed modifications of the Bankruptcy Code which will significantly improve the collection of support during bankruptcy.'' 
   Notes Professor Strauss:  
    Most of the concerns raised by the groups opposing [this] bill do not, in fact, center on the language of the domestic support provisions themselves. Instead they are based on vague generalized statements that the bill hurts debtors, or the women and children living with debtors, or the ex-wives and children who depend on the debtor for support. It is difficult to respond point by point to such claims when they provide no specifics.  
   The crux of the main argument against this bill is:  
   by not discharging certain debts owned to credit and finance companies, the institutions would be in competition with women and children for scarce resources of the debtor and that the bill fails ``to insure that support payments will come first.''  
   According to Strauss, 
   ``nothing could be further from the truth.'' 
   Indeed, under this bill, there are many protections for women and children over powerful credit and finance companies that exist outside of bankruptcy. Moreover, support claims are given the highest priority under this bill, while commercial debts do not have any statutory priority. Thus when there is competition between commercial and support creditors, support creditors will be paid first. And, unlike commercial creditors, support creditors must be paid in full when the debtor files a case under chapter 12 or 13. 
   In addition, support creditors will benefit--again, unlike commercial creditors--from Chapter 12 and 13 plans which must provide for full payment of on-going support and unassigned support arrears. Further benefits to support creditors which are not available to commercial creditors is the security in knowing that Chapter 12 and 13 debtors will not be able to discharge other debts unless all post-petition support and pre-petition unassigned arrears have been paid in full. 
   In other words, you cannot get discharged from your bankruptcy until you have paid your child support. 
   In conclusion, this bill is a much-welcomed improvement over current law--as noted by these five letters, written on behalf of organizations that deal  with these issues every day, in support of it. 
   The opponents should not oppose this bill just to oppose it--that is disingenuous. Mere opposition to any change in the present law, and vague claims that any and all attempts to address such existing abuses as serial filings are oppressive and will harm women and children, and does nothing to advance the proper understanding of the problems we are faced with, in my view. 
   I would just say, those things make it clear from professionals in the field that the legislation is not harsh toward children but, in fact, provides greater protections than they have ever had before, a fact which I assert is indisputable. Somehow, though, there is a feeling here that you just ought to have an untrammeled right, an unlimited right to not pay anybody you don't want to pay; that somehow there is no cost to society when people don't pay their debts. 
   There is a cost to society. There is a cost to you, to me, to everyone in this Chamber, and to everyone in this country because when more people do not pay their debts, the interest rate you pay for your loan has to go up because a part of the reason for an interest rate is the uncollectibility rate, and if a bank makes 100 loans and they collect 99 out of 100, they only have to factor in that percentage of that amount to pay for that one bad loan they write. 
   If only 95 out of 100 are being paid, or 90 out of 100, we will feel it in the interest rates. Who will be paying the higher interest rates? The ones who will be paying the higher interest rates are the people who manage their money, do the right thing, serve their country, train their children, and pay their debts, and we do not want them to feel like they are chumps, that they somehow are not smart. And a really smart person is the one who knows how to run up a bunch of debt and declare bankruptcy. 
   There is a problem into which this country is sliding. The real reason for the increase in bankruptcy filings in America is television advertisement. Turn on your TV. Do you have debt problems? Call old Joe the lawyer. It is 11 or 12 o'clock at night, people cannot sleep, they are worried about their debt. There it is. That is the answer. They go down, and the lawyer says: Give me $1,000. 
   Well, I don't have $1,000. 
   How much do you make? 
   My check is $500. 
   Save up two of those checks and bring them to me. Don't pay any other debt. Don't pay a dime on your credit card. Bring all that money to me. As soon as you bring it to me, I will file bankruptcy. I will wipe out all these debts. You can forget this. 
   That is what is happening. Do not think I am exaggerating. That is what is happening in America today. If their debts are high, they cannot pay their way out of it, it is hopeless for them and they have a low income, they ought to be able to start over again. Anybody who loans money to people who have low incomes and excessive debt--they have to be careful about loaning money. They know they are going to lose sometimes. Understand that. 
   I am not saying we will change that. In fact, I suspect that as high as 90 percent of the people who filed bankruptcy under straight bankruptcy, chapter 7, before this new bill was passed, would be able to do it afterwards. This bill will catch a lot of people who are abusing the system, and it will be a signal that Congress does care and does believe that if you can pay some of your debts, you should pay them. 
   We are going to insist you do, and we are not going to have a court system that allows wealthy people to just walk away from debts they honorably signed up to pay and dishonorably declined to make good on. We can do better. 
   There are a number of things I will say about this bill perhaps tomorrow. I do believe Senator GRASSLEY has done a superb job. It has been a matter of great debate. It came out of the Judiciary Committee by a vote of 16-2 on one occasion, maybe with only three dissenting votes on another occasion. It has passed this Senate with 80 or 90 votes more than once. Somehow always it comes up at the end of a session. It is dragged out. A small group fights it, and at the end they say: We are really for bankruptcy reform, but we are just not for this bill. We know there are abuses, but this bill is not fair. Or, the bill I voted on last time was changed in conference, so it is now bad; I am not voting for it now. 
   I do not think that is legitimate. If they study what is in here, they will see this is a fair bill, that it does close somewhat the homestead loophole about which some Senators have complained. Senator KOHL and I led the fight to eliminate the homestead loophole entirely. I thought it was an abuse, but we just did not have the votes to do entirely eliminate it, so resolved to make significant progress toward tightening it--and we have. 
   Not passing this bill is going to leave us with a total lack of control over the homestead issue. Passing this bill will eliminate fraud totally in the most extreme cases and tighten up the process. It will be a significant step forward, in my view, to controlling that abuse. That is what compromise is about. 
   Chairman GRASSLEY has done a great job working this bill to this point. I believe it is a piece of legislation that should pass, and I remain hopeful the President will sign it. If not, I am hopeful this Senate will be able to override that veto. Yesterday, we had a vote well into the sixties to invoke cloture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair and yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Finance Committee be discharged from further consideration of S. 13, the Class Act. I further ask consent that the Senate proceed to its consideration, and an amendment at the desk submitted by Senator SESSIONS be agreed to, the bill be read the third time and passed, and that the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. Further, I ask that the bill remain at the desk, and that when the Senate receives from the House H.R. 254, the Senate proceed to its consideration, all after the enacting clause be stricken and the text of S. 13, as amended, be inserted in lieu thereof. I further ask that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and all previous action on S. 13 be vitiated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator GRAHAM of Florida and I have been working on this bill. This legislation, in sum, provides that families that are saving for college tuition under prepaid college tuition plans, which are growing in popularity in America, the money they save and the interest that accrues on those plans not be taxable by the Federal Government. That is what this law would do if passed. 
   What we are doing in America today is we have a public policy to encourage families, through loan subsidies and other forms of incentives and delays in payments of interest, to borrow money to pay for college. But people who are saving money, even under State prepaid college tuition plans, are taxed on the money they save. This is a disincentive for the best way to pay for college tuition; that is, saving for college. Well over 40 States have these prepaid plans and the few States that don't are moving to develop them. It is working very well. The Federal tax policy ought to affirm what these States are doing and make this tax-free. 
   I just note that this is a middle class program. For example, 71 percent of the participating families in the Florida prepaid college program have annual incomes under $50,000, and 25 percent have incomes of less than $30,000; 81 percent of the contracts in Wyoming's savings plan have been purchased by families with annual incomes of less than $34,000; 62 percent of the contracts in Pennsylvania have been purchased by families with annual incomes of less than $35,000. The average monthly contribution to a family's college savings account in 1995 in Kentucky was $43. 
   So what we are saying is let's have a good public policy. Let's encourage  people to save and make sure it is a wise thing for them to do financially. If we can achieve that, I think it would be good. As far as I understand, there is only one person in this who has an objection. I would be delighted to know who that was. Senator GRAHAM and I would like to talk to them to see if the problem they have can be worked out. I think it is good public policy. Both Vice President GORE and Governor Bush have made statements that clearly indicate their support for this kind of public policy. I am working with Senator DASCHLE, the Democratic leader, and I thank him for his assistance on this legislation, dealing with an issue he thought important to his State. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator GRASSLEY for his tremendous leadership on this bill. As he has said so plainly and effectively, that anyone who is concerned about consumer problems, debtors, fraud and abuse, and who does not believe this bill is an improvement over current law, has not read the bill. 
   I am going to talk about some of those things. This bill makes progress in virtually every area over current law. Senator GRASSLEY has patiently, for over 3 years, gone through hearings in the Judiciary Committee, on which I have been honored to serve, in his subcommittee, on the floor of this Senate, in conferences, committees, and meetings trying to eliminate every possible objection anyone could have to this bill. 
   When we get to this point after having tremendous votes--over 90 votes, one time 97-1 we passed this legislation--and we still have not made it law because a few dedicated people are threatening to hold it up and the President has indicated he may veto this bill that makes real progress in protecting consumers and fair and just legal dispute resolution. 
   Bankruptcy law is operative in Federal court. It is presided over by a Federal bankruptcy judge, not an Article III judge that presides over Federal district court, but a Federal judge nevertheless. All the laws used in this court, unless the Federal law says otherwise, are federal. 
   There was a Bankruptcy Reform Act passed by Congress in 1978. We have had no significant reforms since then. During the time since 1980, just 2 short years after the passage of that act, there were 330,000 bankruptcy filings. In 1998, there were 1.4 million bankruptcy filings--a 423-percent increase during a time of unprecedented economic growth and prosperity. 
   What is happening? Certainly it is time for us, as good stewards of American legal policy, to take a minute to find out what is happening in bankruptcy court, to see what the abuses are and what loopholes clever lawyers are now using--to see if we can't improve it and make it fairer and better for all concerned. We absolutely can do that. That is why this legislation, essentially as it is today, has repeatedly passed the House and the Senate with overwhelming majorities. It passed the Judiciary Committee 15-3 and 16-2. That is why it ought to pass today. 
   It is absolutely stunning to me that we are at a point where this bill may not pass because of the misinformation and politics that is happening here. There are now 3,474 bankruptcy filings per day. This chart shows the increase  in filings subsequent to the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. It shows a tremendous increase. We are not making up these numbers. There are a lot of reasons for it. 
   Actually, what has happened is that a cottage industry has sprung up. Turn on your TV, turn on your cable channels, look in your newspapers. You will see the ads: ``Lawyers: Wipe out your debts. Got problems paying your debts? Call old Joe the attorney, he will take care of you. He will save you rent. You can get out of paying rent.'' All of a sudden people are doing that. 
   In fact, here is an ad in one paper--and I am going to talk about it a little later--``7 months free rent,'' just call your old buddy the bankruptcy lawyer. ``We guarantee you can stay in your apartment or house 2 to 7 months more''--that means more than you would get under eviction rules of the State which protect tenants from being evicted unfairly--``more without paying a penny. Find out how. We can stop the sheriff or the marshal.'' Call old John your bankruptcy lawyer. This bill ends a host of abuses. It will greatly benefit women and children in their child support and alimony, and those facts cannot be denied. 
   Let me talk about some of the complaints we have heard first. They say this is a procedural unfairness; that this is a bizarre 
   way we have done this, unprecedented, and unfair. We have had this bill up and about for 3 years. It has been debated in so many different ways. It is now part of the embassy security bill which is not at all unusual for one piece of legislation to be made a part of another piece of legislation as it passes through the Senate. 
   The Senate rules allow for that to happen and for it to come forward as a conference bill if the House has voted on it. The House has voted on it and voted in favor of this bill. The House acted on October 12. It is perfectly proper for it to be in the form it is. 
   There have been statements made that we have not had a chance to amend or that we have not had full discussion. There has been constant discussion. There has been agreement time and again to amend it. Senator KOHL, a member of the Democratic Party who worked hard on this bill, and I battled to improve the homestead law. We did not get all we wanted, but we made substantial progress. The homestead law in this legislation is significantly more fair than the unlimited homestead in current law, and if we do not pass the bill, current law will remain in effect, and the homestead abuses will continue unchecked; whereas, this bill eliminates the most serious homestead law abuses. 
   That cannot be denied. I do not understand. We are almost in 1984 land. Is it perfect? Is it the enemy of the good? Yes, I would have liked to have made more progress. I debated it on this floor. I argued for reform. A number of States have laws that would be overridden by changes I would like to see, and they fought tenaciously to hold on to their own laws. We had to make some compromises to move this bill forward, though, and I think we have made substantial progress. If anybody is concerned about the homestead law, why in the world would they vote to keep an old bill and not pass this new bill which improves the homestead provisions. Senator BIDEN, a member of the Judiciary Committee who was intimately involved in this bankruptcy law, was the ranking member of this conference committee. He voted to bring the bill out to this floor in the form we are in today. 
   Senator KENNEDY raised an odd objection. He claims he is worried about poor people, but he wanted to put in language that would allow pensioners who had millions of dollars in their pension accounts--no matter how much they had in there--to keep that money and to not have to pay the guy who put the roof on their house when they filed for bankruptcy. They could file for bankruptcy and keep everything in their pension account, even if it was millions of dollars. 
   Senator GRASSLEY and I thought that was an unfair advantage to the rich. We wanted to cap the amount of money that could be kept in a pension account. If you had a reasonable amount, $1 million, $750,000, whatever the amount would be, we tried to contain it at a reasonable amount. Why should a person keep $2 million in a pension account and not pay his doctor, not pay the local hospital, not pay the man who fixed his roof, not pay the guy who repaired his car or his brother-in-law who loaned him money? Why should that happen? That is not fair, but that is what Senator KENNEDY wanted. He pushed for it and, as a compromise--in fact, it does not happen that often--we agreed to concede to that. 
   To say that we were not making changes at the last minute is really strange. 
   Senator SCHUMER is going to vote against the bill if it does not have his abortion clinic language in it; when, in fact, it does not have abortion clinic language in it now. And he is not going to get it in there because it is an unfair targeting of one group of wrongdoers. He will not agree to have broad-based language, as I would support, and others will. So everybody is losing. The perfect becomes the enemy of the good. 
   Let me mention this. In the 105th Congress, 2 years ago, the House passed this bill 306-118. It passed the Senate September 23, 1998, 97-1. In the 106th Congress, in May, the House voted 313-108 to pass this bill--an even higher vote. In the Senate, we voted in February of this year, 83-14, to pass this bill. 
   It has broad bipartisan support. It is a tremendous step forward. Why in the world we are having the difficulties we are in having to overcome a filibuster remains difficult for me to understand. 
   I want to talk a little bit about the homestead situation. 
   The Federal bankruptcy law says, with regard to how much money you can protect as your homestead will be determined by State law. 
   In Alabama, the State says you cannot keep more than $5,000 in your homestead. If you have more than $5,000 equity in your house, you need to go refinance it and use that money to pay the people the debts that you owe them. Why should you keep it and not pay your debt if you have this money? 
   In Texas, they say you can have an unlimited homestead exemption; also in Florida, Kansas, and several other States there is an unlimited homestead exemption. They did not want to give that up. I think it is an abuse. 
   We have an example of people leaving New York to go to Florida and buying a multimillion-dollar mansion on the beach, pumping all their assets into it, holding off creditors for a few months, and then filing bankruptcy, wiping out what they owe to everybody; and they are free to sell their million-dollar mansion and use the million dollars to live high and carefree for the rest of their days. That is not right. 
   So we dealt with that. It was not easy. We had a lot of people here who did not want to change that privilege of a State to set that homestead exemption. 
   In Alabama, you can, for example, move from Mobile to Pensacola, FL--50 miles away--put all your money in a multimillion-dollar house on the beach and defeat your creditors. That is not right, either. So we tried to do better. We came up with language that would stop that. Senator KOHL and I debated it right here. 
   This legislation provides for a 7-year look-back. If you can prove that a person moved to a State to gain preferential homestead treatment, and he moved assets into a house in order to file bankruptcy and defeat creditors, and if that happened within 7 years, you could set that aside. That is a big step forward--a big step to attack the most blatant fraud that occurs in this area. This provision is in the legislation. 
   By passing this legislation, we can stop this abuse right now. If we do not pass the legislation, we will be allowing this abuse to continue. 
   Let me talk about another very real problem, a loophole, a source of abuse that is causing problems and is very common. 
   People are using Federal bankruptcy laws to hold over on expired leases. That is a lease whose term is 1 year, and they are already beyond that 1 year. They have not paid their rent. It has been terminated, without the debtor paying rent, just like this ad refers to. 
   The sheriff of Los Angeles County has really spoken out aggressively on this. He said: ``3,886 people filed bankruptcy in 
   Los Angeles County in 1996 alone in order to prevent the execution of valid, court-issued eviction notices.'' 
   As this ad says: ``We can stop the sheriff and the marshal and get you  more time.'' You do not have to pay your rent. You do not have to pay maybe the lady who has two duplexes and it is her retirement income. You do not have to pay that. You can rip her off for 7 months. Just listen to us. 
   How does it happen? It does happen. Judge Zurzolo, in In re Smith, a Federal bankruptcy judge in Los Angeles, wrote this:  
   ..... the bankruptcy courts in the Central District of California are flooded with Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 cases filed solely for the purpose of delaying unlawful detainer evictions. Inevitably and swiftly following the filing of these bankruptcy cases is the filing of motions for relief of the Stay by landlords who are temporarily thwarted in this abuse of the bankruptcy court system.  
   In other words, what happens? They file bankruptcy. The landlord is seeking to evict them. They file a motion in the bankruptcy court to stay the landlord from proceeding with his eviction until the bankruptcy case is completed. Then the landlord has to go and hire a lawyer to file a motion to say that this isn't a valid use of the stay. A stay only protects you in an asset. If your lease has expired, it is not an asset. If it is not an asset, the court cannot protect it. It is the landlord's; it is not the tenant's, if the lease has expired. 
   So what happens? Mr. President, 3,886 of those were filed, according to the sheriff, simply for that purpose--to get this unfair extension of time without paying rent. 
   How we have a law in this country that promotes and allows this kind of abuse is beyond me. 
   The truth is when the landlord files these motions, he always wins because the lease has expired or it has been legally terminated, and as such the tenant does not have any property. He does not have an interest to be protected. It is the landlord's property, not the tenant's. It costs the landlord a lot of money; and a lot of months and weeks go by while he waits to be returned to rightful possession. The current law is abusive to these law-abiding landlords. We can help them--we can improve on current law--and we should. This bill provides that help. 
   It also allows, of course, all the State protections for eviction that every State provides. 
   California provides a lot before you can be evicted from an apartment or house. As the judge says: Contrary to the false representations made by these ``bankruptcy mills''--he is talking about this cottage industry of lawyers and advertisers who run this stuff--despite their representations, the debtor/tenants usually only obtain a brief respite from the consummation of the unlawful detainer convictions, after having paid hundreds of dollars to the lawyers. That is what the judge said. 
   There are 50,000 bankruptcies a year filed in the Central District of California. The judge says:  
   The mountain of paperwork that accompanies the thousands of abusive ``unlawful detainer'' case filings places an unnecessary burden on our already overworked and under-compensated clerk's office. Of course this mountain of paperwork flows from our clerk's office to the chambers of our judges when landlords file their relief from Stay motions. Because of the increased workload caused by these blatantly abusive unlawful detainer case filings, our court has had to establish special procedures dismissing these cases as quickly as possible so that the court's dockets and the clerk's files will not become more choked with paperwork than they already are.  
   I am not saying this. This is a Federal judge saying this, who deals with these cases every day. I am quoting:  
   These relief from stay motions are rarely contested and never lost as long as the moving party provides adequate notice of the motion and competent evidence to establish a prima facie case.  
   Well, how did this arise? How could such happen? Bankruptcy provides for an automatic stay. If someone is suing you and you file bankruptcy, you don't have to go to court and defend all those cases where you have not been able to pay your debts on time and a bunch of people sue you. If you go into bankruptcy, everything stops. You have only to answer to the bankruptcy judge who sorts out all these legal problems and tells you whom to pay and how much to pay. An expired lease does not constitute an asset of a bankruptcy estate, as the courts have plainly held. That is what this language says, and it will stop this abuse from continuing unchecked and spreading around the rest of the country as more and more of these bankruptcy mills are created. 
   It is expensive for the landlord to do this. He has to hire an attorney. Weeks go by. Maybe the lease was up. Maybe the mother wanted to turn the apartment over to her daughter to live in and the lease was up in January. She starts trying to get the person out, and come March or April or May or June, the person is still there. She has had to file for eviction. Then they get a lawyer who stays it for all this kind of time and really costs individuals a lot of money. There are 7, 8, 9 months without rent being paid and all the while the attorney's fees are adding up. This scenario is a real problem that this legislation fixes. 
   What about women and children? There have been suggestions that somehow women and children are disadvantaged under this legislation. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
   Priority payment: Under current Federal law, child support and alimony payments are seventh in the list of priority debts that must be paid off in a bankruptcy proceeding. Incidentally, what do you think is No. 1? Attorney's fees. In this bankruptcy business and industry, who has been roundly critical of this legislation and who has lobbied their buddies around this Senate telling them this is such a bad piece of legislation? Who is going to have to change their ways? The lawyers. They don't get No. 1 priority over child support any longer, under this bill, and that makes them nervous. 
   What do I mean by No. 1? Often people who file bankruptcy do have certain assets. Those assets are brought into the bankruptcy estate and added up. Let's say there is $5,000 of assets and $50,000 worth of debts. The bankruptcy judge starts paying off. Under the old law, the current law today, if the bankruptcy attorney's fee is $5,000, he gets it all. He has to go down six different steps, paying off six different groups of creditors, before he gets to child support and alimony. We say, if there is $5,000 in the estate and there is child support money owed, the child support money gets paid first out of that, and alimony. 
   How anyone can say that that is unfair to women and children is beyond me. It is beyond comprehension. Those who say that are not right. This is historic change to the benefit of women and children. Nobody can dispute what I have just said about that. It is plain fact. Let me say some other things it does. 
   This legislation requires that a parent who is filing bankruptcy--let's say a father, deadbeat dad, files for bankruptcy--must fulfill past due and current child support before he can get discharged from bankruptcy. The court is going to monitor him to make sure he is paying his child support. If he is not paying his child support, the court will not give the final discharge that wipes out his debts. He has to take care of his children first. 
   It also will ensure that custodial parents, the parents who have the custody of the children, get effective and timely 
   assistance from child support agencies. It requires the bankruptcy trustee or administrator--that is, this new law we are proposing and asking to be passed--to notify both the parent and the State child support collection agency when the debtor owing child support or alimony files for bankruptcy. In other words, a mother may not know that her ex-husband or the father of her child who lives in a distant State is even filing bankruptcy. What this says is, the mother has to be told; not only that, the State collection agency which is helping mothers collect the money has to be told so that they can intervene and make sure the child is protected. 
   It will provide timely and valuable information to parents to help collect child support. 
   Jonathon Burris of the California Family Support Council, a group that tries to protect mothers and children, wrote in an open letter to Congress that the provisions in this bill are ``a veritable wish list of provisions which substantially enhance our efforts to enforce support debts when a debtor has other creditors''--and they always have other creditors--``who are also seeking participation in the distribution of the assets of a debtor's bankruptcy estate.'' 
   Phillip Strauss of the District Attorney Family Support Bureau wrote the Judiciary Committee. I was Attorney  General of Alabama. I was involved in this. States have district attorneys associations. They can intervene on behalf of women and children to make sure child support is being paid and that the money is being collected. That is what he does full time. 
   He recently wrote the Judiciary Committee. This is a man whose business full-time is collecting money for children. He wrote our committee to express his unqualified support for this bill. 
   Mr. Strauss notes that he has been in the business of collecting child support for 27 years. He knows what he is talking about. He also notes that the National Child Support Enforcement Association, a national group of which he is a part, and the National District Attorneys Association and the Western Interstate Child Support Enforcement Council agree with him and support this legislation. 
   There has been this big talk about how this harms families. Let me describe an amendment I added that I think would be of tremendous benefit. 
   Mr. President, how much time do I have remaining? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for an additional 7 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001031</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. One of the things I have learned is that within every community in America there are agencies called credit counseling agencies. They sit down with families who have debt problems. They sit around a table. They even get the children in. They talk about what the income is, how much the debts are, how much current living expenses are. They help them establish a budget. 
   Some of them will even receive the money and pay the current debts regularly. They call up the banks and credit card companies and other people and ask for modifications of the payment schedule, a reduction in interest rates, and that sort of thing. They are very successful. They help families get mental health counseling if that is needed. They help families get treatment for gambling problems or drinking problems or drug problems. They help families--not like these mills, these bankruptcy mills, where people respond to an ad, a lawyer says they need so much money, and they say: I don't have this much money. The lawyer says to them--I am not exaggerating here--Use your credit card. Put all your bills on the credit card. Bring me your paycheck and pay me my fee. Don't pay anything else. Then we will file bankruptcy, and we will wipe out all those debts. So they get that. 
   They have a little clerk or a secretary or a paralegal who fills out the bankruptcy form. He doesn't see him again until they come to court. He shows up. They present their petition, and eventually the debts are wiped out. 
   And they don't know the names hardly of the people with whom they are dealing. They have no concern or empathy to really deal with the problems in that family. And we also know, from statistics, that the largest cause of marital breakup in America is financial problems. We need to do better about that. 
   So I offered an amendment that has been accepted, and everybody seems to be pleased with it--except some of the lawyers--and that is to say that every person, before filing bankruptcy ought to talk with a credit counseling agency to see if what they offer might be better than going through bankruptcy--no obligation, just talk to them. 
   I think a lot of people are going to find that they have other choices than just going to bankruptcy court. Some people need bankruptcy. We are not trying to stop bankruptcy. Some people need it to start over again--but not everybody. A lot of people can work their way through it with the help of a good credit counseling agency. I think this is a tremendous step forward. I am very excited about it, and I believe it will offer a lot of help to people struggling with their budgets today. 
   Now we have had a most curious development. We have had Senators for the last 2 years come down on this floor and go forward with the most vigorous attacks on credit card companies. Do you know what it is they say they do wrong? They say they write people letters and offer them credit cards. They say this is some sort of an abuse, some sort of preying on the poor, to offer people credit cards. 
   I am telling you, we have laws that this Congress has passed--banking laws and other rules--that say you can't deny credit to poor people unless you have a serious, objective reason to do so. Why in the world would we want to pass a law that would keep MasterCard, Visa, or American Express from writing somebody and saying: If you take my credit card, your interest rate will be such and such, and you can have 6 months at 3 percent interest--or whatever they offer--and if you want to change from the one you have, we have a better deal? 
   What is wrong with that? We often have competition. Interest rates, in my opinion, for credit cards are too high. I am too frugal to have much money run up on my credit card if I can avoid it. I don't like paying 18 or 20 percent interest. What is wrong with offering people an opportunity to choose a different credit card? If these companies were refusing poor people and would not send them notices of the opportunities to sign up, I suppose we would be beating them up and saying they are unfair to poor people or they are redlining them and cutting them off. I wanted to say that. To me, that is sort of bizarre. 
   Second, this is a bankruptcy court reform bill. We are here to deal with the process of what happens when a person files for bankruptcy. We are not here to reform banking laws and credit card laws that are within the jurisdiction of the Banking Committee. That committee considers that. It is really not a bankruptcy court problem, fundamentally. 
   But what have we done in order to get support for this bill and answer questions? We made a number of consumer-friendly amendments in this bill to satisfy those who have complained. Of course, as soon as you give them something, they are not happy, and they say you are defending the evil credit card companies; that is all you are doing, they say. 
   I am trying to create a rational way for people who can't pay their debts to go to court and wipe out their debts, but not rip off people whom they can pay because they have the money to pay. So we have a minimal credit warning, a toll-free number so debtors can find out information about their records. That will be required of credit card companies. 
   There are a lot of good things here that are not in current law. So to not pass this bill will eliminate the steps we have 
   made to put more limits and controls on credit card companies. Without a doubt, that is true. They might like to have a whole rewrite of credit card law in the bankruptcy bill, but that would be inappropriate. I think we have made steps in the right direction and we should continue in that direction. 
   As Senator GRASSLEY noted, there are terrific benefits for farmers under chapter 12. Chapter 12 provisions give additional benefits to farmers who file bankruptcy, and it expires this year. By not passing this bill, we are going to throw away the added protections that farmers have. How is that helping poor people and consumers? How does it help those who are having trouble with credit cards to vote down a bill that provides more demands on credit cards? 
   These are just a few ways, Mr. President, that this legislation improves current bankruptcy law. If time permitted, there are many more improvements that I would like to share with the members of this body. 
   In conclusion, I would just like to say that this bill includes many protections for women and children. It provides a long-overdue homestead fix, credit counseling, help for the family farmer and many other worthy provisions. A vote for this bill is a vote for much-needed change in the bankruptcy law in this country. As such, I strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. On behalf of the majority leader, I note that today the Senate will be in a period of morning business until 7 p.m., with Senators DOMENICI and REID in control of the time. A vote on a continuing resolution     
       NOTICE--OCTOBER 23, 2000 
     A final issue of the Congressional Record for the 106th Congress, 2d Session, will be published on November 29, 2000, in order to permit Members to revise and extend their remarks.     All material for insertion must be signed by the Member and delivered to the respective offices of the Official Reporters of Debates (Room HT-60 or S-123 of the Capitol), Monday through Friday, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. through November 28. The final issue will be dated November 29, 2000, and will be delivered on Friday, December 1, 2000.     None of the material printed in the final issue of the Congressional Record may contain subject matter, or relate to any event that occurred after the sine die date.     Senators' statements should also be submitted electronically, either on a disk to accompany the signed statement, or by e-mail to the Official Reporters of Debates at ``Records@Reporters''.     Members of the House of Representatives' statements may also be submitted electronically by e-mail, to accompany the signed statement, and formatted according to the instructions for the Extensions of Remarks template at http://clerkhouse.house.gov. The Official Reporters will transmit to GPO the template formatted electronic file only after receipt of, and authentication with, the hard copy, signed manuscript. Deliver statements to the Official Reporters in Room HT-60.     Members of Congress desiring to purchase reprints of material submitted for inclusion in the Congressional Record may do so by contacting the Congressional Printing Management Division, at the Government Printing Office, on 512-0224, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. daily.     By order of the Joint Committee on Printing.     WILLIAM M. THOMAS, Chairman.  
   that funds the Government until tomorrow morning will occur at 7 p.m. Senators should be aware that votes on continuing resolutions are expected each day. Senators should also be aware that multiple votes could occur each day starting tomorrow. Negotiations are ongoing, and it is still hoped that agreements can be made to wrap up the 106th Congress prior to the elections. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. What I understand is this, that the majority leader has made this proposal to the Democratic leader which has not been accepted as of yet; that he would ask unanimous consent we stand in recess when we complete our business today until 5 p.m. Tuesday, and that the time between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. be a period for morning business with the time equally divided, and that at 7 p.m. the Senate proceed to consider the 1-day continuing resolution and a vote occur immediately on the resolution when it is received from the House without amendments, debate, or motions in order. That will be the proposal at this point, as I understand it. But I am sure the majority leader would be open to improvements. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am sure the majority leader would work toward that end. I know it has been his goal since this Congress began to move the appropriations bills to not find us at this point. Frankly, I am sympathetic with the fact that he has tried to do that and has been frustrated time and again. I think some people wanted us to end up in this very position, and they got their wish. And as far as I am concerned, we can stay here until January 1 or December 31 to do our business. Wiser people will decide that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I do prefer to take off Christmas. But we have a high duty to do our work and do it right. 
   I thank the Senator for his comments, and I note that he desires, and I do, that we reach an accord. 
   I yield the floor and note the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the distinguished Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Looking at the chart, I joined this body in 1997, and at that time we had a very tough battle on this side to produce a modest tax reduction, the $500-per-child tax credit and reduce capital gains from 28 to 20 percent and even lower for lower income people. They told us that was going to run up the debt; we were going to have more debt. Looking at that chart, interest rates appear to have gone down and, in fact, our surpluses have occurred since then; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Actually reducing tax rates on capital gains increased income to the Government; is that fair to say? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I have remarks which I will give if the Senator is finished. I enjoyed so much hearing his analysis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, to follow up on the marvelous remarks that have gone before, I remember the first hearings I attended of the Joint Economic Committee. I tell this story about who gets the credit for the economy. Alan Greenspan was the witness that day. I am not a trained economist. I have been interested in these issues, but I am not a trained economist. 
   We started the discussion, and the chairman made a joke about who deserved credit for the economy: Was it Mr. Greenspan or was it President Clinton? Members on both sides joked about that and laughed a little bit, and we went on with the hearing. 
   I had an article from USA Today, not a great economic journal, but it was an interesting article, and it interviewed businessmen from Germany, Japan and England, asking them why the U.S. economy was doing so much better than theirs. They had double-digit unemployment of 12 and 13 percent, higher inflation, and less growth than we were having. They asked them why. They all agreed. They said it was because the United States, even though our taxes are high, had less taxes, less regulation, and a greater commitment to the free market. 
   I asked Mr. Greenspan if he agreed with that. He looked up at me and said: ``I absolutely agree with that.'' Less taxes, less regulation, and a greater commitment to the free market. ``Absolutely,'' he said, that is the basis for the sound American economy. 
   I think our taxes are still too high, but they are less than Europe. Our regulations are less, and we are more committed to letting free market forces allocate our resources than having the Government do it as they do in the European countries. I believe that is the basis for being successful. 
   I thought later what I really should have said at that time was that Ronald Reagan deserves credit for this economy because that is what he fought for and that is the direction we moved. 
   We have had substantial increases in taxes that have burdened Americans substantially. 
   There is one thing that troubles me about this economy, and that is the rising cost of fuel in America. If there is one thing that threatens our economic growth, it is the increase in energy prices. I have been talking with businessmen in my State. They tell me their concerns. Their profits are down. 
   I traveled with a truck driver from Birmingham to Clinton to Montgomery. He told me he is paying $800 more a month for fuel. I talked to businesspeople about their fuel costs. Families that were paying $100 a month this time last year for gasoline for their clunkers and all that they have their families driving around in, are now paying $160 a month for that fuel. That is $60 a month taken out of their family's budget that they could be spending for things in the marketplace. They will not be spending it in the marketplace because it is going to pay for energy costs. That is a threat to us. We need to break that cycle. 
   It occurred not so much because of economic forces but because of political actions by the OPEC nations when they got together and withheld supplies and drove up energy prices and sat there and collected billions of dollars from America. The OPEC politicians beat our politicians. They outsmarted us. They took advantage of our lack of production of American industry. We got even more and more indebted to them for our energy, and they drove up the price. We had no choice but to pay it. 
   We are paying 20 cents more, 60 cents more per gallon of gasoline and most of that is going straight to those countries. If we tax gasoline in America 50 cents a gallon, which is not too far from what we do, at least that money goes to the State of Alabama or to the Federal Government and is spent in the United States. In effect, OPEC has taxed us. Every time you go to the gas pump and pay for that gasoline, much of it is going straight out of our country. It is a huge transfer of American wealth. 
   It has the potential to not only damage the family budget but to damage our economy. I think we have to do something about it. 
   The long-term solution is to get serious and start increasing production. We have the capacity to increase production in the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to have 1 additional minute. 
   Mr. LOTT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield to the majority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will simply say this. In this election--since we are talking about elections here on the other side--the American people have a choice: Will they elect a President who, with his deepest core beliefs, would be a no-growth, no-production kind of President or will we elect a President who understands America's critical need for energy and who will help create policies that are environmentally sound, that will allow us to remove ourselves from under this yoke of the OPEC cartel? 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in recess until 2 p.m. Tuesday, and that the time between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. be for a period of morning business with the time between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. under the control of Senators REID and WELLSTONE and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. under the control of the majority leader. 
   I ask unanimous consent that following the recess of the Senate on Tuesday, October 31, 2000, the Senate be authorized to receive a continuing resolution funding the Government for one day, and that upon receipt the continuing resolution be considered passed.  
   I further ask unanimous consent that if the Senate receives a continuing resolution containing anything other than a one day provision, the Senate be authorized to receive that continuing resolution, and that at 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday, October 31, 2000, the Senate reconvene and immediately proceed to the consideration of that continuing resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, let me announce to the Members exactly what this consent would provide. 
   The Senate will reconvene at 2 p.m. on Tuesday and basically spend the day conducting morning business. 
   Assuming the House passes a clean 1-day continuing resolution, that would be done without a vote and, therefore, there would be no votes during Tuesday's session of the Senate. 
   All Senators are reminded that a cloture vote on the bankruptcy bill will occur during the day on Wednesday. All Senators will be notified as to the exact time of that vote on Wednesday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it recess until the hour of 2 p.m. on Tuesday, October 31. 
   I further ask unanimous consent that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then proceed to a period of morning business until 6 p.m., with Senators speaking for up to 10 minutes each as under the previous order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene tomorrow at 2 p.m. with up to 4 hours for morning business, with Senators REID and WELLSTONE and LOTT in control of the time. 
   Under the previous order, the continuing resolution will be passed by unanimous consent. 
   As a reminder, cloture was filed on the bankruptcy bill today. That cloture vote will occur during the day on Wednesday, as well as a vote on a continuing resolution. Senators will be notified as those votes are scheduled. 
   On behalf of the leader, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess under the previous order following the remarks for up to 5 minutes each for Senators WELLSTONE, SCHUMER, and SESSIONS. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am disheartened to hear the Senator from New York would take such a strong position on this bill since he had been an original promoter of it. It passed this body by 90 votes, at least twice, I think three different times--88 or 90 votes. It is good to see Senator GRASSLEY here, who was the prime sponsor of the legislation. To have it die over this one issue is really unbelievable, particularly since Senator GRASSLEY and others have offered several different ways we could meet the objections on the abortion clinic language, which I consider to be awfully insignificant in the line of the legislation except for the important philosophical and legal points. I think it will be a tragedy if we do not. 
   This bill passed this body by around 90 votes, over 90 votes one time--three different times. It has been debated in committee. If I am not mistaken, the vote was 18-2 in committee, the Judiciary Committee, on which Senator GRASSLEY and I served and brought that bill out. It is a bipartisan bill. 
   I, along with Senator REID, got involved with working with the White House not long ago on reaffirmations, the one issue they said was left to settle, and we settled that issue to the satisfaction of the White House. 
   Now what do we have? A move to kill, once again, good bipartisan legislation that has been overwhelmingly supported in this Senate. It is a shame and a disgrace. It is outrageous that somehow, some way, we passed this with veto-proof majorities and we are not able to get it up for a last vote or get it passed. 
   I feel strongly about that. Maybe now we can get it out of here and the President will see fit to sign it. The homestead language Senator WELLSTONE mentioned, I agree with him. I think we ought to make bigger changes in the provisions that say people can put all the money they want to in a homestead and not have it taken from them in bankruptcy. You could put $10 million in 160 acres and a mansion and you would not have to give it up to pay your just debts to your doctor, to the gas station down the street, to the friends from whom you borrowed money. That is not right. 
   We made, though, for the first time, over the vigorous objections of several key States that have those kinds of provisions in their State Constitutions--Texas, Florida, Kansas--they fought tenaciously for that, but we made historic progress in limiting the ability of a debtor to hide his assets in a multimillion-dollar mansion. That was a great step forward. To say we ought to keep current law, which has no controls whatsoever, and not pass this bill, that has the first historic steps to control debt abuse, is really cutting off your nose to spite your face. That is the kind of thing we are hearing. 
   Let me tell you what this bill fundamentally does. It says if you are of median income--that is, $44,000 for a family of four--if you are a family of four and you are making below that $44,000, you can be bankrupt and not pay any of your debts, just as the current law says. But if you are making above that and the judge concludes you can pay a part of your debts--10 
   percent or more--then he can order you to go into chapter 13 and pay back some of the debts that you can pay back. 
   What is wrong with that? We have had a doubling of filings in bankruptcy over the last 10 years. We have over a million bankruptcies filed per year. It is being done primarily because lawyers are advertising. Turn on your TV anytime at night and you will see they are there: ``Solve your debt problems, call Old John, 1-800. We will take care of your debts.'' 
   Do you know, if you owe $60,000 and you really don't want to pay that $60,000 debt, and today you are making $80,000, you can go down to a bankruptcy lawyer, file chapter 7, and wipe out that debt and not pay one dime of it? You can do that. There is no control. It is being done all over America today and it is not right. What does that say to a good, hard-working family who sits down around the kitchen table, pray tell, and tries to figure out how they can pay their debts? This family does not buy a new car, does not go on a vacation, does everything right, they pay their debts, and clever John goes down to the bankruptcy lawyer and doesn't pay his debt. Something is wrong in America when we allow that kind of abuse to occur time and time again. 
   It is true--I do not believe it is 3 percent--the majority of people who file bankruptcy will not be affected by this bill. But those who are abusing it will be. If you are a doctor and you are making $150,000 a year and you owe $300,000 in student loans and other debts, and you can pay $50,000 of that, shouldn't you be required to pay it? We have examples of physicians declaring bankruptcy against all their debts when they could have easily paid a substantial number of them. Why shouldn't they pay what they can pay? 
   In America, we believe if you are hopelessly in debt and you cannot pay out, we give people--and we always have--the right to file bankruptcy. It is just that it has become so common, the process of advertising and filings. The numbers are going up. While the economy is hitting records we have never had before, filings in bankruptcy keep going up. What is going to happen when we have a serious problem in this country? 
   We have worked hard. I put in a provision that says before you file bankruptcy, you ought to talk to a credit counseling agency. Credit counseling agencies actually help people who are in debt. They help them set up budgets, they advise them whether or not they can pay off their debts. If not, they will go to a lawyer and file bankruptcy. But if they could pay it off, pay down the  high interest notes first, negotiate with creditors, set up a payment plan, get the whole family in--if there is a drug problem, gain treatment; if there is a mental health problem, get treatment. Gamblers Anonymous can be used for people who have these problems. A lot of these things are driving bankruptcy. 
   None of that is occurring in bankruptcy court. Lawyers come in, they claim a $1,000 fee, or $2,000, or whatever, and their secretaries fill out the forms. They don't even meet the client until they get to court. The judge declares all their debts wiped out, and they walk out of court. That is not helping treat the root cause. But credit counseling does. It says: We respect you, American men and women. We want to help you get your financial house in order, and if you can avoid bankruptcy, we will show you how and help you do that. 
   That is a good step in the right direction. 
   There are a lot of other things in this bankruptcy bill that improve the law. It has not been changed in over 25 years. We have new experience with the law. We have seen a host of abuses of the law, loopholes through which people are driving trucks. We closed those loopholes. 
   For the most part, it has been overwhelmingly received by everybody in this body. Over 90 Senators in this Senate have voted for it, Democrats and Republicans. The White House has approved all of these. 
   We have a problem with bankruptcy. We can do better. This bill is fair. It raises protections for women and children far above anything before. 
   Before, lawyers and other debts were paid before child support. In this bill, alimony and child support are raised to the highest level. The first money paid goes to pay child support. That is a big, positive change. By killing this bill, that will not happen. The old rules will be in effect and children and women will not get that preferential treatment. 
   We can do better. This is a good bill. I think the President will reconsider. He has been involved in this process for well over 3 years, as we have been wrestling with it, having hearings and debates on this floor and in the House. To say this is sneaking the bill in is really unbelievable. It has been a source of regular debate and bipartisan agreement, and now we get to the very last of this session and see an effort to derail it over this odd idea that out of all the activities in America, if you get sued by an abortion clinic, you cannot file for bankruptcy. 
   One of the suggestions I made and others have made is, what about a union group that tears down a business? What about a group of environmental activists that tears up and protests and illegally does business? Do they get to claim bankruptcy against their debts, but not those who go to an abortion clinic because they are religious, I suppose? 
   Why should we have such a double standard, a political law in bankruptcy? That is a political act, not something that ought to be in the bankruptcy court of America. 
   I said if you either take it out or draw it broadly and it covers similar acts by other groups, then I will support it, but I am not going to vote for a law that simply targets one group that one Senator does not like. What is right about that? How is that good law? Some Senators and the President do not like abortion protesters. I guess he thinks they are too religious, so they do not get to claim bankruptcy, but everybody else does. People who put metal spikes in trees that injure people in the forest business, I guess they do not count. 
   That is where we are on this. That is such an infinitesimal problem which we can overcome, unless the real agenda is to see bankruptcy does not pass. I hope that is not so. We have gone too far. We have worked too hard. We have a bill that has bipartisan support. I am hopeful yet that the President will sign it, and it will be good for America. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001030</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent to be able to speak for 15 minutes in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I also note, on behalf of the majority leader, that it appears that the House of Representatives will not send the continuing resolution over until 7:30 p.m. or later, so we will continue, I suppose, in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I would like to say a number of things. First of all, there is no reason for us to be here today on Sunday. It is not necessary. No good purpose is occurring. We had weeks of debate on the Patients' Bill of Rights. The Senator from Massachusetts is repeating those arguments. We had weeks of debate on education, of which I was a part. 
   Now we come back, at the very end, and we are going to have a rehash of all of that. The President is going to hold up this legislation needed to operate this Government. He asks that the Congress come back on a daily basis--even on Sunday--to debate it. Somehow he thinks maybe through this political mechanism he can change a dynamic that is taking place in the American public. They are beginning to make a decision that, in my view, the White House is not happy about, and they are desperate to try to change that dynamic, to change that trend, and to try to create a disturbance on the floor of this Congress about matters we have been talking about all year, that should not be coming up now. 
   There is no need for us to be here today. But we are here. I will be here every day that we need to be here. I will be here until Christmas. I will be here, Lord willing, after this President leaves office. And we will be talking about these issues. 
   It is important that we do the right thing, that we not just be stampeded and pushed around and be worried about elections so we are afraid to vote because the President is out here saying ugly things about us if we don't do what he says. It is our duty to do the right thing. We have been considering these issues for months. We have been debating them for months. That is all we are about here today, to do the right thing. 
   I hope the leaders on this side of the aisle do not do things just to get out of here. I am willing to stay, and other people I know are willing to stay, if need be, to debate and work toward a reasonable compromise, or to stand firm, if need be, on the issues that are important to America. 
   I know the Senator from Massachusetts discussed the patients' bill of rights that Governor Bush allowed to become law in Texas. That bill did have the right to sue in it. It was a big part of our debate in the HELP Committee--the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee--of which I am a member and of which the Senator from Massachusetts is a member. 
   As I recall, several months ago, the Democrats were all touting this Texas bill because it has the right to sue in it, beyond what I think ought to be made a part of a health care reform bill. 
   The Patients' Bill of Rights that came out of this Senate was debated. Amendments were offered on this floor. And they lost. The bill that came out of this Senate--and that is in debate in conference today--what does it do? 
   When we talk about the right to sue, we are not talking about a doctor who might cut off the wrong leg and that you can't sue that doctor. It simply is, if an insurance company says this procedure--for example, maybe it is a cosmetic procedure and is 
   not covered in your insurance policy, so they cannot pay for it; and the patient says: Yes. I think you should pay for it. So they want to have suits for punitive damages that go for years. 
   So what was created in this legislation was a mechanism for every patient to have certain rights to get a prompt and full determination of what is just, and get their coverage if they are entitled to it. 
   The way it would work would be that a physician could call and talk to an insurance company physician, an expert. If they do not agree that this was covered, they then could appeal to an out-of-the-insurance company expert or arbitrator approved by HCFA, the Health Care Financing Administration--the Federal Government--President Clinton's HCFA. They could then appeal and get an objective ruling on whether or not this was covered. Then there are certain litigation rights that continue to exist, in any case. 
   But what I am hearing is, business companies that are providing insurance to their employees are saying: This costs us a lot of money. We are doing it for our employees. But if you are going to have us sued, Congress, we will just get out of the business of insuring our employees. We will just give our employees a certain amount of money and they can buy insurance or not buy insurance. It will not be our problem if they do not buy it. Tough luck. We have been doing this, but we are not going to be in the position that we are going to be sued. 
   That was a big deal in this very Congress. And the law in Texas is more generous on lawsuits than the one we approved in this Senate. 
   Senator KENNEDY wanted wide-open lawsuits. He supported that aggressively, but he lost. He did not win that issue. It is not the will of this Senate. We ought not to be worrying about this  at this point in time, this late in the day, when we need to approve legislation to fund this Government. 
   The Senator from Massachusetts also came to the floor to talk about education. Yes, it is a top priority. We are increasing funding for education. I am on the education committee. We discussed that. In the last 2 years this Congress has spent more money on education than President Clinton asked for. We increased his request for education money. We spent more than he asked for. 
   But what was the debate? It went on an extended period of time right here. The debate was: Who is going to direct how it all gets spent? Were we going to trust the men and women who run our schools, the men and women who have been elected in each one of our communities to be on the school board? Are we going to trust them to spend more of this Federal money or are we going to continue to micromanage education dollars from Washington? 
   I have been in 20 schools this year. I have met with principals, teachers, and students in each of these schools. I always set a time to meet with the principals and teachers, and usually school board members drop in, and I ask them what their problems are. 
   I say: The Federal Government gives about 7 percent of the cost of education in America; 93 percent comes from State and local governments. I ask: Based on the regulations and paperwork, the interruption in your ability to discipline in the schools caused by Federal regulation, which would you prefer--the Federal Government take its 7 percent and leave, take away the paperwork and the rules and regulations, or get the 7 percent? 
   The answer: Take your money and go. 
   These are teachers who have given their lives to education. They are passionate about this. They don't want a Federal bureaucracy in Washington running their schools. What they would like is as much money as we can get to them. And we are increasing funding for State education well above the inflation rate, two or three times the inflation rate above what President Clinton has asked for. We tried to pass a new Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which is up for reauthorization this year. We had to stop considering it basically because of a filibuster from the other side. We voted. We had amendments. We went on for over 2 weeks debating the issue. 
   The other side was losing that debate. They were losing the votes. But if you don't have over 60 votes here, you can't shut off debate. The majority leader urged them to agree to a time limit. He said we can have many more amendments, and let's vote on them and bring this bill to conclusion. But they would not because, in fact, they had a filibuster going on. They did not want to change this old educational system that is run by bureaucracies 10 feet deep, people who have lost sight of what education is all about. All they want to do is make sure their accounting is right in every school system in America. 
   There are over 700 Federal education programs in this country. The other side keeps arguing that we can't get rid of them. No, we can't consolidate them. No, we can't trust the people in our communities we elect to run our schools. No, they are not to be trusted. We have to tell them what to do. One Senator on this floor said: They may spend the money on swimming pools. Who knows best how to educate children--professional educators, teachers who have given their lives to it, principals who are dedicated to it, or some Senator here who has thousands of issues that come before them, everything from Medicare, Social Security, the attack on the U.S.S. Cole, all those issues? We don't know education. Neither does AL GORE know education. 
   I will tell you who has been wrestling with education for six years, and that is the Governor of Texas. Governors are involved in education. When he talks about education, he talks about it with a deep and abiding passion because he understands it. He has been in schools all over Texas. He is hearing the same things I have heard in the 20 schools I have been in around Alabama this year: that the Federal Government is not an aid, is not helping us, it is hurting us. 
   We have Federal regulations that keep children in classrooms who are a threat to the teacher and the students, and they cannot be removed because of Federal rules. We have paperwork that is driving them crazy. They can't spend the money on what they need to spend it on. They have to spend it only on what this Government and its 700 education programs say to spend it on. 
   So we tried to fix that. We couldn't do it because of the President and the filibuster that went on here. If we elect the Governor of Texas, who has managed education, as Governors do, who ran on education, got elected on education, and was elected with a 69-percent vote for reelection on education, we are going to get 
   some changes. 
   The bureaucrats in Washington, the special interest crowd in Washington, the group that tries to turn out votes in elections, those people are not going to be happy. But teachers, principals, parents, and school board members are going to be happy because it is time for a change. It is time to break this Washington stranglehold on education. We give less than 10 percent of the money for education, but we micromanage how it is all spent. It is not acceptable, and we must stop it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question? Does the Senator from Texas yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to engage the distinguished Senator from Tennessee in a brief colloquy to clarify language in the Public Health Improvement Act of 2000 as it pertains to public health countermeasures to a bio-terrorist attack. 
   I commend my colleague for bringing such an important measure to the Senate floor. His legislation addresses several weaknesses that persist today in the pre-crisis and consequence management phases of an attack by a terrorist using a weapon of mass destruction, WMD. Since the end of the cold war, our nation has strived to address how we might cope with an event the likes of which we have never seen on our soil; an event that could easily produce thousands of civilian casualties. To this end the government has taken some steps to train responders, provide them needed equipment, and in rare cases created exercises to test systems and response capabilities. The nation is making strides, and government is spending billions on all sorts of related programs. Yet, I think we remain adrift and ill-prepared to address both the cause and effect of a WMD event, particularly one involving a biological weapon. 
   American's Public Health system is second to none. It has the inherent capacity to thoroughly plan, properly train, and expertly execute tasks associated with a crisis. My colleague's experience in the field of medicine takes the need for planning and training for a bio-terrorist event to the next level by requiring the establishment of two interagency working groups. Each is designed to bring the expertise resident in the government today forward in a constructive manner which will allow agencies to set in motion processes that will result in increased planning, preparedness and most importantly response. 
   One of the failures of WMD programs found elsewhere in the nation and elsewhere in the government is the unnecessary proliferation of new bureaucracies created to manage new programs, grants, and training programs at the expense of producing qualified graduates. Therefore, I believe in this instance that it is extremely important to use existing Public Health Service training facilities, particularly those with WMD training programs in place whenever practical to respond to the training needs of medical professionals outlined in this legislation. Does the Senator from Tennessee agree that these PHS facilities, which already have the infrastructure in place to implement weapons of mass destruction training and related activities, should be considered as an eligible applicant of any grants or new training initiatives initiated by the Secretary? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to thank my colleague for his hard work on this issue. I, too, look forward to working with my friend from Tennessee and other colleagues on this important issues.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President I rise to day to pay tribute to the Local 1945 Chapter of the American Federation of Government Employees. 
   On December 1, 1959 the charter of the American Federation of Government Employees (Local 1945) was established at Anniston Army Depot. Of the seventy-eight charter members that established Local 1945, only nine survive today. 
   These nine leaders in government service, through their courage and dedication, were instrumental in the development of a proud and professional workforce for Anniston Army Depot and the Department of Defense. The workforce these individuals cared for and inspired has supported United States soldiers around the world during times of conflict, crisis and war. In the jungles of Vietnam, along the thirty-eighth parallel, and in the sands of Kuwait have been evidenced the dedication of the Anniston Army Depot employees to their nation's soldiers. Tanks, small arms, and munitions did not leave the hills of Alabama alone but were accompanied by the thoughts and prayers of a humble and caring group of federal employees shaped in many ways, by these special nine men. 
   Today, while we seek to honor these fine men in the sunset of their lives it must be noted that the traditions of excellence and integrity they gave to their co-workers still survives in youthful exuberance, rekindled by this remembrance. 
   In homage to: Billy Bean; Elmer Graham; Raymond Guthrie; Atwell Burgess; William Hammond; Raymond Lusk; George Hunt; J.B. Perry; and William Hagan.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I commend my colleague from Vermont, Senator LEAHY, for his support in getting this bill passed. Our Armed Forces and their families are in desperate need of this legislation and it has been a long time coming. This legislation  closes a legal loophole which prevented effective prosecution of certain crime committed by civilians accompanying the Armed Forces overseas. When civilian dependents, contractors, and Federal employees go overseas with the military, the Uniform Code of Military Justice and the Federal criminal code generally do not apply to them. Therefore, if one of these civilians commits a criminal act--even a serious one such as rape or child molestation--then he or she could be beyond the reach of Federal law if the foreign authorities refuse or neglect to prosecute. Surprisingly, host countries often choose to not prosecute American civilians, especially where the crime was committed against another American or against property owned by an American or the U.S. Government. That is why this legislation is needed. 
   Since this legislation initially passed the Senate on July 1, 1999, the House of Representatives, under the leadership of Representative MCCOLLUM of Florida, took the bill and further refined it based upon concerns that arose after Senate Consideration. In addition, Mr. MCCOLLUM submitted House Report 106-778 to accompany the House version of the bill--H.R. 3380. This report does an outstanding job of outlining the background and need for this legislation. The report also includes a section-by-section analysis and discussion of the legislation. We have agreed to incorporate the text of H.R. 3380 into this final bill. I have reviewed House Report 106-778, and I agree with it. I believe that report reflects the intentions of the Senate. At this time, I yield to my distinguished colleague from Vermont. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to offer an amendment in the nature of a substitute to H.J. Res. 102, recognizing the ``Birmingham Pledge'' and its author, Birmingham attorney James E. Rotch, for the contributions it and he have made to healing wounds of racial prejudice that still, unfortunately, divide segments of our society. The Birmingham Pledge is a powerful declaration that has had a profound impact on those who have heard or seen it. It uses words of conviction and purpose that promote racial harmony by helping people communicate about racial issues in a positive way and by encouraging people to make a commitment to racial harmony. By affixing our signatures to the message conveyed by these words, we are, in effect, saying to the world that we stand for freedom and equality for all, regardless of race or color. Further, we are saying that we will not tolerate discrimination leveled at anyone simply because of their race or color. The words of the Pledge are as follows:  
   I believe that every person has worth as an individual. I believe that every person is entitled to dignity and respect, regardless of race or color. I believe that every thought and every act of racial prejudice is harmful; if it is in my thought or act, then it is harmful to me as well as to others. Therefore, from this day forward I will strive daily to eliminate racial prejudice from my thoughts and actions. I will discourage racial prejudice by others at every opportunity. I will treat all people with dignity and respect; and I will strive to honor this pledge, knowing that the world will be a better place because of my effort.  
   These words do not reflect any new science or ground-breaking theory, instead they reflect the time-honored principles, not always followed, that have made this country the greatest example of individual liberty and freedom the world has ever known. 
   The words of the Birmingham Pledge are reflective of those used by Thomas Jefferson in penning the Declaration of Independence so may years ago. Jefferson wrote that ``all Men are created equal, [and] that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights.'' That language is clear. Thousands of citizens in Birmingham and Alabama and throughout this country and the world have recommitted themselves to these principles, and by offering this Pledge to the rest of the country, we ask everyone else to be rededicated to them, too. By signing this pledge, people make an outward showing of that commitment. Again, that is why I, on behalf of my constituents, offer this Joint Resolution. In addition to calling us to our uniquely American heritage, the words of the Birmingham Pledge also recognize Birmingham's unfortunate history as a site of significant civil rights confrontation. The Pledge conveys, as does the city's political and economic reality, that Birmingham has moved forward from that difficult time in its history to a more complete embrace of the principles embodied in this Pledge. Indeed, the city has experienced an astonishing measure of social, political, and economic progress in recent years. 
   More than 70,000 people around the world have seen the merit of the Birmingham Pledge and signed it because they thought it was the right thing to do. Those signing it include the President, Members of Congress, Governors, state legislators, mayors, county commissioners, city council members, clergymen, students, and the list goes on. The point is, a broad cross-section of our society has embraced the high principles conveyed in the Birmingham Pledge because they see it as a powerful tool to facilitate dialogue on racial issues and additionally as a way for people to take personal steps to achieve racial harmony and tolerance in the communities in which they live. This Resolution simply recognizes the good work that the Birmingham Pledge has already accomplished, and the potential it has for further progress in this important area of our national and international life. In order to increase awareness of the Birmingham Pledge and to further its message, this resolution calls for the establishment of a National Birmingham Pledge Week. Setting aside such a period of time to further the message of the Birmingham Pledge and to celebrate the marked progress we have made in the area of racial harmony would be a fitting way to recognize the influence the Pledge is having on race relations in communities all across America and around the world. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am compelled to respond to some of the outlandish allegations that have been made against the bipartisan bankruptcy bill that passed this Senate twice with over 90 votes, I believe, both times. It is a bill that has been under discussion for well over 2 years. I personally negotiated not long ago with the White House and Senator REID the last problem we had with the bill. We worked that out to the satisfaction of those who were negotiating it. I thought we were well on the way to finally passing this bill. 
   What we have in this body is a group of Senators who vote for it but, when the chips are down, don't help us get it up for the final vote. 
   The suggestion that there has been no opportunity for debate is certainly wrong. We debated it in committee, extensively in the Judiciary Committee, where I am a member. We debated it on the floor two separate years and earlier this year in great detail. We received a whole host of amendments, and we debated those amendments in detail. We voted on those amendments. It has gone to conference. Now we have a bill on the floor, and Senators are complaining that they can't now offer more amendments. You don't amend a conference report after it has been to conference. That is true of every bill that ever goes through this body. 
   It is shocking to me to hear some of the things that have been said about this bill. What this legislation does is say we have to do something about this incredible increase in the filing of bankruptcies in America. Over a million--it has doubled in 10 or 12 years--is the number of people who have been filing bankruptcy. Why is that so? Because you can go to your bankruptcy lawyer and if you owe $30,000 and you make $30,000 a year, you can file bankruptcy, not pay your debts, not pay one dime that you owe--not a dime--and walk away scot-free by filing under chapter 7. That is happening every day in this country, and it is an absolute abuse. It is wrong. 
   The family that does its best every day to pay its debts and tries to do right, are they chumps? Are they dumb because they don't run up a bunch of debts and not pay their debts and then go down to the bankruptcy lawyer and just file bankruptcy, even though they could have paid those debts if they tried to do so? 
   This bill addresses at its fundamental core the bankruptcy machine that is out there being driven by advertising you see on your TVs virtually every night all over America until 11 or 12 o'clock. There are these ads: Got debt problems? Call old Joe, the bankruptcy lawyer. He will take care of you. 
   Do you know what they tell them when they get there? They say: First of all, Mr. Client, you need to pay me $1,000, $2,000. 
   I really don't have that, Mr. Lawyer. 
   Don't pay any more debts. Get all your paychecks. Collect all your paychecks. Bring the money to me. Keep paying on your credit card. Run up your debt, and then we will file bankruptcy for you, and we will wipe out all the debts; you won't have to pay them. 
   The lawyer gets his money. There are lawyers of whom I am aware personally who get paid $1,000 or more and have done 1,000 or more in 1 year. That is $1 million a year, just routine, running this money through the system, basically ripping off people who need to be paid. 
   Make no mistake about it, when an individual does not pay what he owes and what he could pay, we all pay. Who pays? The one who is honest and pays his debts. He ultimately gets stuck with higher interest rates. The businesses lose money and can't afford to operate. That is what is happening. 
   They say: Well, it is health care. If you have severe medical problems and you are not able to pay your debts, you ought not to have to pay your debts. 
   But why should you be able to not pay the hospital, if you can? That is the question. If you can pay the bill, shouldn't you pay it? That is the question. 
   The fundamental part of this bill is, if you are making above median income in America, that is adjusted by how many children you have. If you have more children, your income level goes up for median income--the factors included in that. So if you can't pay your debt, you get to wipe out all your debts just like today under chapter 7. If your income is $100,000 a year and you owe $50,000 and you can easily pay at least some of that $50,000, under this law--and you make above median income--you can ask the creditors whom who you are not paying to ask the judge to put you into chapter 13. The judge may say: Mr. Debtor, you owe $50,000. We don't believe you can pay all the debt. You need to pay $10,000 of that back, and you will pay it so much a month over 3 years in chapter 13. 
   Chapter 13 is not a disaster. It is not a horrible thing. As a matter of fact, in my State, chapter 13 is exceedingly popular. I believe more than half of the bankruptcy filings in Alabama are filed under chapter 13 instead of chapter 7, which just wipes out your debt. With chapter 13, you go to the judge and say: I have more debts than I can pay. The creditors are calling me, and I can't pay all of them at once. The judge says: OK, stop. Pay all of your money to the court, and we will pay it out to each one of these creditors so much a month. You get to have so much to live on for you and your family. 
   It works pretty well. We need to do more of this. That is what this legislation will do. That is the fundamental principle. 
   They say: Well, it doesn't do anything about credit card solicitations. 
   This isn't a credit card bill. This is a debt bill. This is a bankruptcy bill. We have a banking committee that deals with credit card legislation. We had votes on credit card legislation on the floor, and people have had their say. Some passed, and some didn't. This is not a credit card bill. This is a bill to reform a legal system in America, the bankruptcy court system, which is a Federal court system that I believe is in a disastrous condition. 
   We have had this surge of bankruptcy filings. It has become a common thing to just up and file for bankruptcy. People used to have a severe aversion to ever filing for bankruptcy. Now that is being eroded by the advertisements and so forth that they see. There is an abuse going on. 
   They say it does not do anything for women and children. I am astounded at that. Under this law, alimony and child support will be moved up to the No. 1 priority in bankruptcy--even above the lawyers. That is probably why we got such an objection. The bankruptcy lawyers are the ones stirring this up, in my view. 
   That means if a deadbeat dad wants to file bankruptcy and doesn't pay his debt, comes in and has a low or moderate salary and doesn't want to pay anybody, under the old law his child support was way down behind the lawyer fees, bankruptcy fees, and some other things. We moved it up to No. 1. The first money that comes into the bankruptcy pot, if there is any, comes in there. Normally, that money goes to pay child support, which is, I believe, a historic move in favor of children. 
   This bill has broad support. It was suggested earlier that small business is being hurt by it. Small business favors it. They all favor this. 
   We are not stampeding this bill. This bill has been delayed unconscionably. It should have passed 2 years ago. It should have passed last year. It ought to pass this year. We have a veto-proof majority in the House and a veto-proof majority in the Senate.  
   It helps this economy. It helps bring integrity back into the system. It allows individuals to go down there to bankruptcy and represent themselves. They don't even have to have a lawyer. It has a lot of different things in it that are good. It eliminates a lot of loopholes and abuses that everybody agrees need to be fixed. 
   I can't understand this. It seems to me there is some sort of effort to yell, scream, and just say how horrible it is, and perhaps provide some figleaf to encourage the President to veto this bill. I hope he does not. 
   They say: Well, it has a protection in there for millionaires to have money in their houses in Florida and Texas and States that have an unlimited homestead exemption. 
   That is a problem. I have fought to eliminate that. We were not able to do that. The States that have the historic State procedures on this fought us tooth and claw. But this bill makes substantial progress toward eliminating that view. There is no doubt that the problem with homestead is far better in this legislation today than it is under current law if we don't do anything about it. A vote against this bill is a vote to keep the ineffective, bad current law, and not make the improvement this bill makes. 
   I believe it is good legislation. Senator GRASSLEY has worked on it tenaciously. We have been very cooperative with others who have problems. Time and again, it has been fixed to accommodate concerns that others would have. I believe it is a fair bill. I believe it is a good bill. I believe it is time for this country to improve what is going on in bankruptcy all over America today. And most bankrupts are entitled to it and need it. 
   But there are substantial numbers with high incomes who could pay large portions of that debt, if they wanted to. But once they talked to those lawyers who tell them they don't have to, they file under chapter 7 and wipe out much of their debts, and they go on leaving someone else to carry the burden. 
   I thank the Chair for the time. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this Capital and in the world too seldom do people of real achievement, people who have given of themselves sacrificially for others, receive proper recognition. As Leo Durocher once said, ``Nice guys finish last.'' But, today there is good news. I want to celebrate the fact that good things do happen to those who serve in America. Often, it takes time, often it comes only after long years of service, but our country still remains capable of recognizing excellence. 
   Today I want to describe for you the magnificent contributions to children, to teachers, to community and to the highest ideals of education and enrichment that have been made by Alabama's Distinguished Principal of the Year, Mr. Terry Beasley. The Greeks once said that the purpose of education is more than technical learning, it was to make a person ``good''. In those days, people apparently didn't have the difficulty distinguishing between good and the bad that we seem to have today. In addition to academic excellence, in abundance, Terry Beasley exemplifies ``the good.'' 
   Although I did not know he was being considered for this award and had absolutely nothing to do with his selection, the name ``Mr. Beasley'' has always held the highest position in our family. You see, he taught our children at Mary B. Austin elementary School, a part of the public school system in Mobile County, AL, my home. He taught math and his name was mentioned with the greatest respect, even awe, by my children. 
   You could tell just the way they said ``Mr. Beasley'' and how often the name ``Mr. Beasley'' was repeated, that they knew he was special. 
   My wife, Mary, a former elementary school teacher herself, was a regular volunteer parent in the classroom at Mary B. Austin. She knew Mr. Beasley then and the fire reputation he had with teachers, principal, parents and students. People still talk about the famous school playday when Mr. Beasley would not only play ball with the children but would race the bases and slide into home. Our friends, also, with children in the school, frequently discussed his remarkable skill as a teacher and his dedication to teaching. 
   Before he became a teacher. Terry Beasley was a minister and youth director at a Mobile church. He considered that perhaps teaching could be a calling too, and decided to give it a try. In fact, the scripture lists ``teacher'' as a person who can be called. So he decided to give it a try. It was a divine inspiration, indeed. As he told me recently, it soon became clear to him that ``I had found my calling in teaching''. His first job was at Mary B. Austin. Certainly, his later skills as a principal benefitted from the fact that he was able to work under and observe the great leadership skills of Glenys Mason, who was principal at Austin at the time, and to work with excellent teachers. 
   Later, he moved across Mobile Bay to the Baldwin County school system and became principal at Fairhope Elementary School. They have 370 students and 36 teachers in the second and third grade school. Under Mr. Beasley's leadership the school has flourished. 
   Last year the school was recognized as having the best physical fitness program in Alabama, and was also recognized for its Kindness and Justice Program which teaches 
   kindness and consideration to others with reference to the teachings of Dr. Martin Luther King.--We need to be intentional about these character programs. Finally, the school was also recognized as having the best elementary environmental science program in Alabama. In fact, the third graders drafted a statute which became Alabama law to name the Red Hill Salamander as the state amphibian. As a result of this work, and the efforts of the teachers, the student scores on the Stanford Achievement Test showed a significant increase. 
   Fairhope Elementary is a wonderful school with a diverse student population. 23 percent of the students are on free or reduced lunch and 18 percent are minority students. Mr. Beasley has created a learning environment that is dedicated to helping each child reach his/her fullest potential. He is in the classroom constantly, assisting teachers, training teachers, and insisting on excellence. His leadership is extraordinary. Being a good teacher has certainly helped him be a great principal. 
   As he told me, ``Math is my love, I don't claim to be an expert, but I love it. If we can't make math real then kids won't learn.'' These are not just words for Mr. Beasley. His intense interest in helping children led him to study how they learn. His experience caused him to write a paper on ``writing math''. Ohio State University wants to publish it. In this technique, Mr. Beasley encourages students to write out in their own words exactly the processes they are going through when they do their math calculations. From this experience, the student comes to understand what they do not know and the teacher is able to help them. It helps them to relieve their anxiety about math and makes them more comfortable with it. Mr. Beasley quotes John Updike as saying, ``Writing helps me clear up my fuzzy thoughts''. He adds, ``Write about math and it becomes clear.'' A principal is a valuable thing indeed, as is an exceptional teacher. This nation needs to venerate them, to lift them up and to celebrate their accomplishments. Hundreds of thousand of them strive daily to help each child learn too often with little recognition. 
   As Mr. Beasley notes, the scripture lists teaching as a ``calling.'' It is good for us to praise and give thanks to those who touched us with their work and those who daily work to prepare the next generation for service. 
   Terry Beasley is a great American with a powerful determination to fulfill his calling--to help make young people better and to help them learn. He is a native of Waynesboro, Mississippi, and his wife, Charlotte, also  an educator at Spanish Fort Middle School in Baldwin County, Alabama, is a native of Millry, AL. Together they represent the best in education in America. 
   I have been honored to know them. I am pleased and honored that Mr. Beasley has been able to teach my children. There are so many others like him. I have been in 20 different schools in Alabama this year and there are a lot of problems. Teachers have shared with me from their heart their frustrations. But we have some great teachers all over America and some great principals. Sometimes I think we don't realize how important a good principal is because without a good principal a school just can't reach its best. 
   In my visit to those 20 schools, they didn't ask for a bunch more Federal programs. We have 700 Federal programs right now. What they have told me, time and again, was that Federal regulations are micromanaging the work they have to do, requiring them to fill out much more paperwork than even their whole school system requires and, in fact, undermining their ability to maintain discipline in the classroom. I hear that time and time again. That is another matter. 
   I simply want to say again how much I appreciate the distinguished group that had the wisdom and insight to select Terry Beasley as the principal of the year because he is indeed special. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank Senator FEINGOLD for his concerns about civil liberties in America. It is important for us to give great attention to these issues. Police need to be constantly reminded of their responsibilities. 
   I was a prosecutor for nearly 18 years full time. I have dealt with police. I remember clearly the policies for years against racial profiling. The law is against that. One of the most famous cases was 25 or 30 years ago, when an immigration officer stopped some individual in a car and arrested him for being an illegal alien. When he asked why he stopped him, he said he had a ``psychic feeling'' that there was something wrong there. 
   The court said no. A psychic feeling is not good enough. A racial profile is not good enough. You have to have an articulable basis to make a stop. 
   But we do not want to suggest, in my view, that this is a routine thing in America. Police officers I know, and the Federal agents I know, are very sensitive about these issues. They have been trained about them. They know precisely what they have to do. It almost takes a law degree to know what to do, but they know precisely how and when they can make stops and when they cannot. I believe consistently they follow those rules. 
   I know Vice Presidential candidate Senator LIEBERMAN, in one of his debates, said that he knew someone who had been stopped, an African American, a Government employee. He described that he was offended by it. But the local police said, when they were asked about it--the local police said he was stopped because the car matched perfectly the description of a stolen car. When they stopped it, they did not even know whether the driver was white or black. They were just doing their job. It was not a racial profiling. 
   So we need not to go too far, suggesting this is too common. I do not believe it is. I think it may happen and it should not happen. It is against the law. It is not proper, and arrests and matters rising from it should not be justified. 
   I appreciate Senator FEINGOLD's interest in making sure the law is properly followed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the consideration of H.R. 2884, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Senators MURKOWSKI and BINGAMAN have an amendment at the desk. I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the amendment be agreed to, the bill be read the third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statement relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Energy Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 3657, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Senator MURKOWSKI has an amendment at the desk. I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the amendment be agreed to. 
   The amendment (No. 4328) was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read the third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Energy Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 4835, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statement relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask the Chair lay before the Senate a message from the House of Representatives on the bill H.R. 150. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Senate concur in the amendment of the House, with further amendment which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 930, H.R. 3023. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the committee amendment be withdrawn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Senator MURKOWSKI has an amendment at the desk. I ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the amendment be agreed to, the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Energy Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 898, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator MURKOWSKI has an amendment at the desk, and I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Foreign Relations Committee be discharged from further consideration of H. Con. Res. 232, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the concurrent resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the concurrent resolution be printed in the RECORD.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 728, S. 2943. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Foreign Relations Committee be discharged from further consideration of S. Res. 375, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to consideration of H. Con. Res. 390, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the concurrent resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of H.R. 4068, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 862, H.R. 2442. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee amendments be agreed to, the bill be read a third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of H.R. 5234, received from the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 587, S. 2406. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the  table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Chair lay before the Senate a message from the House of Representatives on the bill (S. 2812). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate agree to the amendment of the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the Judiciary be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 2961, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 921, H.R. 4320. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 914, H.R. 4110. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 380 submitted by Senator LOTT and Senator DASCHLE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of H. Con. Res. 376, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 860, S. 2915. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the committee amendment, as amended, be agreed to, the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 576, S. 1854. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the committee substitute be agreed to, as amended, the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed at this point in the RECORD.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I now ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it recess until the hour of 4:30 p.m. on Monday, October 23. 
   I further ask unanimous consent that on Monday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then proceed to a period of morning business until 4:45 p.m., with Senators speaking up to 5 minutes each with Senator HARKIN recognized during the morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the majority leader would advise them that the Senate will convene for a brief session on Monday afternoon for scheduled announcements and possible procedural action on the bankruptcy conference report. 
   On Tuesday, the Senate is expected to begin consideration of any available conference reports. Leadership will notify the Senators on Monday if votes will be necessary during Tuesday's session of the Senate. It is hoped the Senate can complete its business prior to the expiration of the current continuing resolution. Therefore, votes are possible on Tuesday and will occur throughout the day on Wednesday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 7:19 p.m., recessed until Monday, October 23, 2000, at 4:30 p.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to share a few remarks about the Agriculture bill. I thank Senator COCHRAN and his committee for their work on a very difficult issue at a very difficult time for agriculture. There are no easy solutions to the problems farmers are facing. We know farmers are in trouble. One experienced farmer who heads the Alabama Farmer's Federation told me that without Federal help, he believes in just the next 2 years, one-third of the farmers in Alabama would have gone out of business. It has been costly, but I believe what we are doing is the right thing to do. 
   Also, before I make those remarks, I would like to say I did return, with quite a number of Senators this afternoon, from the memorial service at Newport News to recognize the sailors who lost their lives in this attack on the Cole. We have to remember the Cole. We have to remember them. For a whole lot of reasons it was a very meaningful experience for me and I believe for their survivors. I was able to meet a number of sailors who had been wounded. I think all of us in this country need to pause, periodically, to remember how much we owe to the men and women in uniform. 
   This year, farmers in my home State have faced the worst drought in over a century. In particular, farmers and cattlemen in the southeast region of the state, have been devastated. This drought has come after two previous years of drought. Scorching temperatures and virtually no rain have made it extremely difficult for these fine men and women to continue to farm. In Headland, AL, for example, only 18 inches of rain has fallen this year. This is a part of the State that normally sees over 45 inches by this time. 
   More rain has come lately but not nearly enough and not soon enough to compensate for the earlier losses. Corn yields are down 40 percent. The peanut crop has had a very bad year, and the cotton crop has been very bad. 
   It has not been a good year at all for Alabama farmers. This drought has been one of the most severe on record. At some point since March 1, all parts of Alabama have been classified ``exceptional drought'' by the U.S. Drought Monitor. This is the most severe drought rating. 
   The entire State has been declared a disaster by the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Department of Agriculture has done some good work in helping to respond to the crisis. 
   However, I continue to hear from farmers at home that they question how long they can actually stay in business if the situation doesn't improve. A combination of bad crop-years and low prices can be devastating. Some livestock producers have liquidated their herds. Nearly all of them had to sell their stock earlier and lighter than normal, costing them money. Over 50 percent of this year's hay harvest has been lost, and this is just in Alabama. There have also been droughts in other States such as Mississippi, Georgia and Texas. 
   The $3.6 billion in emergency disaster aid included in this conference report is needed to assist these families and others who have experienced losses from drought, fire and other natural disasters. 
   I am especially pleased that Senator COCHRAN and the conference committee agreed to retain my amendment in the Senate version of the bill to assist Alabama in its emergency hay and feed operations for livestock producers. The Commissioner of Agriculture and Industries, Mr. Charles Bishop; the Alabama Cattlemen's Association and Dr. Billy Powell, its leader; the Alabama Farmers Federation; and other organizations have worked together to provide assistance to struggling cattlemen throughout the summer. Unfortunately, the funding for this assistance has run out. The State funding has collapsed. 
   The $5 million in this conference agreement will go a long way to help these cattlemen make it through the winter without having to sell off their herds, which undermines their ability to have a productive economic enterprise. 
   I am also pleased that the conference report contains funding for a number of fine agricultural research projects in Alabama and all over the country. These projects keep us on the cutting edge of agriculture, and it is the only way we will be able to compete successfully in the world market. It includes catfish disease research. Catfish is one of the biggest cash crops for agriculture in the State. Peanut allergy research is a critical issue for us. I am particularly pleased the funding for Satsuma orange research was retained in the conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent for 2 additional minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the funding for Satsuma orange frost research will go a long way to nurturing this fledgling industry along the gulf coast. 
   At the beginning of the 20th century, Satsuma orange groves flourished throughout the gulf coast. Indeed, they were running advertisements encouraging people around the country to come down and grow Satsuma oranges. In fact, 18,000 acres of the sweet, easy-to-peel fruit were farmed during the twenties and thirties along the upper gulf coast. However, a period of severe winters around 1940 led to the decline of Satsuma production. 
   Today, fledgling Satsuma groves exist in Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. Research by Auburn University, one of the finest research institutions in the world, is being conducted to determine how to make this fruit more frost resistant. There are some ideas percolating that may actually do that. This funding will give us the opportunity to revitalize this industry. 
   I am certainly pleased with the overall agricultural spending. We have a lot of emergency assistance for farmers this year because it has been a particularly bad year in some areas of the country, including Alabama. 
   Again, I thank Chairman COCHRAN for his leadership. He understands this issue; he understands this Senate. He has wrestled with these issues for years, and his leadership will help this bill pass with overwhelming support. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Fifteen minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the assistant majority leader is becoming the conscience of this Senate. It is a thankless task to say no on bills as popular as the Agriculture bill--something that was important for my State. I voted for it and I respect it. I think it is also important if we are going to have any respect for our ultimate budget requirements, the people in our leadership need to stand up and speak out, and I appreciate him doing so. He provides great leadership for us. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am concerned that we as a Congress have not been as effective in our oversight responsibility as we should. I want to share some remarks on that subject in a minute. The distinguished assistant majority leader made some remarks about our failure to identify, prosecute, and hold to account individuals who have committed terrorist acts against American service men and women and citizens. That is an important issue. In fact, we have not been effective at it. 
   I remember when the attack was made on the Sudan pharmacy, the pill factory there. I remember the attack made on the facility in Afghanistan not long after that. The committee on which I serve had a hearing where the Director of the FBI, Louis Freeh; former Director of the CIA under President Clinton, Mr. Woolsey; and Jean Kirkpatrick discussed that event. 
   Prior to that time, I had publicly stated that I did not believe President Clinton had utilized these attacks to distract attention from the domestic problems he was having at home. People were suggesting it was a ``wag the dog'' syndrome--an attack that may not have been justified but helped distract public attention from his own troubles. I said no about that. But I must admit after having heard at that hearing these distinguished Americans discuss how that attack was conducted that I was very troubled. I really did not believe it made a lot of sense to just lob missiles into a factory and hope that was justified factually; that it was a factory that may have had something to do with it; and, who would be injured. That kind of thing was very troubling, and certainly had no realistic impact or potential to hurt Bin Laden who may have been involved in that. In fact, he is under indictment now for terrorist acts. 
   Then in Afghanistan, we just shot off some missiles. We don't know whether or not anybody was hurt. That is all it was. So we retaliated. We had done something. We didn't really do anything. That is the fact. We really did not do anything. Nobody involved in that terrorist act that we know of to this day has been held to account because of it. 
   We have to be prepared to work hard to identify who was involved in those activities, and to do everything we can to arrest them and bring them into custody, and, if not and if they resist, to be able to take them out wherever they may be. 
   That is just the plain fact of it. Bin Laden, for example, has openly declared war on the United States. The attack on this vessel--the U.S.S. Cole--was more than just a terrorist attack. It was an act of war. We have every right, and we have a duty as any great nation does to defend itself and its ability to send its ships on the open seas, and to enter port in which it should be safe. We have every right, and we have a duty to respond to that. If we don't do so, who will be next? Who else will be hurt? I left the memorial service at Norfolk just today. It was a very moving ceremony with all of those sailors standing on the Eisenhower. When the Chief of Naval Operations for the Atlantic finished his speech, he said, ``Remember the Cole.'' When the ceremony was over, one of those sailors on that great aircraft carrier yelled ``Remember the Cole.'' It is our responsibility to remember those 17 who are no longer with us and the ones who are injured. We cannot allow this kind of activity time and time and time again, as Senator NICKLES said, to be carried out and nothing happen. 
   I am glad he talked about that. We need to do better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I believe it is our responsibility as Members of Congress to do unglamorous work called oversight. It is our duty to make sure our governmental agencies are, on a daily basis, spending money wisely and not ripping off the American taxpayer. I believe that is a constitutional duty. I believe we are legitimately criticized in this body for not being more aggressive about that. I have tried to resolve it. I am going to do better. I am going to take some action with regard to what I consider to be poor expenditures of money. 
   I initiated a project in my office I call ``Integrity Watch.'' We examine suspected cases of waste, fraud, and abuse in the Federal Government. I think that is healthy. 
   I have exposed the enormous costs associated with the building of a new United Nations mission in New York. That building came in at $88 million. It is nothing more than an office space for governmental employees who work at the U.N., and for two-thirds of the year almost half as many people are there. Only half the year will the space be nearly utilized. 
   It came in on a per square foot basis as the most expensive building that this Government has ever built--more expensive than our great Federal courthouses, some of which have been criticized like the one in Boston. It is more expensive per square foot than those great Federal courthouses. 
   Today I alert my colleagues to a problem I have noted. I hope we are not seeing a pattern of abuse of taxpayers. 
   The General Services Administration, the Government's landlord, is responsible for purchasing, leasing, and refurbishing the buildings that house Federal agencies and Departments. My concern is that too often Congress is simply rubber stamping leasing requests of GSA without exercising careful oversight responsibilities. Specifically, I am concerned about the proposed expenditure of Federal funds to lease space for the Department of Transportation and the procedure being used in that process. 
   In 1996, GSA came to Congress to receive authorization to secure a new lease for DOT. The current lease was to expire on March 31 of 2000. The prospectus GSA provided to Congress was very simple. It plainly stated that GSA ``proposes a replacement lease of 1,199,000 to 1,320,000 rentable square feet of space and 145 official inside parking spaces for the Department of Transportation.'' 
   That was basically it. 
   On November 6 of 1997, the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, of which I was a member at that time, approved a resolution authorizing GSA to secure an operating lease for the headquarters. The resolution was just as simple as the prospectus. It was a one-page resolution authorizing GSA to enter into an operating lease not to exceed 20 years for approximately 1.1 million net usable square feet of space plus 145 official parking spaces at an estimated annual cost of $55 million plus escalations. 
   Almost 2 years after GSA was given the go-ahead to procure the lease, the agency issued a 250-page solicitation for offers asking people to make proposals to secure this space for DOT. Buried in this SFO--Solicitation for Offers--are a number of alarming statements used by GSA in making its decision which may have a profound impact on the cost and the quality of the building, and, more importantly, the expense that we as taxpayers will pay over the next few decades. 
   It strikes me that GSA may well be deliberately ignoring their 1997 mandate, or at least violating the spirit and intent of the congressional authorization. One only needs to review the 250-page SFO to determine that GSA has decided unilaterally to go far beyond what they were authorized to lease by Congress. 
   Specifically, the requirement in the SFO that proposals are to provide a level of quality consistent with ``the highest quality commercial office buildings over 250,000 square feet in Washington, DC.'' 
   I don't believe a Federal office building has to be equal to the highest quality private office space in this city. Federal dollars are paying for the building--taxpayer dollars--and that requirement cannot be justified. 
   Additionally, the congressional authorizing resolution said nothing about GSA securing a lease equal to the highest quality commercial building. They weren't given that commission. 
   I am also concerned about what appears to be the lavish excesses included in the performance specifications. Just for example, the SFO explains that the passenger elevators--this is not a ceremonial building; this is an office building--are to be made of ``premium quality natural stone or terrazzo,'' and that the walls in each passenger elevator are to be ``a combination of premium quality architectural wood paneling, premium quality natural stone, and finished metal.'' 
   I think this shows a real sense of disconnect from the American people, even of arrogance. Most families in the United States work hard to achieve the American dream of building and owning a home but can't afford to place ``premium quality architectural wood paneling'' in their home. Why should their hard-earned tax dollars that are extracted from them be spent so that Government workers can ride up and down these elevators with ``premium quality natural stone'' floors? 
   Additionally, I am concerned that other Government agencies will come to expect this same ``highest quality, best-in-class'' office space in Washington, DC, whether in a leased or renovated Government building. This could have a snowballing effect and create a procurement and budgetary drain on the country. 
   I am also disturbed by GSA's clear statement that price and cost to the Government are significantly less important than the scoring on technical factors. 
   In Alabama, families who are building a home first start with a budget. Once they begin to design a home, if they cannot afford a ``premium quality natural stone or terrazzo'' floor for the dining room, they may be forced to settle for a less expensive alternative. For the majority of families in this country, price and cost are the determining factors in all their decisions when they are building a new home. Why should the Government think it should act differently? 
   It is my belief that among the finalists who can clearly and credibly show that they meet the space and program requirements of the SFO, price and cost should clearly be the determining factor ultimately in making the lease award. To select a building on any other basis than best value seems, to me, quite unjustifiable. 
   In the next few weeks, GSA will make their decision on the location of the Department of Transportation headquarters building. I will be sending a letter to Senator BOB SMITH, the outstanding chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. I thank Chairman SMITH for taking a hard look at the U.N. building, too, in his role as the committee chairman. I will ask him and his committee to work with me to look into the procedures and standards that were passed by Congress in 1997 versus the solicitation for offer being used by GSA today for the Department of Transportation building. 
   I am afraid that under the current system, GSA is working with vague guidelines from Congress, very vague guidelines. In fact, their language, as I noted earlier, was ``$55 million plus escalations.'' That is not a crack in the door. That is a wide-open door, big enough to drive a truck through. I think they are using these vague guidelines, and these guidelines allow them to be free to set their own standards, potentially allowing them to commit to a building of unjustifiable expense. 
   I believe this Congress has a responsibility to our constituents to oversee and ensure all Government leases and all Government expenditures across the board, and that they are awarded to provide the Government the best quality. If we refuse to look at this, I believe we will have failed the taxpayers who will be paying for this bill. We will be potentially burdening them with an exorbitant price tag for simple office space beyond reason and justification. 
   I believe if we allow GSA to proceed with their current plans, we will not have followed through on our requirements of oversight to ensure that these moneys for lease space are properly approved. We want good space for the employees at the Department of Transportation. I hear they are happy where  they are. They are not asking to go to a new building or have a new building. We need to be sure that we give them a new 15-year lease, wherever it is, and that it is comparable in price. We ought not to spend a whole bunch of money to get a fancy new building somewhere at much greater expense than what they have if they are happy where they are. This is not a building that is old; it is about 30 years old. We need to look at that. I will be writing the chairman. I think we need to talk more about that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following nomination on today's Executive Calendar: No. 659, John E. McLaughlin, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence. 
   I further ask unanimous consent the nomination be confirmed, the motion to consider be laid upon the table, the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that S. Res. 376, previously agreed to, be modified and star printed with the changes that are at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I further ask unanimous consent that the report to accompany S. 2580 be star printed with the changes that are at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the Environment and Public Works Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 4132, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of H. Con. Res. 404, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 863, S. Res. 343. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to this resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Foreign Relations Committee be discharged from further consideration of S. Con. Res. 146, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consents the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Armed Services Committee be discharged from further consideration of S. Res. 373, and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at a time determined by the majority leader, after consultation with the minority leader, the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 723, S. 2508 and it be considered under the following terms: 30 minutes for debate on the bill equally divided in the usual form; the only amendments in order be a substitute amendment No. 4303, submitted by Senator CAMPBELL. Further, I ask unanimous consent that a Feingold amendment be in order to the substitute relative to non-Indian water users and limited to 30 minutes equally divided in the usual form. 
   I further ask unanimous consent that following the above debate time, the Senate proceed to vote in relation to the Feingold amendment; further, the substitute amendment then be agreed to, as amended, if amended, the bill then be read the third time, and the Senate proceed to a vote on passage of the bill, with no further intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 760, S. 1639. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator FRIST has an amendment at the desk, and I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the committee amendment, as amended, be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Commerce Committee be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 1550 and the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator FRIST has an amendment at the desk, and I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 378, submitted by Senator WARNER for himself and others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will just add that I know how deeply Senator WARNER feels about this. I am very appreciative that he submitted this resolution. Senator WARNER served in both the Marines and the Navy, serving as Secretary of the Navy, and now serves as chairman of the Armed Services Committee. He and a substantial delegation of Senators and Congressmen attended the services today for those sailors we lost on the Cole. 
   We need to remember the Cole, and we need to remember the hundreds of thousands of service men and women who are serving us around the globe who cannot be fully protected where they are. I think this is an important resolution today. It is appropriate that this Senate pauses to remember them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 379, submitted earlier by Senator SNOWE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the Senator from Maine, Ms. SNOWE, chairs the Seapower Subcommittee in the Armed Services Committee, of which I am honored to be a member. I likewise appreciate very much her interest in expressing our sympathy to the families of those sailors who were lost. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it recess until the hour of 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, October 19. I further ask consent that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then proceed to a period of morning business until 12:30, with the time equally divided between the two leaders or their designees, with Senators speaking for up to 5 minutes, with the following exceptions: Senator ASHCROFT for the first 15 minutes; Senator DURBIN or his designee, 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I further ask unanimous consent that the Senate recess from 12:30 until 2:15 to accommodate a party caucus. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, I say on behalf of the majority leader, following the recess on Thursday, the Senate may consider the VA-HUD appropriations conference report, if available; a continuing resolution, if received from the House; or a procedural vote with respect to the bankruptcy reform issue. Therefore, rollcall votes will occur during Thursday's session of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 7:29 p.m., recessed until Thursday, October 19, 2000, at 10:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001017</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise to sent to the desk a bill entitled, ``The Consumer and Employee Arbitration Bill of Rights.'' This bill begins the multi-year legislative process necessary to improve the Federal Arbitration Act so that it will be a cost-effective means of resolving disputes. This bill of rights will provide procedural protections to consumers and employees to ensure that their claims will be resolved under due process of law, in a speedy and cost effective manner. 
   Congress enacted the Federal Arbitration Act in 1925. It has served us as well for three-quarters of a century. Under the Act, if the parties agree to a contract affecting interstate commerce that contains a clause requiring arbitration, the clause will be enforceable in court. In short, the Federal Arbitration Act allows parties to a contract to agree not to take their disputes to court, but to resolve any dispute arising from that contract before a neutral decision-maker, generally selected by a non-profit arbitration organization. The parties can generally present evidence and be represented by counsel. And the decision-makers will apply the relevant state law in resolving the dispute. Arbitration is generally quicker and less expensive than going to court. 
   In recent years, there have been some cases where the arbitration process has not worked well, but thousands of disputes have been fairly and effectively settled by arbitrators. Such a system is even more important because of skyrocketing legal costs where attorneys require large contingent fees. Accordingly, I have opposed piecemeal legislative changes to the act. Instead, I believe the time has come for a comprehensive review of how arbitration works and what we can do to enhance its effectiveness. 
   The approach of reforming arbitration, rather than abandoning the arbitration process provides several benefits. Arbitration is one of the best means of dispute resolution and one that most consumers and employees can afford. Consumers and employees generally cannot afford a team of lawyers to represent them. And their claims are often not big enough so that a lawyer would take the case on a 25 percent or even a 50 percent contingent fee. Thus, the consumer or employee is faced with having to pay a lawyer's hourly rate for his claim. If he can afford to pay the hourly rate, he must decide whether it makes financial sense to pay a lawyer several thousand dollars to litigate a claim in court for a broken television that cost $700 new. If this is what consumers and employees are left with, many will have no choice but to drop their claim. This is not right. It is not fair.  
   This is where arbitration can give the consumer or employee a cost effective forum to assert their claim. Thus, before we make exceptions to the Federal Arbitration Act for some of the most well to do corporations in our society, I think it is our duty to consider how we can improve the system for those less financially able. 
   A letter I recently received from the National Arbitration Forum contained some interesting comments about the importance of arbitration: the ABA has calculated that 100 million Americans are locked out of court by high legal costs, and that most lawyers will not begin a lawsuit worth less than $20,000, while arbitration serves as an accessible forum for dispute resolution; consumer class actions increasingly generate little more than coupons for consumers, while contractual arbitration gives a consumer the ability to get his or her case before a neutral party at a reasonable price and in a reasonable amount of time; a recent Roper Study indicates that 59 percent of Americans would choose arbitration over a lawsuit to resolve a claim for money. 
   Thus, the benefits for customers and employees are readily apparent. Can we improve this system? Yes, but we must take a balanced approach. 
   Further, arbitration promotes the freedom of parties to make contracts. I was recently contacted by Professor Stephen Ware of the Cumberland School of Law, who reminded us that the promotion of contractual freedom regarding arbitration has long been a primary goal of the Federal Arbitration Act. In any contract, the parties agree to all the terms and clauses included in the contract document. This includes the arbitration clause. This is basic contract law, and the basic principle upon which the Federal Arbitration Act has been supported for 75 years. 
   But this is not always the case. In certain situations, consumers or employees are not treated fairly. That is what the Consumer and Employee Arbitration Bill of Rights is designed to correct. 
   The bill will maintain the cost benefits of binding arbitration, but would grant several specific ``due process'' rights to consumers and employees. The bill is based on the consumer and employee due process protocols of the American Arbitration Association and have broad support. The bill provides the following rights: 
   No. 1, notice--Under the bill an arbitration clause, to be enforceable, would have to have a heading in large, bold print, would have to state whether arbitration is binding or optional, identify a source that the consumer or employee could contact for more information, and state that a consumer could opt out to small claims court. 
   This will ensure that consumers who receive credit card notices in the mail will not miss an arbitration clause because it is printed in fine print. Further, it will give consumers and employees a means to obtain more information on how to resolve any disputes. Finally, the clause would explain that if a consumer's claims could otherwise be brought in small claims court, he is free to do so. Small claims court, unlike regular trial court, provides another inexpensive and quick means of dispute resolution. 
   No. 2, independent selection of arbitrators--The bill will grant consumers and employees the right to have potential arbitrators disclose relevant information concerning their business ties and employment. All parties to the arbitration will have an equal voice in selecting a neutral arbitrator. This ensures that the large company who sold a consumer a product will not select the arbitrator itself, because the consumer or the employee with a grievance will have the right to nominate potential arbitrators too. As a result, the final arbitrator selected will have to have the explicit approval of both parties to the dispute. This means the arbitrator will be a neutral party with no allegiance to either the seller or the consumer. 
   No. 3, choice of law--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to have the arbitrator governed by the substantive law that would apply under conflicts of laws principles applicable in the forum in which the consumer resided at the time the contract was entered into. This means that the substantive contract law that would apply in a court where the consumer or employee resides at the time of making the contract will apply in the arbitration. Thus, in a dispute arising from the purchase of a product by an Alabama consumer from an Illinois company, a court would have to determine whether Alabama or Illinois law applied by looking to the language of the contract and to the place the contract was entered into. The bill ensures that an arbitrator will use the same conflict of laws principles that a court would in determining whether Alabama or Illinois law will govern the arbitration proceedings. 
   No. 4, representation--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to be represented by counsel at his own expense. Thus, if the claim involves complicated legal issues, the consumer or employee is free to have his lawyer represent him in the arbitration. Such representation should be substantially less expensive than a trial in court because of the more abbreviated and expedited process of arbitration. 
   No. 5, hearing--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to a fair hearing in a forum that is reasonably convenient to the consumer or 
   employee. This would prevent a large company from requiring a consumer or employee to travel across the country to arbitrate his claim and to expend more in travel costs than his claim may be worth. 
   No. 6, evidence--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to conduct discovery and to present evidence. This ensures that the arbitrator will have all the facts before him prior to making a decision. 
   No. 7, cross examination--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to cross-examine witnesses presented by the other party at the hearing. This allows a party to test the statements of the other party's witnesses and be sure that the evidence before the arbitrator is correct. 
   No. 8, record--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to hire a stenographer or tape record the hearing to produce a record. This right is key to proving later that the arbitration proceeding was fair. 
   No. 9, timely resolution--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to have an arbitration proceeding to be completed promptly so that they do not have to wait for a year or more to have their claim resolved. Under the bill a defendant must file an answer within 30 days of the filing of the complaint. The arbitrator has 90 days after the answer to hold a hearing. The arbitrator must render a final decision within 30 days after the hearing. Extensions are available in extraordinary circumstances. 
   No. 10, written decision--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to a written decision by the arbitrator explaining the resolution of the case and his reasons therefor. If the consumer or employee takes a claim to arbitration, he deserves to have an explanation of why he won or lost. 
   No. 11, expenses--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to have an arbitrator provide for reimbursement of arbitration fees in the interests of justice and the reduction, deferral, or waiver of arbitration fees in cases of extreme hardship. It does little good to take a claim to arbitration if the consumer or employee cannot even afford the arbitration fee. This provision ensures that the arbitrator can waive or reduce the fee or make the company reimburse the consumer or employee for a fee if the interests of justice so require. 
   No. 12, small claims opt out--The bill grants consumers and employees the right to opt out of arbitration into small claims court if that court has jurisdiction over the claim and the claim does not exceed $50,000. 
   The bill also provides an effective mechanism for consumers and employees to enforce these rights. At any time, if a consumer or employee believes that the other party violated his rights, he may ask and the arbitrator may award a penalty up to the amount of the claim plus attorneys fees. For example, if the company fails to provide discovery to the employee, the employee can make a motion for fees. The amount of fee award is limited, as it is in court, to the amount of cost incurred by the employee in trying to obtain the information from the company. This principle is taken from Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37. 
   After the decision, if the losing party believes that the rights granted to him  by the Act have been violated, he may file a petition with the Federal district court. If the court finds by clear and convincing evidence that his rights were violated, it may order a new arbitrator appointed. Thus, if a consumer or employee has an arbitrator that is unfair and this causes him to lose the case, the consumer or employee can obtain another arbitrator. 
   Mr. President, this bill is the first step to creating a constructive dialog on arbitration reform. This bill of rights will ensure that those who can least afford to go to court can go to a less expensive arbitrator and be treated fairly. It will ensure that every arbitration carried out under the Federal Arbitration Act is completed fairly, promptly, and economically. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that consumers and employees who agree in a contract to arbitrate their claims will be afforded due process of law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If that is appropriate, I will be honored to follow the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand Senator ROBERTS was seeking to speak. Perhaps with that exception? The two of you could talk about that, perhaps. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is fine. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I join with my colleagues in expressing my support for the Defense authorization bill. I salute Senator WARNER and Senator LEVIN, the ranking member, for the work they have given in creating a bill that strengthens our Nation's defenses and allows us to be more efficient and innovative as we move forward into the future. I wish we could have done more, but irregardless, we will in the future. I must give Senator WARNER credit. Under his leadership, for the last 2 years, we have produced a defense budget with real increases in defense spending. A defense spending increase that has outpaced the inflation rate. 
   For 15 consecutive years, we had a net reduction in the defense budget. As a result, we have some real problems today, as the Joint Chiefs of Staff told us 2 weeks ago in a very important Armed Services Committee hearing. We need to focus on the It is also important for us, all of us who care about the men and women in uniform, to pause and remember the men and women of this Nation who risk their lives daily, including the five who were killed in a dastardly attack by terrorists in the Middle East today. Unfortunately, this is the kind of world we live in. I wish it weren't so.  
   This is a $310 billion bill. In fact, it is $4 billion above what the President requested. It is above what the Joint Chiefs, who are appointed by the President, said they needed to maintain an adequate force, although they told us after the budget had been written they really needed a lot more over a sustained period of time. 
   Two weeks ago, in the Armed Services Committee, which I am honored to be a member of, we had the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Shelton, and the Chiefs for each of the service branches--Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines. They were asked by Senator WARNER: Tell us the truth, what is the situation in with the military? 
   Each one of these men were appointees of this administration, but under oath they came forward and told the truth. That is, they testified that they have thankfully restored and maintained the readiness of two Army divisions that had fallen to the lowest readiness rating possible last fall. In other words, the Chiefs in the past were forced to take resources from other areas to maintain readiness. I believe Senator ROBERTS, who will speak in a minute, used the phrase, ``The point of the spear then is OK, but it is the shaft that is wrong.'' That is what they agreed to. At least three of the five used the phrase, ``We are mortgaging our future.'' 
   What did they mean by that? They meant that this Nation has been robbing research and development, recapitalization, new equipment, and the kinds of things we need to maintain the greatest military in the world. But to maintain that, you have to continue to invest in those requirements. We are not doing that. The Chiefs stated it plain and simple, and I emplore anybody who doubts it to read the transcript of that hearing. They agreed with the phrase that one Senator used, quoting the Clinton Assistant Secretary of Defense, that the defense budget is in a death spiral. What he meant by that was that when you spend more and more money to try to maintain equipment that is worn out, you are pouring money down a bottomless pit. What we should have done, and what we have not done these past 8 years when we have had good economic times, is increase this defense budget. We could have recapitalized and replaced wornout equipment. But we haven't been doing that. As a result, we will face a future readiness crisis. 
   The Secretary of Defense, Bill Cohen, testified earlier this year that this Nation has been living off Ronald Reagan's military buildup of the 1980s. He said we are going to be facing a crisis in the years to come. That is testimony by the Secretary of 
   Defense and this administration has not listened to that warning. They are going to let this burden fall on the American people in the immediate future. The Secretary of Defense says it, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff says that, and the chairman of our committee who has been involved in these issues for so many years says that. It has been complicated, as they testified, with our excessive and unusually high number of deployments of our men and women around the world. This wears out equipment, it drains additional resources, and it tires our men and women in uniform. In addition, it separates them from their families for extraordinary periods of time. 
   We have a real problem because we have a peace dividend. Oh, they say, President Bush cut the Defense Department when he was in there. Well, of course, he did. We had a legitimate peace dividend. The Berlin wall fell. We had a tremendous change as a result of the will of President Reagan and President Bush to maintain an unwavering stand against the Soviet Union. Consequently, we were able to save a lot of money. 
   So, yes, he was cutting; yes, we wanted to reduce manpower and reduce any costs we could, and use those savings to strengthen this country. But he didn't pretend to have it go on forever. 
   So that is where we are. I have to say that we have not yet faced up to the challenges of our future. I am reminded by the gulf war and our soldiers taking on the Iraqis. Our fighting men and women did an outstanding job. At that time, I heard the Senator from Minnesota, Mr. WELLSTONE, say we needed more preschool teachers and we needed more guidance counselors, and anything else you can think of that he would spend money on, but when we committed those men and women in the desert, what did they use? They used the finest equipment the world had ever seen. We were able to put missiles in the windows of buildings and our tanks were able to destroy the enemy's before they new it. 
   Our forces were able to defeat the enemy and devastate them with minimum loss of life on our side. That is what we want to do. We do not want to get into a war in which this Nation is not able to carry out its just national interests and suffer a huge loss of life. We want to be able to carry out our just national interests effectively. We do not want to over extend ourselves and become engaged in conflicts all over the world. But we need to be ready to execute to defend our legitimate national interests. We can't do that if we don't spend some money on it. 
   We are heading to a time where we can't live off the Reagan buildup anymore. We are going to be at a time where we will have to do something about it. We will be at a time when we need to improve our cruise missiles and our smart bombs and during the gulf war, we had superiority in the Middle East. We avoid wars by being strong. 
   Senator STEVENS, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, understood these issues and fought for them. When the conflict occurred, we prevailed at minimum loss of life to American citizens. 
   I agree with Senator WARNER. This bill does not need to be jeopardized by adding such measures as hate crimes legislation, that should have come out of Judiciary on a law enforcement bill, rather than on a Defense bill. This type of ploy only adds to the complication on these matters. 
   I think we are making a solid step forward. It would have been better if the Commander in Chief had told us we needed more money and challenged us to find more. It is hard for Congress to find more money when the President says, as Commander in Chief, he doesn't need it. Nevertheless, we spent $4 billion more than he asked for, which is hard to do. But the core function of Government ultimately is to defend our national sovereignty. We have a leadership role in this world, whether we want to have it or not. We have the ability to lead this world into the greatest century in the history of mankind. We can avoid wars if we remain strong. If we have competent leadership, we can maintain peace. We need a steady, mature funding of defense so that we are always above and ahead of our competitors. We do not want to go into a war on a level playing field. If we do have to go to war, we must have the resources available to prevail at a minimum loss of life. 
   All of this could create a more stable world order, and promote peace. Goodness knows, the events in the last few days are enough to make an impact and to see what happens in Belgrade, to see what happens in the Middle East, to see what happens now with an attack on our warship. Doesn't that tell us we live in a very dangerous world? The history of the world hasn't changed. There will always be struggles, fights, and wars, it seems. But if we are prepared, if we lead, and if we have a strong military that allows us to speak softly but carry a big stick, we can do great things. We can fulfill our destiny at this point in time; that is, to lead this world into a peaceful future. 
   I will just say this: We need to maintain the ability to act unilaterally when we need to. This Nation cannot allow some multinational group to decide for us how to use the power that we have. Of course we want the support and friendship of every nation in the world, but we don't need to be in a position where we have to have NATO votes to tell us whether or not we can deploy our forces. We don't need to have the U.N. voting with a single veto in the security council stopping us from deploying either. Would that be wiser than the leadership within the United States? Not at this point in time. I believe we can help the world. We need to maintain our independence. We need to maintain a strong national defense. 
   If I haven't used my time, I will yield it back and thank the chairman for giving me this opportunity. 
   Once again, I thank Senator WARNER and Senator LEVIN for their leadership  and bringing a bill that I believe will help preserve this Nation's strength in the future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the chairman. I am honored to serve with him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today in tribute to the men and women who participated in a little known covert operation in World War II--Operation Ivory Soap. During World War II, ``island hopping'' was a critical element in the U.S. Pacific strategy. The idea was to capture Japanese held islands of tactical or strategic importance and by-pass any far-flung or inconsequential bases. Once an island was taken it was used as a forward airfield for aircraft returning from long-range missions where they were repaired, rearmed, and made ready for the next vital mission. 
   General Henry H. ``Hap'' Arnold, Commander of the Army Air Forces, recognized the need for forward-based, mobile air depots to support American bombers and fighters in the Pacific war. General Arnold and a panel of military officers determined the need for converting naval repair ships into hybrid aircraft depot ships. Eventually, six 440-foot-long Liberty ships and 18 smaller 180-foot-long auxiliary vessels would be modified into Aircraft Repair Units, carrying 344 men, and Aircraft Maintenance Units, manned by 48 troops. Everything from the smallest aircraft parts to complete fighter wings were carried on these ships. The repair and maintenance facilities were manned 24-hours a day and the Liberty ships included platforms to land the ``new'' helicopter for quick ship-to-shore repair transport. 
   The Army Air Force crews that manned these ships had to be trained to understand the nautical aspect of life at sea. Colonel Matthew Thompson of the Army Air Force was given the mission to turn airmen into seamen. Called back from Anzio in Italy, the Colonel had less than two weeks to organize the training program. 
   The Grand Hotel in Point Clear, AL, was the focal point for ``Operation Ivory Soap'' training. Colonel Thompson contacted the then owner, Mr. Strat White-Spunner, regarding the use of the hotel as his base of operations where he intended to instill basic seamanship, marine and aquatic training in the Army officers and men of the aircraft repair and maintenance units. As a donation to the war effort, Mr. Roberts turned the Grand Hotel and its facilities over to the US Army Air Force to be used as its Maritime Training School. Operation Ivory Soap training began on July 10, 1944. 
   Using the Grand Hotel, officers and men moved in and began living in ``Navy style.'' All personnel referred to the floors as decks, kept time by a ship's bell and indulged in the use of tobacco only when the ``smoking lamp'' was lit. The courses included swimming, special calisthenics, marching, drill, navigation, ship identification, signaling, cargo handling, ship orientation, sail making, amphibious operations, and more. Two men from each ship were also trained to be underwater divers. During a five month period, the school turned out 5,000 highly-trained Air Force seamen. When they and their ships went to war, so did Colonel Thompson. The men of the operation participated in the landings in the Philippines, Guam, Tinian, Saipan, Iwo Jima, and Okinawa. Fighter aircraft and B-29s taking off from these bases flew continuous missions over Japan. Many lives, as well as aircraft, were saved because of the men of the aircraft repair and maintenance units. 
   Perhaps the greatest tribute I can make to the exploits of these sea-going airmen is to paraphrase the Merchant Marines who worked with them and who praised them as ``equal to any sea-going combatants they had ever served with.'' This is a testament to their skill and professionalism and the ability of this nation to adjust its resources to defeat the enemy. The Grand Hotel still stands elegantly on the banks of the Mobile Bay. A hotel whose rich southern history embodies the best traditions of this country.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I object. 
   Will the Senator from Arizona yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I want to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Five minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I know the Senator from Arizona cares deeply about his legislation. He cares deeply about every legislative piece he pushes. I have some important legislation pending, too, and I haven't had time to debate them. 
   The Paul Coverdell Criminal Laboratory for Forensic bill will probably save more lives than this bill. 
   However, I think his request is not unreasonable. I do believe the bill has problems. As a person who prosecuted for over 15 years, I do not believe in a continual blurring of the lines between what is criminal liability and civil liability. 
   We are talking about making crimes out of defective building of an automobile. I think we have to be careful about that. It has not gone through the Judiciary Committee. I have not had a chance to see it and I was very concerned about it. I indicated my concern to others. 
   As I have been briefed on this just 5 minutes ago, by my staff--they provided a memorandum which I have not had a chance to even read--I was prepared to go forward with the Senator's request and not object. However, I find that several people expected that I would be objecting who also wanted to object, and I felt I was obligated, due to that miscommunication, to file an objection. 
   Two hours from now I will not object if no one else does. I am prepared to debate these problems and see if we can cure these problems, but I do not feel it would be a collegial thing for me to do, when apparently it was thought that I would object, so that is why I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is all right with me. I respect that. Senator BRYAN will be the last. I defer to him. 
   Will the Senator restate the agreement? The Senator from New Mexico has 20 minutes, Senator BRYAN has 10 minutes, and I have 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Nevada for sharing those serious concerns. It was not long ago that a group of us wrote the major department stores in the country asking them not to sell this violent material to minors, and they responded as good corporate citizens. 
   They said: We have a constitutional right to sell it, but we are not going to do it. Either we are not going to sell it at all, or we are going to make sure children produce an ID so we know they are old enough to buy the material. I thought that was a good corporate response. 
   Yes, the NBA may not legally be able to stop this stuff, but they ought to express their concern about it. The Senator makes a valid point, and I salute him for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to bring attention to a problem that unfortunately goes largely unnoticed except by those who are directly affected. Livestock and food animal producers, pet owners, zoo and wildlife biologists, and animals themselves are facing a severe shortage of approved animal drugs for minor species. 
   Minor species include thousands of animal species, including all fish, birds, and sheep. By definition, they are any animals other than cattle, horses, chickens, swine, turkeys, dogs and cats, the most common animals. There are millions of those animals. A similar shortage of drugs and medicines for major animal species exists for diseases which occur infrequently or which occur in limited geographic areas. Due to the lack of availability for these minor-use drugs, millions of animals go untreated or treatment is delayed. Unnecessary animal physical and human emotional suffering results, and human health may be threatened as well. 
   Without access to these necessary minor-use drugs, farmers and ranchers will also suffer. An unhealthy animal left untreated can spread disease throughout an entire stock. This causes severe economic hardship to struggling ranchers and farmers. 
   For example, sheep ranchers lost nearly $45 million worth of livestock alone in 1999. The sheep industry estimates that if it had access to effective and necessary drugs, growers' reproduction costs for their animals could be cut by up to 15 percent. In addition, feedlot deaths from disease would be reduced by 1 to 2 percent, adding approximately $8 million to the revenue of the industry. 
   The catfish industry is the No. 2 agriculture industry in Alabama. Though it is not the State's only aquacultural commodity, catfish is by far its largest. The catfish industry generates enormous economic opportunity in the State, particularly in west Alabama, one of the poorest regions of the State and where I grew up. 
   The catfish industry estimates its losses at $60 million a year, attributable to diseases for which drugs are not available. Indeed, it is not uncommon for a catfish producer to lose half his stock in a pond due to disease. The U.S. aquaculture industry overall, including food fish and ornamental fish, produces and raises over 800 different species. Unfortunately, this industry has only five drugs that are approved for treating these diseases. This results in tremendous economic hardship and suffering. 
   Because of limited market opportunity, low profit margins, and the enormous capital investment required, it is seldom economically feasible for drug manufacturers to pursue research  and development and then seek approval of it by FDA for drugs used in treating these minor species and for infrequent conditions and diseases in all animals. As a result, a group of people have come together, an effective professional coalition, to deal with this problem. 
   I, along with Senator BINGAMAN from New Mexico, Senator ALLARD, Senator CRAPO, Senator LINCOLN, and Senator JOHNSON resolve to improve this situation by introducing the Minor Animal Species Health and Welfare Act of 2000. This legislation will allow animal drug manufacturers the opportunity to develop and obtain approval for minor-use drugs which are vitally needed by a wide variety of animal industries. 
   Our legislation incorporates the major proposals of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Veterinary Medicine to increase the availability of drugs for minor animal species and rare diseases in all animals. It actually creates incentives for animal drug manufacturers to invest in product development and obtain FDA marketing approvals. 
   This legislation creates a program very similar to the very successful human orphan drug program that has dramatically 
   increased the availability of drugs to treat rare human diseases over the past 20 years. Besides providing benefits to livestock producers and animal owners, this measure will develop incentives and sanctioning programs for the pharmaceutical industry, while maintaining and ensuring public health. 
   The Minor Animal Species Health and Welfare Act will not alter FDA drug approval responsibilities that ensure the safety of animal drugs to the public. The FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine currently evaluates new animal drug products prior to approval and use. This rigorous testing and review process provides consumers with the confidence that animal drugs are safe for animals and consumers of products derived from treated animals. 
   Current FDA requirements include guidelines to prevent harmful residues and evaluations to examine the potential for the selection of resistant pathogens. Any food animal medicine or drug considered for approval under this bill would be subject to these same assessments. 
   The Minor Animal Species Health and Welfare Act is supported by 25 organizations, including the American Farm Bureau Federation, the American Health Institute, the American Veterinary Medical Association, and the National Aquaculture Association. It is vital legislation. 
   This act will reduce the economic risks and hardship which fall upon ranchers and farmers as a result of diseases. It will benefit pets and their owners and benefit various endangered species of aquatic animals. The act will also promote the health of all animal species while protecting human health and will alleviate unnecessary animal suffering. 
   This is commonsense legislation which will benefit millions of American pet owners, farmers, and ranchers. It is the result of a tremendous cooperative effort by virtually every entity concerned with this problem. They have worked with the Food and Drug Administration and continue to work with the FDA on this bill. 
   I believe we are on the verge of taking a big step to facilitate the introduction of more drugs that help treat animals in our country. I thank the people who have all worked to make this a reality. I particularly thank Mary Alice Tyson on my staff who has worked so hard on this project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have been fascinated and informed by the colloquy that has been ongoing between the Senator from Kansas and the Senator from Georgia. I have been honored to serve on the Armed Services Committee with the two of them. I know they take these issues seriously, and it is, indeed, appropriate we begin to think through clearly what the role of the United States is and what the role of Congress is in establishing U.S. policy. 
   I thank them for those observations. They are very valuable. I agree with them that we need to involve the American people in this. The great American experiment that has guided us so far has allowed the people to rule. We do not need to do it under the table without full and open debate. 
   I strongly believe we must not as a nation abdicate our ability to act unilaterally when our national interest is at stake, or else why have we invested so greatly to establish this magnificent military? We cannot rely on a majority vote of the U.N. We cannot rely on the fact that we may override or avoid a veto in the Security Council. We have to be prepared to take care of our own interests. I thank my colleagues for the dialog. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, energy prices are going up; gasoline prices are up. I doubt there are many families who do not spend $60 a month on gasoline. Those who commute, those who have children with vehicles, a husband and wife working may have two or three vehicles per family and not be wealthy. They may be paying $100 a month or more for gasoline. If they were paying $60 a month for gasoline 18 months ago, they are now paying over $90 a month. If they were paying $100 a month last year, they are probably paying over $150 a month this year. 
   That is $50 a month or $30 a month, perhaps more in some families, withdrawn from the usable income of that family, money with which they no longer can buy shoes, a new set of tires for their car, to go on a vacation with their children, take the kids to a ball game, buy shoes for them to play soccer or basketball, baseball, or volley ball. That is $50 a month extra of aftertax money that American citizens had 15, 18 months ago and no longer have today. That is because the price of energy has gone up. 
   In addition, businesses are facing those same increases. I traveled a couple of months ago with a full-time truck driver and his wife. I traveled from north of Birmingham to Clanton to Montgomery and discussed with them the problems they are facing. They are paying up to $800 to $1,000 a month extra to operate their truck. They try to pass it on, which increases the costs down the road, but they are not able to pass it all on and it is reducing their standard of living. They have, in fact, less money with which to go to the store and buy products. 
   What does that ultimately mean? It means there are going to be fewer widgets bought, there are going to be fewer shoes 
   bought, there are going to be fewer new cars bought, fewer new houses bought and many other things we would like to purchase. We will not be able to purchase those items because OPEC, through its price-gouging cartel, has fixed the oil and gas prices and driven them up to an extraordinary degree. As a result, it is hurting us. We know this. We know the economy appears to have some slowing. We know that profit margins across the board have been shrinking significantly, and we know that higher energy costs are a big reason for that. 
   I say that because we are talking about some very big issues. If you do not have money to purchase, let's say you purchase 8 things this month instead of what you would normally purchase, 10, there is somebody who would have made those other 2 items, somebody who would have sold those other 2 items; they may not be able to continue to do that. What does that do to  the producing business? It puts stress on them. It can cool off this robust economy with which we have been blessed for quite a number of years. 
   Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the U.N., wrote an editorial recently which I was pleased to read. He pointed out how it hurts poor nations more than wealthy nations, but it hurts wealthy nations, too. Wealthy nations are hurt when poor nations do not have money to buy products from us. We sell all over the world. Whatever cools off the entire world economy cools off the American economy and jeopardizes jobs. 
   What caused us to come to this point? I say with confidence that it is the Clinton-Gore policies, primarily Vice President AL GORE's energy policies, that have been involved here. The simple fact is that those policies are driven by and motivated at the deepest level by his adoption of a radical, no-growth agenda that is playing in his book. He set it out some years ago. People are astounded when they read that book because he is deeply revealing of a philosophy that we ought to reduce spending on energy and that will somehow drive up costs and we will use less oil, less gas, we will ride bicycles and use solar cells, and that is how we are going to meet our national energy policy. 
   The trouble is that solar cells cost 4, 5, 10 times as much as fossil fuels do to produce energy. Who is going to pay for that? Working Americans are going to pay for that while some elite people think it is a cool idea and for which they are not paying the price. They can afford to pay it perhaps. We are into that mood now. This radical agenda is demonstrated by the policies that have been carried out systematically since this administration took office. 
   It has been steady, and it has been regular. They have not said our policy is to raise prices. They are too clever for that. They are not going to allow that spin to get about. What have they done against the consistent opposition of Members in this body who have warned over and over that reducing production of American fuels was going to lead us to a crisis? What have they done? They have opposed drilling in the ANWR region of Alaska which has huge reserves equal to 30 years of the production in Saudi Arabia. This one little area amounts to the size of Dulles Airport. It is a very small area with huge reserves. They vetoed legislation that would have allowed us to produce oil and gas to help meet our needs. Over vigorous debate in this Senate and a strong majority vote, it was vetoed by the Clinton-Gore administration. 
   What else? They steadfastly oppose nuclear power. France has gone from 60 percent of their power nuclear to 80 percent. Industrialized nations realize it is the cleanest, safest of all sources of energy with unlimited capacity to produce electricity, with no air pollution--virtually no air pollution, and only a small amount of waste that we can easily store in the Nevada desert. 
   Oh, no, President Clinton and Vice President GORE vetoed the ability for us to store that waste in the Nevada desert, therefore, helping shut down our nuclear energy. We have not brought on a nuclear plant in over 20 years in this country. 
   We are denying ourselves that capacity to produce energy. There are huge reserves of natural gas in the Rocky Mountain areas. Natural gas is the cleanest burning of all our fossil fuels. All our electric-generating plants today are natural gas plants. We are hitting a crisis in the production of natural gas. They refuse to allow those Federal lands in the Rocky Mountain areas, almost all of it owned by the Federal Government, to produce natural gas, which isn't a dangerous fuel to produce. It doesn't pour oil all out on the ground; it is an evaporative gas. It is safe to produce. Certainly we could do that. 
   They are opposed to drilling offshore. In fact, Vice President GORE, during his campaigning in New Hampshire, promised not only to not approve any additional offshore drilling of natural gas but to consider rolling back existing leases that have already been issued. 
   How are we going to meet our energy needs for natural gas if we cannot produce it? There are many other areas where, through regulation, we basically shut off coal as a viable option for expanding our energy needs. In fact, even though we are much more efficient than we have ever been with electric energy, we need more. The projections are that we will have a substantial increase in demand even though we are improving our efficiency steadily. So that is the problem we are facing. 
   The problem is that when OPEC realized our demand was increasing, and the world demand was increasing, and our own domestic production was decreasing 14 percent, while demand was going up 18 to 20 percent, they were able to reduce production, force the price up to exorbitant levels, and make themselves rich. In fact, it was a political decision by governmental leaders to force up the price. It was not even a free market decision. It was a political decision by the leaders of these oil-producing nations because of our failure to produce energy and because we have become dependent on their oil. So they have been able to demand what they want to in price. Our politicians lost to their politicians. Their politicians beat our politicians. 
   And who is paying the price? The American citizen, when he goes to the gas pump, when he buys his heating oil, when he goes and buys a product. It is more expensive today to buy that product than it was before because of increased gasoline prices in the whole production system. That is what has happened. We have been taken to the cleaners. To me it is as if we put a tax on the gasoline, but instead of taxing gasoline 50, 60 cents a gallon extra where the revenue comes to Washington so it at least can be spent in the United States, it is, in effect, a 50-, 60-cent tax that goes to Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, and the Middle East. The OPEC cartel gets our tax. They are taxing our wealth and sending it abroad. 
   This has the capacity to kill the economic growth this Nation has been experiencing. It has the capacity to drain our wealth to the degree that this economy could slow down. It could even go into recession because we have done nothing to deal with it. We have done nothing. The only thing, in the long run, that we can do is to make sure we produce what we have. 
   We have virtually unlimited reserves of natural gas and oil in the United States--certainly for decades to come. There are myths that we do not have enough. We have large reserves. We should have been producing those more effectively. But the policies of this administration have been to reduce our production. 
   And as night follows day, the price is going to go up. It threatens not only the pocketbook of a mother who is trying to now get by--she was paying $100 a month for the family's gasoline; now she is paying $150 a month for the family's gasoline. She cannot buy things at the store she used to buy. And the producers of those products are now going to have to lay off workers because people are not buying those products at the rate they were previously buying them. 
   This is not an itty-bitty issue. This is a tremendous issue for our country. I hope it will be discussed tonight in the debate. I hope it will be made a part of this campaign. I believe, with an absolute conviction, that if we allow these international greedy producing nations to jerk us around, to take money from the average mother and father and working American when they go to the gas pump, having their money sent to those nations, they can hurt us badly. It hurts a lot of people. 
   I pumped gas a few months ago and washed people's windshields. I talked to them about the costs they were facing. I talked to a young lady in her early twenties. She was going to college 3 days a week. The college she attended was 30 miles up the road. She talked about how much her gas bill was. She was trying to save money for tuition. Her car was not a new car. She said she would like to have a new car, but she could not afford it. That extra cost was coming out of her pocket. 
   This is a real issue. It hurts our families. They have less money in their pocket and in the family budget because it has to be spent on gasoline. It is hurting businesses. Their profits are down. Home building is down. 
   What will happen in the future? I don't know. But if we do not get in this ballgame, if we do not challenge OPEC and figure out a way to break that cartel, and if we do not increase our own production of energy, we will have  what we have had numerous times before; and that is, a recession driven by increased energy costs. What a tragedy that will be. It should not happen. 
   Our projections are and our needs as a nation are to continue this prosperity, to continue the surplus we have been able to generate in this Government, and to pay down our debt and to be able to do some things we wish we could have done before. This is a glorious time for us. 
   I believe we have to take strong action. I have been frustrated that this administration remains steadfast in blocking, time and again, any step to increase our production of energy. And that has no more consequence but one: When you reduce production, it will drive up costs. 
   I thank the Chair and, again, express my appreciation for his fine remarks on national defense. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield for a comment on his previous remarks? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank Senator GRASSLEY for speaking forthrightly and with integrity. He chairs our drug caucus in the Senate. He personally travels his State and has led efforts against methamphetamines, Ecstacy, and other drugs. He understands those issues clearly. 
   He is correct; there is too much spin. These drugs do not justify the positive spin being put on them. During the administrations of Presidents Bush and Reagan, I served as a Federal prosecutor. According to the University of Michigan Authoritative Study of Drug Use Among High School Students, drug use fell every single year for 12 consecutive years; it jumped after this administration took office. They have, in fact, made a number of mistakes that have undermined the progress made. 
   I appreciate serving with Senator GRASSLEY on the drug caucus and in the Judiciary Committee where we have discussed these issues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I express my appreciation to Senator GRASSLEY for his wise remarks about our energy policy. Certainly natural gas is the cleanest burning of our fossil fuels. We will need it more and more because every electric powerplant that is being built is a natural gas plant. The Senator makes an outstanding and valuable point that we have to do a better job of producing more. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am concerned that we as a Congress have not been effective enough in oversight; that is, looking at the Federal agencies and Departments of this Government to make sure they are operating effectively. 
   We ooh and ah and make complaints and express concern, but we do not often follow through. I know fundamentally it is the responsibility of the administration to run the executive branch, but Congress does fund that branch and has every right to insist that branch does its duty effectively, expeditiously, and economically with minimum waste, fraud, and abuse. 
   I had the pleasure about a year ago to have a conversation with a wonderful lady, Melanie DeMayo, who used to work with Senator Proxmire and was involved in his ``Golden Fleece Award'' presentations. She convinced me I could play a role in helping to make sure, when a dollar is extracted from a hard-working American citizen and is brought to this Senate, this Government, to be spent, that it is spent wisely and not wasted or abused or ineffectively utilized to carry out whatever worthwhile program was intended. I appreciate her insight and help in thinking this through. 
   I have developed what I call Integrity Watch. I spent a number of years as a Federal prosecutor. I believe we can do a better job of maintaining integrity in this Government. When we are spending $1.7 trillion a year, it is incumbent upon us to make sure there is oversight over these programs. 
   I have come to realize that we have a very large student loan program, and there are some problems with it. Today I am offering legislation to create a 12-month fraud control pilot program to reduce the incidence of fraud in the Federal Family Education Loan Program and other programs under title IV. 
   In recent years, there have been a number of cases of so-called students falsely claiming they are attending foreign schools, directing that their student loan checks be paid directly to them and not to the school, and then taking the money and spending it on themselves and not attending the foreign school. This fraud has been documented with many examples listed in a 1997 Department of Education inspector general's report. 
   In addition, the report contains recommendations on tightening controls for the program. Too often these reports are dry, detailed, and complicated. Nobody in this body even reads them, much less acts on them. Certainly, I doubt the President, who says he wants to increase foreign student loans, has read the report. We certainly have not seen any request from the administration to improve this. I believe we can and should do it in Congress. 
   It is time, I believe, for this Congress to close the loopholes which allow these phantom students to defraud the Government. 
   On April 19, 2000, President Clinton and Secretary of Education Riley declared that international education is a priority with them. They want to encourage more students to study abroad. In fact, the President issued a memorandum to the heads of executive departments and agencies stating that the United States is committed to promoting study abroad by U.S. students. He stated:  
   The Secretaries of State and Education shall support the efforts of schools and colleges to improve access to high-quality international educational experiences by increasing the number and diversity of students who study and intern abroad, encouraging students and institutions to choose nontraditional study-abroad locations, and helping under-represented United States institutions offer and promote study-abroad opportunities for their students.  
   Study abroad can be a wonderful experience for a student, and I do not oppose some form of student loan aid to students who want to take advantage of that. It can be an extraordinarily enriching experience. We do need to ensure that the program involves study and not a European vacation at the expense of hard-working American 
   taxpayers for whom a visit to the ball park is often beyond their budget. 
   This new initiative by the administration will increase the risk of fraud unless we institute sound controls immediately. I am not referring to U.S. universities that have foreign programs or cooperative programs with foreign universities. I am talking about mainly the unsupervised foreign-based  institutions. Some of these institutions have already been criticized by General Accounting Office studies. Often these marginal schools are the very schools the so-called students use in their fraud scam. Their fraud is committed when they state they are registering in these schools and then simply pocket the money with no one the wiser. 
   Since 1995, there have been 25 felony convictions of students who fraudulently claimed they were attending a foreign school, and then they just cashed their Government loan check and simply did not attend class. In the United States, the check is made out to the school and the student, but with regard to foreign schools, the check is made out simply to the students. These are only the students who were caught doing their fraudulent activity. I have no doubt there are many more who have not been apprehended. That is why we ought to take action. We must prevent cases such as this one. 
   Mr. Conrad Cortez claimed to be such a student, and he applied for student loans. In March of 2000, he admitted to charges of submitting 19 fraudulent student loan applications over a 3-year period. He pled guilty before a U.S. district court judge to numerous accounts of mail fraud, bank fraud, and Social Security account number fraud in the State of Massachusetts. The prosecutor told the court in that case that Cortez was responsible for dozens of other loans filed outside Massachusetts--in Florida and Texas. 
   The absolute disregard for the American taxpayers was epitomized by Conrad Cortez. Mr. Cortez was living high at the expense of American taxpayers and in violation of law by filing false documents to receive loan money from the Government. 
   During the period from 1996 through 1999, he bought gifts for his friends, including jewelry and cars, paid for private tennis lessons, made a downpayment on a house, sent some money back to his native Colombia, ate in the best restaurants, and even paid restitution for a previous charge of defrauding the Government, and he did this all with the American taxpayers' money. 
   Mr. Cortez' fraud only ended when he was turned in by his sister's boyfriend, who claimed that Mr. Cortez had used his identity to obtain additional loans. In fact, Mr. Cortez was about to help himself to $800,000 that you and I pay in income taxes. He had filed 37 false claims in all, spending the money as fast as it came in to him. 
   The inspector general's office of the Department of Education, with the FBI, and the attorney general's office in Boston combined forces to apprehend him before he could get all the money that was coming to him through those false loans. He did, however, pocket about $300,000 before he was caught. 
   This is not an isolated case. In 1994, the General Accounting Office found that the Department of Education had approved student loans to hundreds of students attending 91 foreign medical schools. Frankly, I am not sure there are 91 medical schools out there in this world, outside the United States, for which we ought to be funding education. If somebody comes to this country expecting to be a doctor, we need to know they have met certain quality education standards. But, at any rate, that is what we hear. 
   In applying its standards, the Department of Education relies exclusively on information submitted by those foreign schools as to their viability. Enforcement and oversight problems at the Department still abound. Who is to say how many students have fraudulently applied for loans? There isn't a report on that. Those are unknown unknowns, as they say in management. We cannot measure what we do not know. 
   Most likely, the greatest abuse of the system occurs when the student, for various reasons, just pockets the money and never goes to class. Under the present system, who will know? We do know that the system is broken. This legislation is one step toward fixing it. 
   Another abuse occurs when a foreign school is actually paid the tuition but does not insist that the student attend class and provides no real education to the student. I guess a foreign school could simply be glad to get the American money, the American check, and at that point it is up to the student whether or not he or she actually attends class or learns anything. I think we need to have the Department of Education look into that and make sure students are actually attending class and not taking a European vacation. 
   Mr. Cortez demonstrated a perfect example of why this program is high risk. There simply is not enough oversight. Currently, the methodology for approving and releasing student loan funds is vulnerable. Current law states that the student may request a check be issued directly to him or her, when claiming they are attending a foreign school, and a check will be sent directly to them, without the requirement of a cosignature by the school. 
   The Office of Inspector General at the Department of Education identified weaknesses and deficiencies in the following areas of the foreign school attendance programs: Verification of enrollment, the disbursement process, the determination of the borrowers' eligibility, standards of administrative and financial capability on the part of the foreign school, and general oversight of foreign schools. 
   The same Office of Inspector General report--that is the Department of Education's own inspector general's office within that Department--stated that the number of students claiming to attend foreign schools and applying for loans increased each academic year from 1993 to 1997 and went from 4,594 students to 10,715 students. Later figures show the number continues to increase. Indeed, in 1998-1999 there were 12,000 foreign loans. 
   My legislation will require the Secretary of Education to initiate a 12-month fraud control pilot program involving guaranty agencies--those are the people who put up the loan money guaranteed by the Federal Government--lenders, and a 
   representative group of foreign schools to reduce the incidence of fraud in the student loan program. I believe the Secretary should look into a number of solutions. 
   Maybe the guaranty agencies should confirm that the student is enrolled in the foreign school before the loan is actually disbursed. After the money has been disbursed to the student, maybe the guaranty agencies should confirm that the student remains registered. 
   The Secretary should also determine whether it would be advantageous to require a loan check to be endorsed by both the student and the foreign institution. I am inclined to think it is. But we shall see. Maybe this evaluation period can help us determine that. 
   The question then becomes, Why are we paying for students to go to foreign schools? These are American taxpayers' dollars flowing to foreign economies where the standards of education may not be as high as ours. I have checked with the higher education systems in my State. They certainly are not at full capacity and certainly can handle more students. 
   Perhaps there should be some limit on the number of years of study abroad. How many? Five? Six? Seven? Is that limited today? No, it is not. Maybe we ought to limit the number of years that the taxpayers will fund foreign education. Today there is no limit. Students can complete their entire education abroad, supported by the taxpayers, sometimes not in good institutions. Perhaps the quality of the institution should be verified, among other things. But this will not be an issue raised by our legislation today. 
   Our legislation will simply go to the question of whether or not we can improve the way we guard against actual fraud in these loans. It will begin the process of erasing the fraudulent behavior of ``students'' claiming they are attending foreign schools and then pocketing the money for their personal lifestyle. 
   So I introduce this legislation today and hope my colleagues will quickly support such a measure as this because I believe it will reduce the fraud that has been plainly demonstrated in a critical report by the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education. 
   In the course of working on this, I would like to express my appreciation to a number of people who have played an important role in this. I thank the cosponsors of this legislation, including Senator JEFFORDS, who chairs the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee; Senator TIM HUTCHINSON of Arkansas, who is here, who has been a supporter and has had a great interest in this as a cosponsor; along with Senators BROWNBACK and COLLINS.  
   I also express my appreciation to Scott Giles of Senator JEFFORDS's office; to Melanie DeMayo, who has done such a tremendous job helping us identify and research this problem; and Anthony Leigh of my staff, who is with me now, who has helped me work on this. 
   We believe this is perhaps not a glamorous issue but an important issue, an important step we can take to eliminate plain fraud that is clearly occurring around this country to a substantial degree, defrauding the taxpayers of the money they have sent to Washington. 
   Mr. President, I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, it has been an honor to be with Dr. Karl Stegall this morning and to be blessed by his prayer. He is pastor of the First United Methodist Church of Montgomery, AL. First Methodist is one of the great Methodist churches in Alabama, and, in fact, of all of Methodism. It has had two of its pastors become United Methodist bishops. Indeed, Karl himself was endorsed by the 600 pastors and 600 laity of the Alabama-West Florida Conference for the Episcopality several years ago. 
   Karl grew up in rural Alabama, not too far from where I did. It is considered to be a poor county, and a poor area, but not poor in things that matter. He even came over to Camden once and won the beef competition with the FFA. 
   But he has not forgotten his heritage. He has served in his career at First United Methodist Andalusia, First Bonifay, Whitfield Memorial, and was district superintendent. For the last 18 years, he has been pastor of First Methodist. 
   It has been a heavenly match. That great gothic church, with its soaring ceiling and buttresses and superb choir, has blossomed under his leadership. Attendance has grown. Young people are everywhere. The church has expanded and grown in so many different ways to bless the community. He served as a leader on the Board of Global Ministries of the United Methodist Church and always fought aggressively to ensure that every dollar contributed, as I have heard him say, from the small, individual church men and women, was spent wisely and effectively. 
   He is loved by all, but he has courage and is willing to speak forcefully. He recently delivered a sermon when Alabama was considering whether or not to adopt a lottery. He questioned the wisdom of having the State encourage people to invest their money in random chances to be rich. That sermon was received very well, passed all over the State, and the State eventually rejected that choice. 
   His wife, Brenda, and he have been partners throughout their ministry, and they have two daughters. He is a beloved minister by his congregation, by his fellow ministers, and respected by all in the community. 
   He is a Christian clergyman of the finest kind. While he would have been successful in any profession, he chose to give his life to the greatest profession. 
   By his fine prayer today, we are blessed. By his life and ministry, the people of his church have been blessed. And by his presence today he serves as a recognition of the constant and superb service delivered by tens of thousands of ministers throughout this Nation who daily enrich the lives of their parishioners; who serve them in times of illness and sickness; who minister to them in times of emotional stress, divorce, and all kinds of family challenges; who celebrate with them marriages and births. Those thousands and thousands of ministers who do that daily are not run by the Federal Government. They are not paid by this Government, but they are there, serving their faith and their Lord.  
   So we are, indeed, delighted to have with us today one of our finest Christian ministers in the State of Alabama, Dr. Karl Stegall. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, March 16, 2001, will mark the 250th anniversary of the birth of James Madison, who clearly earned the title: Father of our Constitution. 
   This great American devoted his life to the service of his country and his fellow man, and that service played an essential role in creating and protecting the constitutional liberty that we enjoy today. 
   Accordingly, I intend to offer the bipartisan James Madison Commemoration Commission Act to celebrate the life and contributions of this small man who was a giant of liberty. 
   James Madison was born on March 16, 1751 in Port Conway, VA. He was raised at Montpelier, his family's estate in Orange County, VA. He attended the College of New Jersey, now known as Princeton University, where he excelled academically and graduated in 1771. Shortly after his graduation, Madison embarked on a legal career. In 1774, at the age of 23, Madison entered political life. He was first elected to the Orange County Committee of Safety. Following that, he was elected as delegate to the Constitutional Convention of Virginia in 1776. He next served as a member of the Continental Congress from 1780 to 1783. This provided him marvelous insight into the nature of our early American government and ideals. 
   After America won its freedom at Yorktown, the country looked to strengthen the government that had proven too helpless under the Articles of Confederation. A Constitutional Convention was called in Philadelphia. It was here that Madison was to play the most important role of his life, dwarfing, in my view, his subsequent excellent service to his country. 
   From 1784 to 1786, Madison was a member of the Constitutional Convention. He served as a primary draftsman of the Constitution. Thomas Jefferson, who was in France at the time, and who did not participate in the Constitutional Convention, did suggest a number of books that would aid the young draftsman in preparing for his historic task. With these books and others, Madison engaged in an extensive study of the ancient governments of Greece and Rome and of the more modern governments of Italy and England, among others. No one came to Philadelphia so intentionally, practically, and historically prepared to create a new government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I say to Senator GRAMS, I think this is another insightful bit of tax relief policy you are promoting. I look forward to studying it. People think sometimes this is not possible. I don't think we stop to celebrate enough the wonderful thing that happened when, under your leadership and that of a lot of others who worked on it, we were able to provide a $500-per-child tax credit to working families in America. A mother with two children will now have, today, $1,000 more a year--nearly $80 a month with which they can buy shoes or fix the muffler on the car, take the kids on a trip or to a movie or out for a meal. It is the kind of thing that was really great. People said it could not be done and it was done. 
   I think these other proposals the Senator makes are realistic and also can be done. 
   We need to continue to work at this. The question is whether the American people are going to be able to keep this money or are we going to allow more and more to come to Washington as it grows more and more powerful and the power and wealth and independence of American citizens grows weaker and weaker. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think my colleague also makes an excellent point about this percentage of the total gross domestic product. People say we cannot afford a tax cut, but we have reached record levels of a total gross domestic product that is being taken by the Government. These suggestions the Senator makes are worthwhile. We need to be working on that and the marriage penalty and the estate tax and a lot of other things around here which we can afford. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak in morning business for approximately 10 to 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we are now dealing with a very important issue to the future of our country; and that is the price of energy; oil and gas, gasoline, and home heating fuel prices. They have been going up at a dramatic rate. 
   This is not a surprise. This is an event predicted and warned about by Members of this Congress for years, including Senator MURKOWSKI, who chairs the Energy Committee. I have talked about it for the last 3 or 4 years that I have been in this Senate. 
   This is what the issue is about. By allowing our domestic energy production to decline steadily, we have less and less ability to control prices in the world market, and, in fact, we become more and more vulnerable to price increases and production reductions by the OPEC oil cartel--that group of nations centered in the Middle East that get together to fix prices by manipulating production levels. 
   We now find ourselves in a very serious predicament. It is not a predicament that a simple release of a little oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is going to help. It threatens our economy in the long term. 
   Kofi Annan, Secretary General of the U.N., just wrote an editorial that I saw over the weekend. He has predicted that the poorer nations, the developing nations, will be hurt more by rising energy prices than the wealthy nations, but he does not dispute that wealthy nations will also be damaged. 
   This increase in fuel costs amounts to a tax on the American people. It comes right out of their pocket every time they go to the gas station. 
   Now we have this ``bold'' plan of the Gore-Clinton administration to release 30 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. This is supposed to be a solution to this problem, it is supposed to really help. But what this recent action really amounts to, is  closing the barn door after the horse is out. 
   Releasing 30 million barrels of oil will meet no more than 1 1/2 days demand for energy in America. We consume nearly 20 million barrels of oil per day in this country. A 30-million barrel release will not affect, in any significant way, the problems we are facing. That is a fact. 
   Oil demand is not elastic. That is the crux of this problem. People have to have it. If you are traveling to work in your automobile--and there is no other way to get to work for an overwhelming number of American citizens, students, workers, and kids going to school--you must use gasoline and pay the price it costs. 
   So the way this thing has worked is this: The OPEC nations over the years saw economies around the world steadily strengthening. Third World nations, began using more automobiles and electricity, increasing demand for oil, using more energy. We salute them for that. The life span for people in countries that have readily available electricity and energy is almost one-half longer than for those in countries that do not have it. We ought to celebrate poor countries being able to improve their standard of living. But as they improve their standard of living, their demand for energy increases. It is happening more and more around the world, and we should be happy quality of life is improving for third world nations. But as demand increased, oil prices remained at a steady rate for a significant period, then OPEC withdrew its 
   production. 
   You have to understand, it does not take much of a difference in production to spike the price. That is exactly what happened. They cut production below the world demand. To get the oil and gasoline that people around the world needed, they were willing to pay a higher price. They had to pay a higher price to fill up their gas tank. People could not stop buying gas when the price went from $1 to $1.50 to $1.80. They had to keep buying gas, just as all of us do in this country today. So the shortfall does not have to be large to give them that kind of manipulative power over the price. 
   This Administration has blamed the oil industry. I have no doubt that if the oil industry could make a few cents more per gallon, they would try to do so at any point in time. But let's remember, a little over a year ago, in my State of Alabama, you could buy gasoline for $1 a gallon. Of that $1 of gasoline you bought, 40 cents of it was tax. So really you were paying only 60 cents for a gallon of gas, less than a gallon of water. 
   That gasoline was probably produced somewhere in Saudi Arabia, refined, and shipped here in ships on which they spend billions to keep as safe as they possibly can. It is transported, 24 hours a day, to gas stations around the country. You take a gas pump nozzle, put it in the receptacle, and the gas goes into your tank. Nobody ever doubts the quality of the gasoline or likely gives much thought to where it came from. It is a remarkable thing that the oil industry can do that. Does anybody think a Government agency could do that? No, sir. 
   So what happened? When OPEC cut their production, it spiked the world price--and they have a world market for oil--a barrel of oil which was selling for $13, $12, has now hit $36 a barrel and it may be going higher because of price manipulation. 
   The price has gone up 50, 60, 70 cents a gallon. What does that really mean? It is not like an American tax on gasoline where we take that 40 cents with which to build roads and other things. It is a tax by OPEC on us. Foreign countries that are supplying us their oil are in effect charging us 40, 50 cents more for a gallon of gas which every American is paying. It is a drain on the wealth of this country. It threatens our economic vitality and growth. 
   You may say: ``Jeff, why didn't we do a better job of producing oil?'' There are some who say this administration has no energy policy. I don't agree. It has a policy. It is a no-growth, no-production policy. It has been that policy for the last 7 1/2 years. If AL GORE is elected President, it will continue, and you ain't seen nothing yet when it comes to the price for fuel in this country. That is a plain fact. 
   We have tremendous reserves in Alaska for example. We voted on this floor--and the vote was vetoed by the administration--to produce oil and gas from the tremendous ANWR reserves. Oh, they said, it is a pristine area, and America will be polluted. The fact is, there are oil wells all around this country. People live right next to them. Oil wells do not pollute. But despite this plain fact, the Administration refused to allow production. 
   It has been reported, the ANWR reserves could be safely produced in an area less than the size of Dulles Airport serving the Washington, DC area. We would not destroy the Alaskan environment as we produce oil and gas there. Unfortunately, this administration would rather us pay Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the sheiks for it rather than produce it in our own country, keeping the wealth here. 
   They say: ``Some of that Alaskan oil is sold to Japan''. Economically that does not make any difference. When you sell it to Japan, you get money from Japan. You can buy it from Saudi Arabia, or wherever you buy it from--Venezuela. It makes no difference in economic terms. 
   That is a bogus argument, as any person who thinks about it would understand. The more we produce here, the less wealth of our Nation is transferred outside our Nation. 
   Fundamentally, this increase in prices was not driven so much by supply and demand. It was driven by a cartel. If this administration wants to address antitrust crimes, maybe they ought to worry less about Microsoft and worry more about this cartel that has come together to drive up energy prices. They have driven it up through political means. 
   We, as American citizens, need to ask our Government: What political means are you using, Mr. Clinton, to overcome this threat? What are you proposing, Mr. Gore, to overcome that? Windmills? Eliminate the internal combustion engine? Is that your proposal? Are we going to use solar energy production? 
   I support various alternatives. I voted for ethanol. I voted for a pilot program to determine whether a switch grass could be utilized to produce energy, and it has potential. I supported the advanced vehicle technology programs and renewable energy research. But these technologies are a drop in the bucket compared to what we need to deal with our energy demands in this Nation. 
   Think about what we are doing. We are seeing major impacts on American consumers. If a family had an average monthly bill for gasoline of $60, when that gallon of gasoline went from $1 to $1.50, that means that the bill per month went from $60 to $90, a $30-a-month after tax draw on that family's budget for no other reason than an increase in gasoline prices. If the bill was $100 a month, and many families will pay more than that, it has become $150. It is a $50-a-month draw on their budget. 
   This is a matter of great national importance. It need not happen. The experts are in agreement. There are sufficient energy reserves in our country to increase the supply and meet demand. Our government could drive down these prices. But we have to have an administration that believes in producing oil and gas, not an administration that is systematically, repeatedly blocking attempts at more production. 
   For example, there is a procedure used in my home State of Alabama called hydraulic fracturing. It is used in the production of coalbed methane. In some areas, coal may not be of sufficient quality and quantity to mine, but it does have methane in it. What has been discovered is that you can drill into the coal and produce methane from it with almost no disruption of the environment. 
   Methane is one of the cleanest burning fossil fuels we can have. It is far better for the environment than many competing fuels. Production of coalbed methane is something we ought to encourage. Hydraulic fracturing of coalbeds has never caused a single case of underground drinking water contamination. In fact, for years, the EPA did not bother to regulate it. Then somebody filed a lawsuit. Because the use of this technology for coalbed methane production is relatively new, Congress had never addressed it. The lawsuit argued that pumping water into the ground needed to be regulated in the same way as injecting hazardous waste  into the ground because there was no other statutory framework to apply. This has caused coalbed methane producers to go through all kinds of extensive regulatory procedures and generally depressed coalbed methane production activities. The EPA never really wanted to regulate, and in fact, argued that hydraulic fracturing did not need to be regulated at the federal level because it had caused no environmental problems and the state programs were working well. Unfortunately, the court ruled against the EPA because the law which governs this activity was written at a time this activity barely existed. I have introduced legislation which would allow the states to continue their successful regulatory programs. Yet we have been unable to get the kind of support from the administration and the EPA that would allow us to produce this clean form of gas all across America. It would be good for our 
   country. That is an example of the no growth, no production policy of the administration. 
   We have taken out of the mix, the possibility of drilling in so many of our western lands that are Government owned. There are huge areas out there with very large reserves of gas and oil. Yet, this administration has systematically blocked production. They have vetoed legislation--which we almost overrode--to keep us from drilling in ANWR. They have refused to drill off the coast of California. They have refused to drill and are proposing to limit drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. In fact, Vice President GORE recently, stated he favored no more drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and in fact would limit, perhaps, leases that had already been let. 
   That is a big deal. Electric energy in America is being produced more and more through the use of natural gas. In addition to home heating, it is being increasingly used to generate electricity. It is generating it far cleaner than most any other source of energy. Almost every new electric-generating plant in this country has been designed to use natural gas. It comes through pipelines. Most of it is coming out of the Gulf of Mexico. There are huge reserves off the gulf coast of my home State of Alabama and throughout the gulf area. That ought to be produced. 
   It is unbelievable that we would not produce that clean natural gas, but instead continue to import our oil from the Middle East and allow a huge tax to be levied on American citizens by the OPEC cartel members. It makes no sense at all. As anybody who has been here knows, they know what the policy is. The policy of the extreme no-growth people in America is to drive up the price of gasoline. They figure if they drive it up high enough, you will have to ride your bicycle to work, I suppose. But most people don't live a few blocks or miles from work. A lot of people are elderly. A lot of people have children to take to school, and they have to take things with them when they go to work. They have errands to run and family obligations to meet. They cannot use bicycles or rely on windmills to do their work. 
   That is the policy of this administration, to drive up energy costs. That is the only way you can see it. Systematically, they have blocked effort after effort after effort to allow this country to increase production. We have to change that. Our current energy problems will only get worse if we do not. 
   We have tremendous energy reserves in America. If we insist on sound environmental protection but not excessive regulation, if we make sure that production in areas such as ANWR in Alaska is conducted as previous Alaskan oil and gas production has been conducted we can make great strides in controlling our energy prices. The Trans-Alaskan Pipeline, has been delivering oil for two decades now and has had a minimal impact on the environment and not destroyed anything. The caribou are still there. The tundra has not melted. America has benefited from the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline and the energy that has been produced there. We certainly cannot stop producing oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico, as the Vice President has proposed. That idea is stunning. It is a radical proposal. It is a threat to our future. We cannot allow it. 
   We cannot assume, we cannot take for granted one moment the belief that this release of a supply equal to 1 1/2 day's demand is going to deal with our long-term problem. We have an administration that is cheerfully accepting, increased prices American must pay for energy. Those prices are going to continue to increase unless we do something about it. It does not take a huge increase in supply to help better balance demand and supply. So if we can begin to make even modest progress toward increasing our domestic supply, I think we can begin to see the price fall in a relatively short term. However, we cannot do it with the kinds of no-growth policies this administration is talking about. 
   I do believe in improving the environment. I support the policies that do so. I support research in many alternative energy sources and hope we will see some break throughs. I hope we will continue to develop technologies to increase the quality of the energy sources, which could make the use of energy cleaner and more efficient. I think these are good prudent steps to take. 
   But with the world demand we are facing, these efforts have not yet led to a big step--a good step, but not a big step. We are going to see increased demand in the United States and around the world. The experts tell us there is energy here in the United States. We need to be able to produce it and not continue to allow the wealth of this Nation to be transferred across the ocean to a few nations that were lucky enough to be founded on pools of oil. 
   That must remain our goal. That is what I and others will continue to working for in this Congress. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the Senator has been here, as I have, for nearly 4 years now. I want to just ask him this: Has Senator MURKOWSKI, who chairs the Energy Committee, and others in this Congress, been warning for years about this, saying that we were denied American production, that it was going to come back to haunt us and prices would go up and it would drain our wealth? Have they been urging this administration for years to deal with it and support some production? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator for those comments, and I do think it is important for America. The average citizen doesn't have time to watch debate here and hear what goes on in committees, but this has been a matter of real contention for a number of years. There have been warnings by people such as Senator MURKOWSKI, who chairs the Energy Committee, and others, that this would occur, and it has now occurred. I think it is particularly a condemnation of the policy when you have been told about the consequences and warned about it publicly and still you have not acted. That, to me, is troubling. I appreciate the Senator's comments. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Texas for his insight and leadership and expertise and courage and ability to explain, in common language, some of our most complex financial issues facing this country. It is an extraordinarily valuable asset to our country, to have Senator GRAMM in this body as a trained economist. I never cease to be amazed and appreciative of what he contributes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, today I want to talk about the situation involving hospitals in America. We passed the Balanced Budget Act in 1997. It was an agreement, not only of this Congress, but of the President. It was to be administered by the executive branch agency called HCFA. We projected a number of reductions and savings that would occur as a result of our efforts to balance the budget, to curtail double-digit increases in health care, and to make hospitals really force some cost containment in the escalating cost of health care in America. 
   I believe in that, and I support that. I think that, in part, it has been successful. Experts projected savings over this period of time would have been $115 billion. We now see that savings to Medicare will be closer to $250 billion. In other words, the savings that have come out of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements to hospitals that are taking care of indigent patients whether they get paid or not have had an impact far in excess of what we anticipated when we passed the BBA. 
   I have traveled to about eight different hospitals in the last several months in my State. I met with groups of administrators from these hospitals. I talked to nurses, administrators, practitioners and accountants in the hospitals, and I believe that they are not crying wolf, but that their concerns are real. I believe there is a problem there. 
   I would like to share with the Members of this body some of my concerns about it and say we are going to need to improve and find some additional funding that will help those hospitals. 
   In Alabama, when we passed the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Alabama's hospitals' bottom line already was significantly less than that of other hospitals in the country. That year, Alabama had an average operating margin of 2 percent, whereas the average operating margin for 1997 was 16 percent. Aside from lower operating margins, the State also has special health needs. When compared with other States, Alabama's health care market had a higher than average percentage of Medicare and Medicaid and uninsured residents. In 1998, the State's Medicare enrollees made up 15.4 percent of the population and Medicaid residents made up 15.3 percent, both above the national average of 14.1 percent. So when those reimbursements were reduced, Alabama felt it more severely than most States. 
   One significant part of the BBA that has been especially damaging to our Nation's hospitals is the lack of a market basket update. The market basket is Medicare's measure of inflation. It is an inflation index. It is essentially a cost-of-living adjustment for hospitals. Without an accurate inflationary update, or market basket update, Medicare payments for a hospital's inpatient perspective payment system--the way we pay them--are inadequate and do not reflect inflation or the increased demands of regulations, new technologies, and a growing Medicare population. 
   As part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, which was passed to address the double-digit growth in Medicare spending, updates in the market basket were frozen. But by freezing the updates, mathematically this effectively created negative update factors. 
   For example, in 1998, the market basket update was 0.1 percent; for 1999, it was a minus 1.9 percent; for fiscal year 2000, it was minus 1.8 percent; for 2001, it is scheduled to be minus 1.1 percent; for 2002, minus 1.1 percent. So, in effect, we not only have frozen the inflation increase over all these years, we have created mathematically a reduction in the funding. 
   From 1998 to 2000, hospital inflation rates rose 8.2 percent, while Medicare payments for inpatient care rose 1.6 percent. You can do that for a while. We can create some savings, but at some point you begin to cut access to essential health care, making health care in hospitals more difficult less personnel and decreased resources. 
   Overall, the BBA will result in a reduction of Medicare payments for hospital inpatient care by an estimated $46.3 billion over 10 years. This decrease in payments has been compounded by other increased costs such as the rapid increase in the cost of prescription drugs. We all know the rising costs of health care, particularly drug costs. Hospitals feel this crunch as well. 
   Cherokee Baptist Medical Center and Bessemer Northside Community Clinic in Alabama are two facilities that have been hurt. For example, Cherokee Baptist Medical Center has estimated that the 5-year impact of BBA implementation for years 1998 through 2002 will create a loss of $3.7 million for this small rural hospital. That is real money in a real community--$3.7 million. The hospital's operating margin fell from 4.5 percent in 1997 to 2.2 percent in 1999. 
   While Medicare inpatient admissions remain the same, the revenue they have received from them has dropped from $3.5 million to $2.9 million. That is a loss of over $600,000 for the hospital alone. 
   Bessemer Northside Community Clinic opened in 1997 in an attempt to deal with a specific community need. The community needed convenient care for its elder and uninsured. Bessemer opened to fill that need. But due to reductions in Medicare reimbursements, they lost approximately $3 million in 1999, and were projected to lose $4 million in 2000. 
   This clinic served about 2,000 low-income and elderly patients in its first year, and was expected to serve 200,000 as part of a regional health network. Now it has closed its doors. 
   What we need to do: Last year we passed the Balanced Budget Refinement Act. The truth is, it will really come into effect this year. The hospitals will begin to feel its impact in 2001. Some 
   may think we did not do anything last year. We did, but it was phased in, and the real impact is just now beginning to be felt. It is a good start. But it is not enough. Now we need to deal with the market basket update reduction projection of 1.1 percent, again, for 2001 and 2002. We need to restore the full inflationary update. The Alabama Hospital Association as well as the American Hospital Association have identified this as one of their top priorities. 
   The American Hospital Preservation Act, which was introduced by Senator HUTCHISON and cosponsored by myself and 58 other Senators, should be included in this year's Medicare provider give-back legislation that is now being considered in this Congress. 
   Now I will talk about the wage index and how that affects a hospital in Stringfellow, AL. This is a chart that gives a clear indication of what this hospital receives compared to the national average. 
   For the national hospital average, this chart shows a per patient/diagnosis reimbursement rate for labor of $2,760; $1,128 for nonlabor reimbursements. That is what our national hospital average reimbursement rate  looks like for per patient diagnoses for inpatient care, totaling $3,888. 
   But Medicare/Medicaid reimbursements for Stringfellow Memorial Hospital in Anniston, Alabama--because of lower labor costs and a higher percentage of non-labor costs are calculated by HCFA with a complicated formula that does it--is only reimbursed $2,042 for labor. This means that this rural Alabama hospital is being reimbursed $718 less per patient diagnosis. That is money not going to Stringfellow Hospital. That is money not going to that hospital. And the nonlabor costs are the same. So they are feeling a loss of $718 out of the $3,888 average cost for care compared to the national average. 
   Make no mistake, there are other hospitals well above the national average. Where rural Alabama hospitals lose $718 per patient, these hospitals may make $1,500 per patient diagnosis. 
   The nonlabor-labor split also assumes that hospitals purchase outside services from within their region, when in fact, most rural hospitals must purchase services from urban areas--which have must higher wages. In rural Alabama, much of a hospital's services often have to come from Birmingham, the University of Alabama Medical Center, and all the first-rate quality care there. It may have to be transported out to the local hospitals at greater cost than it would be in Birmingham or any other regional medical center. 
   According to a recent study by Deloitte Consulting, approximately 70 percent of Alabama's hospitals will be operating in the red in 2000 and as many as 14 are likely to close--unless something is done. 
   The reductions which have resulted from HCFA's implementation of the BBA, have affected Alabama hospitals in many ways. The reductions have hurt hospitals, both big and small, urban and rural. They have been forced to limit access, cut off services, downsize, and in some instances, close their doors. 
   Shelby Baptist Medical Center in Alabaster, Alabama was forced to close its inmate/juvenile detention medical clinic, close their occupational medicine clinic, close a pediatric clinic, downsize psychiatric services, close physician services to new patients, and decrease the number of health screenings for early detection of disease. They have had to place a hold on all capital projects including a women's services clinic, an additional lab, and the expansion of diagnostic services to the surrounding communities. They have also had to end the development of an ``Open Access Clinic'' to help deal with the area's numerous uninsured and under-insured patients. 
   Likewise, the net income of Coffee Health Group in Lauderdale, Colbert and Franklin Counties in Alabama dropped from $38.3 million in 1997 to a projected negative $13.6 million in 2000. The hospitals' operating margin--the pre-tax profits which are the major source of a hospital's cash flow--dropped from $19.6 million in 1997 to a projected negative $21.5 million in 2000. 
   Market basket update: One significant part of the BBA that has been especially detrimental to our nation's hospitals is the lack of a Market Basket Update. The Market Basket is Medicare's measure of inflation. It is essentially a cost of living adjustment for hospitals. Without an accurate inflationary update, or Market Basket Update, Medicare payments for a hospital's inpatient perspective payment system are inadequate and do not reflect the increased demands of regulations, new technologies, and a growing Medicare population. 
   As part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, which was passed to address a looming health care crisis: double-digit growth in Medicare spending, updates in the Market Basket were frozen. By freezing the updates, the BBA effectively created negative update factors: For fiscal year 1998, the market basket update was -0.1 percent, for fiscal year 1999, the update was -1.9 percent, for fiscal year 2000, the update was -1.8 percent, for fiscal year 2001, the update is scheduled to be -1.1 percent, and for fiscal year 2002, the update is scheduled to be -1.1 percent. 
   Between 1998 and 2000 hospital inflation rates rose 8.2 percent while Medicare payments for hospital inpatient care rose 1.6 percent. Overall, the BBA will result in a reduction of Medicare payments for hospital inpatient care by an estimated $46.3 billion over 10 years. This decrease in payments has been compounded by a rapid increase in the cost of prescription drugs 
   and the price of blood and blood products. We all know of the rising costs of health care--most especially in drug costs. Hospitals feel this crunch as well. While the average costs of ``existing drugs'' or those that came to the market before 1992, is $30.47, the average price of new prescription drugs is $71.49--more than twice that of existing drugs. 
   Cherokee Baptist Medical Center and Bessemer Northside Community Clinic in Alabama are 2 facilities that have been affected by the BBA and provide disheartening real-life examples. 
   Cherokee Baptist Medical Center has estimated that the five-year impact of BBA implementation for fiscal years 1998 through 2002 will create a loss of $3.7 million. The hospital's operating margin fell from 4.5 percent in 1997 to 2.2 percent in 1999. And while Medicare inpatient admissions remained the same, the revenue dropped from $3,512,910 to $2,909,666. That's a loss of over $600,000 for this hospital alone. 
   Bessemer Northside Community Clinic opened in October of 1997 (about the same time the BBA was passed) in coordination with the community and in response to a specific need. The community needed convenient care for its elderly and uninsured. Bessemer opened to fill that need, but due to reductions in Medicare reimbursement that came as a result of the implementation of the BBA, Bessemer lost approximately $3 million in 1999 and was projected to lose about $4 million in 2000. This clinic served about 2,000 low income and elderly patients its first year and was expected to serve over 200,000 as part of a regional health network. It provided more than $4 million in free medical care to Northside residents since the clinic opened. Now, due to the drastic reductions in reimbursement, Bessemer has closed its doors, leaving the community's elderly to travel long distances for care, or in many cases to go without. 
   Last year Congress passed the Balanced Budget Refinement Act (BBRA) in 1999 to address some of the concerns we had about the affects of the implementation of the BBA. One provision in this legislation allows Sole Community Hospitals--those hospitals that are the only access to health care in an area--to receive a full Market Basket Update in fiscal year 2001. That's a good start, but it's not enough. Now we need to strike the BBA-mandated Market Basket reduction of 1.1 percent for fiscal year 2001 and 2002 and restore a full inflationary update. The Alabama Hospital Association as well as the American Hospital Association have identified this as one of their top priorities, and it is what the American Hospital Preservation Act of 1999 does. This bill which was introduced by my colleague Senator HUTCHISON and cosponsored by myself and 58 other Senators, should be included in this year's Medicare provider give-back legislation to address the continuing needs of our Medicare providers. 
   Wage index: Mr. President, another Medicare reimbursement issue which needs to be addressed in any upcoming Medicare provider give-back legislation is a needed adjustment to the Wage Index. 
   Medicare reimbursement for hospital inpatient care is based on a Perspective Payment System (PPS) which was created in the early 1990's to cut Medicare spending. A formula within the PPS is used to adjust Medicare payments to a hospital based on a Wage Index--or the average wage for a particular area. The formula is based on 2 components: labor-related and non labor-related costs. While non labor-related costs are the same nationwide--these are costs for supplies, pharmaceuticals, equipment, etc--labor-related costs differ from region to region and there are large discrepancies between the labor costs in urban and rural areas. The cost of living is lower in rural areas, so they pay, on average, lower wages. The adjustment made for these regional differences is made according to the Wage Index. 
   The national wage index is 1, but most rural hospitals have a wage index of 0.74 and most hospitals in Alabama have a wage index 
   between 0.74 and 0.89, which is 0.11 to 0.26 below the national average. This index which is used to calculate the base rate for  Medicare reimbursement, has several inequities: 
   For example: 
   Adding additional lower paid employees lowers your wage index. 
   Hiring 2 lower paid employees to do the job of one higher paid employee lowers your wage index. 
   Increasing wages has no impact on the wage index for 3 years. 
   Having no corporate overhead from a large proprietary entity lowers your wage index. 
   When developing the Wage Index mechanism, HCFA decided that 71 percent of a hospital's costs were labor related. This rate also includes a predominant shift to labor-related costs due to purchases of outside services which incorrectly assumes that hospitals purchase services only from within their region and thus pay similar wages for these outside services. In reality, rural hospitals usually purchase services from urban areas and must pay urban wages for these services. However, the purchase of outside services from urban areas which may have a greater labor cost is not reconciled with the prevailing wage rate within the rural area. Hence, rural hospitals are paying urban rates for those services but are not being reimbursed at their urban wage rate. The average percentage of hospital expenditures in Alabama that are labor related is 51 percent--far from the 71 percent used by HCFA. And the annual impact of these formula problems result in a reduction of Alabama hospital payments by HCFA by between 5.5 and 6.5 percent or close to $46 million a year. 
   To illustrate the unfairness of the Wage Index formula, you must see the differences in the calculation of the base rate for reimbursement using the Wage Index for both the national average and for a typical Alabama hospital. 
   National Average: 
   Take the initial national base rate for a per patient diagnosis of $3,888. 
   Multiply it by the national average for percentage of wages to all other costs (71 percent) = $2760. 
   Remaining $1128 is non-labor costs. 
   Apply National Average Wage Index (1) to wage cost of $2760 = $2760. 
   Add $2760 to the non-labor portion, $1128, to get a total payment of $3888. This is the base rate for Medicare reimbursement per Medicare patient diagnosis. 
   Compare that to: Stringfellow Memorial Hospital in Anniston, AL: 
   Take the initial national base rate for a per patient diagnosis of $3,888. 
   Multiply it by the national average for percentage of wages to all other costs (71 percent) = $2760. 
   Remaining $1128 is non-labor costs. 
   Now here's the problem. Instead of applying the national average wage index of 1, for this Alabama hospital, we would use the Montgomery wage index of 0.74. 
   So, apply the local wage index of (0.74) to wage cost of $2760 = $2042. 
   Add $2042 to the non-labor portion, $1128, to get a total payment of $3170. 
   Therefore the base rate for per patient diagnosis at Stringfellow Memorial Hospital is $718 less than the national average. That's nearly 20 percent below the national average. 
   HCFA has recognized the problem and has addressed it in other areas. In developing the formula for the new Outpatient Perspective Payment System (PPS), which was required by the BBA of 1997, HCFA set the labor component of hospital costs at 60 percent 
   (as compared to the 71 percent in the Inpatient PPS). According to HCFA, in the development of this new Outpatient formula, 60 percent represents the average split of labor and non labor-related costs. 
   Why then has HCFA not changed the Inpatient PPS formula? Why do we have to do it legislatively? 
   Senator GRASSLEY has proposed legislation that would correct the faulty wage index formula. His plan would mandate that HCFA apply the wage index adjustment only to each hospital's actual labor costs. This proposal, though it has not been scored, would cost approximately $230 million the first year. 
   While I support this proposal, I am also sympathetic to my colleagues whose states are not detrimentally affected by the wage index. For that reason, I would also support other possible solutions to the Wage Index issue. 
   There are 2 possible options: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, today we are celebrating the accomplishments of the men and women of the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, AL, on the occasion of their 40th anniversary which will be celebrated tomorrow. 
   In September of 1960, President Dwight Eisenhower dedicated the Marshall Space Flight Center, which soon began making history under the leadership of Dr. Wernher von Braun. From the Mercury-Redstone vehicle that placed America's first astronaut, Alan Shepard, into suborbital space in 1961, 
   to the mammoth Saturn V rocket that launched humans to the moon in 1969, Marshall and its industry partners have successfully engineered history making projects that gave, and continue to give, America the world's premier space program. 
   We are fortunate to have these dedicated men and women in Huntsville. I will be offering some remarks and hope to speak on the floor again later today. I take this opportunity to express my compliments and those of the American people to the men and women at Marshall Space Flight Center, which began 40 years ago, sent men to the moon, and now is working steadfastly to create a cost-efficient, effective way to send people into space routinely, almost as easily as we fly now across the Atlantic Ocean. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today with two purposes in mind. The first is to compliment the men and women who labor on behalf of the nation at the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama on the occasion of Marshall's 40th Anniversary. My second purpose is to share some thoughts on the importance of Space Transportation in light of the VA/HUD Appropriations Bill that will come before this body in the not too distant future. These two issues are inextricably linked in that Marshall Space Flight Center is the world leader in space transportation yet ever dependent on the funding that the VA/HUD appropriators provide. For that reason, I compliment Senator KIT BOND, and his superlative staff in advance of the bill being debated for all they continue to do on behalf of NASA and the nation. Their foresight will ultimately make the difference as we continue to move forward as a nation of explorers. 
   In September, 1960 President Dwight Eisenhower dedicated the Marshall Space Flight Center which soon began making history under the mentorship and direction of Dr. Wernher von Braun. From the Mercury-Redstone vehicle that placed America's first astronaut, Alan B. Shepard, into sub-orbital space in 1961, to the mammoth Saturn V rocket that launched humans to the moon in 1969, Marshall and its industry partners have successfully engineered  history making projects that gave, and continue to give, America the world's premier space program. 
   We in Alabama and across America have so much to be thankful for and in a small way Marshall and its scientists, engineers and support personnel have carved out a niche of excellence that brought history to the community, state and nation. From Skylab, to the space shuttle to the lunar roving vehicle, America has looked to Marshall for experience and leadership. They were the right stuff, and they continue today to be the best with over 30 world-class facilities and test facilities. As NASA's Center of Excellence for Space Propulsion the men and women of Marshall are not simply dreamers of what may be, but are working hard in research and development to provide the propulsion systems that will enable NASA to provide the nation safe, reliable, low-cost access to space, rapid interplanetary transportation, and the hope of exploration beyond the solar system. This is not folly, Mr. President, this is reality. 
   These initiatives require us to make new investments in Space Transportation and this is what I believe Senator BOND and his committee are trying to do. Investments are being made and must continue to be made in the years to come in the Space Launch Initiative, the Third Generation technology program, and in Shuttle upgrades if we are going to achieve our collective space destiny. 
   I would like to take a few moments today to discuss these initiatives and the promise they hold for our country. I would also like to talk about some of the technology spin-offs these investments will yield for other parts of our economy. 
   The Space Launch Initiative is intended to dramatically reduce the cost of access to space by an order of magnitude over the next 10 years and to increase the reliability of space launch vehicles. 
   This initiative will result in the creation of a ``highway to space'' that will enable increased commercial activity in Earth orbit and beyond. The impact for our nation's economy will be dramatic, I believe. We need only to look at the past to understand the possibilities associated with opening new frontiers. Throughout our history, commerce and growth have been fueled when boundaries have been pushed back. 
   Let me briefly describe the elements and the purpose of NASA's Space Launch Initiative. The Space Shuttle remains the world's only reusable launch vehicle and continues to be a workhorse for NASA and the American public. You may have been watching the recent activities in space surrounding STS-106 (which landed this morning in Florida), our first shuttle mission to the International Space Station since the arrival of its newest component, the Russian supplied service module--Zvezda. The Shuttle is the first generation of reusable launch systems, but it has its faults and we must improve on this system. It is a very expensive system to operate and requires thousands of people and months of work to prepare the system for launch. In order to meet the goals of the Space Launch Initiative, NASA and its partners must develop systems that only require around 100 people and about one week for turnaround. 
   The Space Launch Initiative will focus on reducing technical and programmatic risks as well as the business risks associated with the development of new space launch technologies. While the goal will be to develop a Second Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle that increases crew safety by a factor of 10 and decreases cost by the same amount, the technology we develop along the way will only serve to enrich the economy. Let me provide an example--its NASA's X-33 program. 
   The X-33 is a sub-scale flight demonstrator designed to test many technologies that will drive a full-scale Second Generation vehicle. Like many developmental programs, the X-33 has had its share of setbacks. However, even with setbacks the X-33 program has actually spun off technology that will improve the lives of many newborn children. 
   Let me explain. The X-33's original composite tank contained fiber optic sensing technology embedded along the edge to monitor the health of the system. Realizing the potential of this technology could be far reaching, NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center partnered with Dr. Jason Collins of the Pregnancy Institute in Slidell, Louisiana and with Prism, a San Antonio manufacturer of medical products, to improve obstetric forceps used to position an infant in the mother's womb prior to delivery, and in some cases used to assist with the delivery. Obstetrical forceps have been in use for over 300 years with more than 700 variations of the design, however, none of these allowed the physician to assess the force the instrument placed on the infant. An improvement was definitely needed that would minimize the risk to newborns delivered by forceps. NASA's solution: forceps made of polymeric material which flexes under pressure with fiber optic sensors from the X-33 program embedded in the material during the manufacturing process that indicate strain. 
   It is predicted that the fiber optic forceps will reduce the number of cesarean section deliveries, reduce the risk of injury to the mother, and significantly lower the occurrence of fetal injury caused by ordinary forceps, thus reducing overall health care costs. 
   Another part of the Space Launch Initiative is a program called the Alternate Access to the Space Station. This is an extremely important part of the Initiative for several reasons. The Alternate Access to Space Station effort will provide our country with more than one way service to the Space Station. As you may recall, Mr. President, in the aftermath of the Challenger disaster, the Shuttle program was down for several years. However, once the International Space Station is on orbit with a permanent crew on board, we cannot afford to face a time in which the Shuttle or any one launch vehicle is out of service for an extended period of time. 
   We must have a very robust method of keeping the Station re-supplied. We cannot afford to be tied to one or even two launch systems, but must have access to several launch vehicles. The Alternate Access program is designed to develop some of the most innovative launch vehicle concepts that exist today in industry for the purpose of providing resupply capability to the Station. This effort will give many up-and-coming aerospace companies and entrepreneurs the ability to break into the market by using NASA's requirements as the baseline on which to build their business case and attract investors. 
   While the Space Launch Initiative is designed to reduce the cost of access to space from $10,000 a pound to $1,000 a pound, in order to make space travel truly routine for the average citizen, we must do more. NASA is also planning to invest in Third Generation technologies to further reduce the cost of putting a pound of payload in orbit. The goal of the Third Generation activities is to get launch costs down to $100 a pound within 25 years. At that point, routine access to space for a variety of activities will become possible. 
   NASA's Third Generation program has been dubbed Spaceliner 100--the idea being that the technology advancements would result in a launch vehicle with commercial airliner reliability and again, a cost of around $100 a pound for launch. I was pleased last year to jump-start this investment. In a bipartisan effort, I along with Majority Leader TRENT LOTT, Senators SHELBY, BREAUX, LANDRIEU, VOINOVICH, DEWINE, and COCHRAN pressed for the inclusion of $80 million dollars in the FY 00 VA-HUD bill for Spaceliner 100. 
   I am glad to see that this action did not go unnoticed by the Administration. In this year's FY 2001 budget submission, the White House included $1.2 Billion for NASA's Third Generation effort over the next five years. This funding will support research in earth-to-orbit, in-space, and interstellar transportation technologies. 
   Earlier in my comments, I mentioned the Space Shuttle and the tremendous contribution it has made and will continue to make to our nation's space program. As we move towards these advanced launch vehicles, NASA must not take their eye off of the launch vehicle we depend on today. I am pleased to see that this is not the case, in fact the agency is taking steps to ensure that the Shuttle continues to be a robust vehicle. In fact, NASA is actually advocating upgrades for the Shuttle and the Administration proposed to  spend $1.4 Billion dollars over five years in upgrades to the Shuttle. However, in light of the investments in Second and Third Generation technologies, you might wonder if Shuttle upgrades are worth it. The answer is yes and here's why: 
   First, we are dealing with a crew safety issue. Today the Shuttle performs on the edge of its capabilities. Statistically speaking, the Shuttle system will encounter a catastrophic failure once in every 450 launches. However, with the proposed upgrades, the Shuttle would have a much better safety margin. 
   With the upgrades, for every launch of the Shuttle, the catastrophic failure rate would be one in every 1,000 launches. Although this is not even close to the one in 2 million safety margin we enjoy on commercial airliners, it is a vast improvement. And when you are dealing with human lives, every little bit helps. 
   Second, every upgrade proposed for the Shuttle will be a candidate for use on Second Generation systems. In other words, not only is NASA improving safety for Shuttle crews, they are getting the opportunity to ``road test'' many new technologies. 
   I have briefly described NASA's Space Launch Initiative as well as the Agency's Third Generation efforts. I have provided an example or two of spin off technologies we are receiving and will continue to receive from this significant investment. These efforts are important to our nation's economic future as well as our continued National security. I believe these efforts will amount to a defining moment in our nation's space program in the day's ahead. 
   I am proud of the lead role NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama is taking in these efforts. But as anyone at Marshall will tell you, this will take the combined efforts of many of NASA's other Field Centers, along with the 
   full participation of America's aerospace industry, and the help of many academic partners. 
   I began my remarks today by describing the 40 year effort at Marshall and the hard work that we have witnessed by Senator BOND's committee. We should not be lured into a false sense of security that we will always have the talent in our field centers we have today, or the great support we enjoy from the authorization and appropriations committees. As we look into the future, access to space will be as important to us as civil aviation is today. However, we all have a lot of work ahead of us, and this is an endeavor we must educated ourselves on and monitor closely that it doesn't stray off course. There is simply too much at stake to allow that to happen. 
   In the mid-1970's, the U.S. dominated the worldwide commercial space launch market. Today, we launch only 30 percent of the world's commercial payloads. Our re-emergence into the commercial market place will depend on bold investments, and on the boldness of our leaders who wish for America to remain a Nation of Explorers. 
   I urge my colleagues therefore to study carefully the upcoming NASA appropriation bill and suggest to them that they support the VA/HUD Appropriations Bill, and the investments in the Space Launch Initiative, Third Generation technologies, and Shuttle upgrades. These investments will truly be the keys to our future success in space and in the future global marketplace. 
   They also guarantee that the men and woman at the George C. Marshall Space Center have the tools to unlock the technological mysteries that lie before us, and in doing so make planet Earth a better place to live. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have decided to vote in favor of China PNTR because I believe this action will continue our policy of engagement with the Chinese government and increase the likelihood that our nation will have better relations with China in the years to come. The other option was to act on the assumption that China will become more hostile to the United States and that we must try to seal it off, which will not work. 
   This decision is a further step down the road that was begun by President Nixon in 1972 when he concluded it was better to have relations with China than to shut it off. Since then there have been many difficulties, but on the whole, I believe the relationship has been better than it would have been otherwise. 
   We now maintain military superiority over China and it is critical that it continue. I do not believe that it is inevitable that our future will be shaped by hostile relations with China. If we are strong and maintain our military, the chance of avoiding potential future hostilities will be improved. Such a vision is what wise leadership is all about. 
   I am not certain how best to improve the conditions of Christians and other religious people in China. I do recall, however, that when Rome changed from persecuting the early Christians to making Christianity the official religion of the empire, the change came about because of a change of heart and not as a result of a threat from an outside military power. 
   I was very impressed with the testimony of Ned Graham, son of the Rev. Billy Graham, who aids Christians in China and who has visited the country over forty times and distributed over two million Bibles to unlicensed Christians. He testified before the Senate Finance Committee. In his summation he stated that a vote for PNTR would encourage China's engagement with the world, increase the availability of computer technology to its citizens, accelerate its development of a rule of law, allow for increased contact between U.S. and Chinese citizens, and ultimately lead to positive changes in its religious policy. He concluded that most importantly ``this action will help diminish the negative perceptions that exist between our two great countries.'' While we, as humans, can never know the future, I am persuaded by his remarks. Generosity of spirit and forbearance founded on strength are the qualities of a great nation. 
   On the level of trade, I believe that my state of Alabama will be able to sell more products in China because of the significant reductions in the tariffs China has imposed on imported American goods. This increased trade will benefit Alabama's farmers, timber industry and much of our manufacturing. It can benefit our transportation system, including the Port of Mobile. 
   While I think it will increase our exports, I cannot conclude that this agreement is going to help our overall balance of trade deficit, at least not in the short run. While China has a significant wage advantage in its manufacturing, it has a shortage of many natural resources, lacks technology, has a very poor infrastructure and is burdened by corruption and a lack of a rule of law which protects liberties and property interests. In addition, it continues to hold on to the form of communism, an ideology of incalculable destructive power. These problems will burden them for years to come and will take many generations to eliminate. 
   The key to the success of this agreement will be vigorous, determined and sustained leadership by the United States to ensure that China complies with this agreement and the WTO rules. China's tendency has been to cut corners and not live up to its obligations under agreements. In my view, China must come to see that its interests and those of its trading partners will be advanced by following these trading rules. Unfortunately, China seems to be obsessed with exporting and not importing. The truth is China and her people will benefit from having the opportunity to buy quality food and products from around the world. They must come to recognize that fact. 
   This issue is very complex and no one can see into the future with a crystal ball, but my analysis and judgement tells me it is time to step out in a positive way, and to take the lead in reducing some of the suspicions and misperceptions that have grown in recent years between our two nations. 
   Since I believe that increased economic activity between our two countries is not likely to assist China in strengthening its military in any substantial way, regardless of legislation, I see the positive aspects of this legislation outweighing the negative. We must, however, make clear to China that we intend to defend our just interests and those of our allies around the world, and that we will not abandon our ally and friend, the Democratically elected government of Taiwan. We also need to remain especially vigilant to protect our military secrets and technological advantage. I was therefore disappointed that the amendment offered by Senator FRED THOMPSON did not pass. We must make crystal clear to our business community that we will not tolerate transfer of our military technology to China. While I favored a number of the amendments that have been offered to this legislation, and was disappointed they did not pass, I am appreciative of the quality of the debate that has surrounded this issue. 
   China has 1.2 billion people, the most populous country on this globe. Their people are talented and hardworking. Our vote today should enhance our economic and political relationships. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on June 9, 1999, the late Senator Paul Coverdell introduced legislation aimed at addressing one of the most pressing problems facing law enforcement today: the critical backlogs in our state crime labs. Senator Coverdell's National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act of 1999 (S. 1196) attracted broad bipartisan support in Congress, as well as the enforcement of national law enforcement groups. Unfortunately, before Senator Coverdell's bill could move through Congress, he passed away. 
   As a fitting, substantive tribute to Senator Coverdell, I am today introducing the Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act of 2000 to eliminate the crisis in forensics labs across the country. This was an issue he cared a great deal about, and I am honored to have the opportunity to carry on his efforts to address this problem. 
   The crisis in our forensics labs is acute. According to a report issued in February by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, as of December 1997, 69 percent of state crime labs reported DNA backlogs in 6,800 cases and 287,000 convicted offender samples. The backlogs are having a crippling effect on the fair and speedy administration of justice. 
   For example, the Seattle Times reported on April 23 of this year that police are being forced to pay private labs to do critical forensics work so that their active investigations do not have to wait for tests to be completed. ``As Spokane authorities closed in on a suspected serial killer, they were eager to nail enough evidence to make their case stick. So they skipped over the backlogged Washington State Patrol crime lab and shipped some evidence to a private laboratory, paying a premium for quicker results. [A] chronic backlog at the State Patrol's seven crime labs, which analyze criminal evidence from police throughout Washington state, has grown so acute that Spokane investigators feared their manhunt would be stalled.'' 
   As a former prosecutor, I know how dependent the criminal justice system is on fast, accurate, dependable forensics testing. With backlogs in the labs, district attorneys are forced to wait months and years to pursue cases. This is not simply a matter of expediting convictions of the guilty. Suspects are held in jail for months before trial, waiting for the forensic evidence to be completed. Thus, potentially innocent persons stay in jail, potentially guilty persons stay out of jail, and victims of crime do not receive closure. 
   As an Alabama newspaper, the Decatur Daily, reported on November 28, 1999, ``[The] backlog of cases is so bad that final autopsy results and other forensic testing sometimes take up to a year to complete. It's a frustrating wait for police, prosecutors, defense attorneys, judges and even suspects. It means delayed justice for the families of crime victims.'' Justice delayed is justice denied for prosecutors, defendants, judges, police, and, most importantly, for victims. This is unacceptable. 
   Given the tremendous amount of work to be done by crime labs, scientists and technicians must sacrifice accuracy, reliability, or time in order to complete their work. Sacrificing accuracy or reliability would destroy the justice system, so it is time that is sacrificed. But with the tremendous pressures to complete lab work, it is perhaps inevitable that there will be problems other than delays. Everyone from police to detectives to evidence technicians to lab technicians to forensic scientists to prosecutors must be well-trained in the preservation, collection, and preparation of forensic evidence. 
   The JonBenet Ramsey case is perhaps the most well-known example of a case where forensics work is critical to convicting the perpetrator of a crime. As the Rocky Mountain News reported on February 2, 1997, ``To solve the slaying of JonBenet Ramsey, Boulder police must rely to a great extent on the  results of forensic tests being conducted in crime laboratories. [T]he looming problem for police and prosecutors, according to forensics experts, is whether the evidence is in good condition. Or whether lax procedures ..... resulted in key evidence being hopelessly contaminated.'' 
   We need to help our labs train investigators and police. We need to help our labs reduce the backlog so that the innocent may be exonerated and the guilty convicted. We need to help our labs give closure to victims of crime. 
   The bill I am introducing today is essentially a reintroduction of Senator Coverdell's National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act of 1999 (S. 1196). The bill expands permitted uses of Byrne grants to include improving the quality, timeliness, and credibility of forensic science services, including DNA, blood and ballistics tests. It requires States to develop a plan outlining the manner in which the grants will be used to improve forensic science services and requires States to use these funds only to improve forensic sciences, and limits administrative expenditures to 10 percent of the grant amount. 
   This new bill adds a reporting requirement so that the backlog reduction can be documented and tracked. Additionally, the funding is adjusted to begin authorizations in Fiscal Year 2001, rather than FY 2000, as S. 1196 did. Otherwise, this is the exact same bill Senator Coverdell introduced and that I and many of my colleagues supported. 
   This bill has the support of many of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle, including Senators CLELAND and MILLER from Georgia, Senators LOTT, NICKLES, HATCH, STEVENS, THURMOND, SHELBY, COCHRAN, KYL, WELLSTONE, DODD, GRAMS, DURBIN, FRIST, HELMS, SPECTER, SANTORUM, JEFFORDS, ABRAHAM, L. CHAFEE, MACK, BUNNING, ASHCROFT, HARKIN, and others. I also appreciate the strong support of Representative SANFORD BISHOP of Georgia, the primary sponsor of Senator Coverdell's bill in the House. 
   I spoke with Attorney General Reno last night, and she told me that she ``supports our efforts to improve forensic science capabilities.'' She also told me that this bill ``is consistent with the Department of Justice's approach to helping State and local law enforcement.'' 
   Moreover, numerous law enforcement organizations, including the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors, American Academy of Forensic Sciences, Southern Association of Forensic Sciences, the National Association of Medical Examiners, the International Association of Police Chiefs, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives, Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the National Association of Attorneys General, and the National Association of Counties. 
   These Members of Congress and these organizations understand, as I do, that crime is not political. Our labs need help, and after 15 years as a prosecutor, I am convinced that there is nothing that the Congress can do to help the criminal justice system more than to pass this bill and fund our crime labs. To properly complete tests for DNA, blood, and ballistic samples, our crime labs need better equipment, training, staffing, and accreditation. This bill will help clear the crippling backlogs in the forensics labs. This, in turn, will help exonerate the innocent, convict the guilty, and restore confidence in our criminal justice system. I hope my colleagues will join me in passing the Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act of 2000 in the short time we have remaining in this Session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I express my admiration for the Senator from Ohio. He effectively states his case on matters of great importance to his State and the Nation. He always does that effectively. I greatly admire his views and thought processes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, not too long ago our former colleague, Paul Coverdell, introduced the National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act. It was a bill to further Federal support to State forensic laboratories, those places where DNA evidence is evaluated, where drug evidence is evaluated, where fingerprints, ballistics, and all the other scientific data from carpet fibers, and so forth, are evaluated, and then reported out to the prosecutors around the country so cases can be prosecuted on sound science. 
   Today we have a crisis in our criminal justice system. We clearly have a bottleneck, of major proportions, in the laboratory arena. There is simply an exploding amount of work. More and more tests are available. People are demanding more and more tests on each case that comes down the pike. We are way behind. 
   In my view, as a person who spent 15 years of my life prosecuting criminal cases, swift, fair justice is critical for any effective criminal justice system. We need not to see our cases delayed. We need to create a circumstance in which they can be tried as promptly as possible, considering all justice relevant to the cases. 
   I ran for attorney general of Alabama in 1994. I talked in every speech I made, virtually, on the need to improve case processing. The very idea of a robber or a rapist being arrested and released on bail and tried 2 years later is beyond the pale. It cannot be acceptable. It cannot be the rule in America. 
   Yet I am told by Dr. Downs of the forensic laboratory in the State of Alabama that they now have delays of as much as 20 months on scientific evidence. We know Virginia last year, before making remarkable improvements, had almost a year--and other States. Another police officer today told us his State was at least a year in getting routine reports done. This is a kind of bottleneck, a stopgap procedure that undermines the ability of the police and prosecutors to do their jobs. 
   I was pleased and honored to be able to pick up the Paul Coverdell forensic bill and to reintroduce it as the Paul Coverdell National Forensic Improvement Act of 2000. We have had marvelous bipartisan support on this legislation. Senator MAX CLELAND from Georgia, Paul's colleague, was an original cosponsor of it. He was at our press conference this morning. Senator ZELL MILLER, former Governor of Georgia, who has replaced Paul in the Senate, was also at the press conference today, along with ARLEN SPECTER, a former prosecutor, PAUL 
   WELLSTONE, DICK DURBIN, and others who participated in this announcement. 
   We need to move this bill. It will be one of the most important acts we can do as a Senate to improve justice in America. It is the kind of thing this Nation ought to do. It ought to be helping States, providing them the latest equipment for their laboratories, the latest techniques on how to evaluate hair fiber or carpet fiber or ballistics or DNA. It ought to be helping them do that and ought not to be taking over their law enforcement processes by taking over their police departments, telling them what kind of cases to prosecute, what kind of sentences to impose and that sort of thing. 
   A good Federal Government is trying to assist the local States. One of the best ways we could ever do that is to support improvements in the forensic laboratories. I believe strongly that this is a good bill in that regard. 
   The numbers of cases are stunning. I will share a few of the numbers and statistics that I have. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics of the Department of Justice, as of December of 1997--it has gotten worse since--69 percent of State crime labs reported DNA backlogs of 6,800 cases and 287,000 offender samples were pending. That is human DNA we are talking about. That is not available in every case, but that is not all they have backlogs on. Every time cocaine is seized and a prosecutor wants to try a cocaine case, the defense lawyer is not going to agree to go to trial. He will not agree to plead guilty until he has a report back from the laboratory saying the powder is, in fact, cocaine. It is almost considered malpractice by many defense lawyers to plead guilty until the chemist's report is back. 
   This is slowing up cases all over America. The labs have lots of problems in how they are falling behind. I think we need to look at it. 
   One article reports:  
   As Spokane, Washington authorities closed in on a suspected serial killer they were  eager to nail enough evidence to make their case stick. So they skipped over the backlogged Washington State Patrol crime lab and shipped some of the evidence to a private laboratory, paying a premium for quicker results..*.*.*.[A] chronic backlog at the State Patrol's seven crime labs, which analyze criminal evidence from police throughout Washington state, has grown so acute that Spokane investigators have feared their manhunt would be stalled.  
   Suspects have been held in jail for months before trial, waiting for forensic evidence to be completed. Thus potentially innocent persons stay in jail, potentially guilty persons stay out of jail, and victims get no closure while waiting on laboratory reports to be completed. 
   A newspaper in Alabama, the Decatur Daily, said:  
   [The] backlog of cases is so bad that final autopsy results and other forensic testing sometimes take up to a year to complete.  
   Now they are saying it takes even longer than that in Alabama.  
   It's a frustrating wait for police, prosecutors, defense attorneys, judges and even suspects. It means delayed justice for families of crime victims.  
   Another article:  
   To solve the slaying of Jon Benet Ramsey, Boulder police must rely to a great extent on the results of forensic tests being conducted in crime laboratories. [T]he looming problem for police and prosecutors, according to forensic experts, is whether the evidence is in good condition. Or whether lax procedures *.*.* resulted in key evidence being hopelessly contaminated.  
   We need to improve our ability to deal with these issues. This legislation would provide $768 million over 6 years directly to our 50 State crime labs to allow them to improve what they are doing. 
   At the press conference today, we were joined by a nonpolitician and a nonlaw enforcement officer, but perhaps without doubt the person in this country and in the world who has done more than any other to explain what goes on in forensic labs. We had Patricia Cornwell, a best-selling author of so many forensic laboratory cases--a best selling author, perhaps the best selling author in America. She worked for a number of years in a laboratory, actually measuring and describing, as they wrote down the description of the knife cuts and bullet wounds in bodies. She worked in data processing. 
   She has traveled around this country, and she has visited laboratories all over the country. She said at our press conference they are in a deplorable state. She said the backlog around the country is unprecedented. She lives in Richmond, VA. She personally has put $1.5 million of her own money, matched by the State of Virginia, Governor Gilmore, to create a laboratory in Virginia that meets the standard she believes is required. It is a remarkable thing that she would do that, be that deeply involved. 
   She is involved and chairman of the board of the foundation that helped create that. She told us how police, defense attorneys, prosecutors, are asking for DNA evidence on cigarettes, on hat bands. They want hair DNA done, hundreds and hundreds of new uses, a Kleenex, perhaps, take the DNA off of that, in addition to the normal objects from which you might expect DNA to be taken. Her view was--and she is quite passionate about this; she has put her own money in it; she understands it deeply--that nothing more could be done to help improve justice in America than to help our laboratories around the country. 
   We have people on death row who are being charged with capital crimes. We have people who have been charged with rape who are out awaiting trial because they haven't gotten the DNA tests back on semen specimens or blood specimens, and they may well be committing other rapes and other robberies while they are out, if they are guilty. Also, there is evidence to prove they are not guilty if that is the case. 
   I believe we had a good day today. I believe this Senate and this Congress will listen to the facts about the need for improvement of our forensic laboratories which will respond to the crush of cases that are piling up all over the country and will recognize the leadership that our magnificent and wonderful colleague, Paul Coverdell, gave to this effort and will be proud to vote for the bill named for him, the Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act of 2000, and that we can, on a bipartisan basis, move this bill and strike a major blow for justice in America. 
   I talked with the Attorney General of the United States, Janet Reno, yesterday. She told me this was very consistent with her views. She supports our efforts to improve forensic science capabilities, and she said it is consistent with the Department of Justice's approach to helping State and local law enforcement. I believe the Department of Justice will be supporting this legislation, and we intend to work with everybody who is interested to improve it. At this point, the legislation speaks for itself. It is receiving broad bipartisan support, and I believe we can move it on to passage this year. Nothing we could do would help fight crime more and produce a better quality of justice in our courts over America than passage of this bill. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senators HARKIN, MCCONNELL, BUNNING, and GRAMS be added as original cosponsors of S. 3045, which I introduced earlier today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I also want to express my appreciation for legal counsel on the Judiciary Committee, Sean Costello, who is with me today, and my chief counsel, Ed Haden, for their support and the extraordinary work they have done in helping to prepare this bill for filing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I see my colleague from Kansas, Senator BROWNBACK, is here. I had the pleasure recently to be at a press conference with him, which he arranged. He had written a letter to a number of businesses, which I joined. Senator TIM HUTCHINSON and JOE LIEBERMAN also signed that letter. We asked them to consider whether or not they ought to continue to sell video games rated ``M,'' for mature audiences, to young people without some control. In fact, Sears and Montgomery Ward said they would not sell them anymore. They didn't want them in their stores. Wasn't that a good response? Kmart and Wal-Mart said they are not going to sell to minors without an adult or parent present. We believe that was a good corporate response. 
   I appreciate the leadership of the Senator from Kansas and his hearing, subsequent to that press conference, with a lot of the manufacturers of this product. I understand, from what I have seen, he was particularly skillful in raising the issues and holding these producers of this product to account and challenging businesses and corporate leadership to be more responsible because we now have a conclusive statement from the American Medical Association and half a dozen other groups that this kind of violent entertainment and video games have the capability of harming young people and leading them on to violence. That is bad for them and our country. 
   I thank the Senator from Kansas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise this morning to comment on the extraordinary and wonderful life of my friend and our colleague, PAUL COVERDELL of Georgia. While my abilities are unequal to this task, I believe I must try, not because my mere comments will add the slightest glimmer of luster to his sterling legacy but because it is important for me and those living to contemplate his exemplary character, ways of working, positive spirit, courage, and enthusiasm. 
   The one thing I want to remember most about PAUL is that quick, genuine, and, at times, child-like smile he had. It seemed a bit whimsical, sometimes a bit tired, a bit resigned, at first glance; but on closer observation, that smile was always full of understanding, compassion, and insight into the difficulties we face. PAUL's smile was never silly or false but frequent, wise, encompassing, and in empathy and comprehension for our frailties, completely knowing our weaknesses and encapsulating the precariousness of our human and political condition. Yes, it was fresh and child-like and frequently given; yet in that smile was great strength. There was a kind of understanding there that was born of experience, study, insight, and concern. Moreover, because it was founded on an honest appreciation of our present condition in this life, its warmth, its humanity never failed to inspire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on rollcall vote 230, I voted no. It was my intention to vote yea. Therefore, I ask unanimous consent that I be permitted to change my vote since it will in no way change the outcome of the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following nomination on the Executive Calendar: No. 624, Norman Y. Mineta, to be Secretary of Commerce. 
   I further ask unanimous consent the nomination be confirmed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9 a.m. on Friday, July 21. I further ask consent that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of a conference report to accompany H.R. 4810, the reconciliation bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, when the Senate convenes at 9 a.m., the Senate will immediately resume debate on the reconciliation conference report. Under the order, there are 30 minutes of debate remaining, with a vote to occur at approximately 9:30 a.m. The leader has announced that the 9:30 a.m. vote will be the only vote of the day. 
   Following the vote, the Senate will begin consideration of the energy and water appropriations bill. Amendments will be in order, and those Senators who intend to offer amendments to the bill should contact the bill managers as soon as possible. Any votes ordered with respect to the energy and water appropriations bill will be stacked to occur at a time to be determined Monday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 10:24 p.m., adjourned until Friday, July 21, 2000, at 9 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this amendment will provide $500,000, for Satsuma Orange research at Auburn University in Alabama. These funds will be used to conduct research on developing technologies that reduce freeze damage, necessary for consistent production and industry expansion for the Satsuma Orange in the United States. 
   These funds will be used specifically for studies to reduce damage by fall and winter freezes suffered by the Satsuma Orange trees; studies evaluating micro sprinkler irrigation systems as a means of protecting the crop against freezes; evaluations for cold hardiness, cropping, harvest time, and fruit quality; and studies to determine critical temperatures that kill the crop and the factors that affect cold hardiness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, the Marriage Tax Relief Act that passed in the Senate previously and that has now come back to us from conference is a piece of legislation of historic importance. I would like to share a few thoughts with this body concerning why I think it is so important. 
   Not long ago a Harvard president wrote a book about the beginning of our Republic--the first 150 years. He said every piece of legislation that was considered and passed was debated on the principle of whether or not it would make the American people better as individual people, as human beings. It would encourage their self-reliance, their discipline, and their work ethic. It would encourage them to educate themselves and their families. It would make them more law abiding. 
   We know that public policy does, indeed, affect social policy and that actions have consequences. We know that a tax is a penalty. A tax is a detriment. When you tax something, you get less of it. In fact, that is why we tax cigarettes and beer more than we do food and medicine. We believe you can reduce certain activities to some degree by a tax. We now know if you subsidize an event, you get more of it. 
   Those are principles that I think are undisputed. How much I don't know. How much it affects any one single event in the life of a nation I don't know. But when you have over 200 million people making thousands and thousands and hundreds of thousands of decisions every day, every week, and every month of the year, penalties on one type of decisionmaking and a subsidy on another type of decisionmaking can affect what happens. 
   We are in the position that this great Nation through inadvertence, I suppose, has created a system that actually penalizes marriage. It, indeed, can be said to subsidize divorce. 
   I know a friend who got a divorce in January. I was told had they divorced in December it would have saved them $1,600 in tax dollars; the Federal Government would be prepared to subsidize that divorce. But had they married in December, it would have cost them on their tax return an additional $1,600; $1,600 is a lot of money. 
   The average family who pays this marriage tax penalty according to the best estimates pays around $1,400 more per year in taxes. That is $100 a month. That is real money for American families. 
   I want to say how excited I am that I believe we are on the verge of passing and sending to the President a bill that I trust he will feel quite comfortable signing--a bill to eliminate this bizarre penalty. 
   How much has it impacted marriage and families in America? I don't know. But we know this: Marriage and family is a good institution. It strengthens America through families. Traditions, stability, and education are ways of getting along in the world and transmitted partnerships occur. 
   People live longer who are married, for the most part. It is a good institution. It is the institution that raises our next generation, trains them, and prepares them for the world. 
   It is such a delight and a thrill to know that we will, tomorrow, I am quite confident, vote to eliminate this penalty on one of America's most valuable institutions, the family. What a good day that is going to be. I look forward to it. I am going to celebrate it when it is signed, as I am confident the President will do. We will have made a major step in this body to strengthening one of America's greatest institutions, and that is the family. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I join all of my colleagues, the staff of the Senate, the people of Georgia, citizens across America and around the world in morning the death of PAUL COVERDELL. 
   A thoroughly decent human being, he worked long and hard for what he thought was right. His career reflected the combination of principle and effective leadership that were characteristic of the way he did business. In his quite way, he managed to navigate some very difficult waters, keeping his equanimity and dignity intact, while gaining not only his goal, but the respect of all who associated with him. 
   Many in the Senate can claim friendships with him that extend to several decades. I met him only after he was elected to the Senate in 1992, but from the first, I was impressed by the same things his friends loved and admired in him--his kindness, his sense of humor, and his work ethic. A skilled legislator, he was often asked by the leadership to help move matters along. He did this in concert with colleagues on both sides of the aisle, always managing to ``disagree without being disagreeable.'' He was a public servant of the highest order. 
   His family, friends, staff, constituents, and colleagues certainly know what has been lost for we know what he was and what he did with his life. He will be missed in so many circles, but his influence and his good works will continue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Oklahoma for his comments. We celebrate the wonderful life of PAUL COVERDELL. I have a heavy heart, and I miss him. He was a great Senator. He contributed to this Nation in extraordinary ways. 
   He was a good friend to me, and a good friend to many others. 
   Yes, he was modest, self-effacing, encouraging, positive, and unifying--all of those things. But he was a courageous and positive leader for values that this Nation holds dear. He advocated them with such a winsome and effective way. We will miss him. I will miss him. 
   I say to the family and to Nancy particularly how sorry we are, and I express my sympathy. Maybe next week I will be better able to express my admiration and feelings for PAUL COVERDELL. I feel his loss deeply. So many of us do. I wanted to share those thoughts at this time. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to share a few thoughts on the marriage penalty tax and why I believe it is long past time to remove that tax from our body politic. 
   I would also like to share a few thoughts on my excitement and thrill about seeing the vote earlier today in  which we joined the overwhelming vote of the House of Representatives in eliminating the death tax. I believe it is a tax that causes an extraordinary burden on the American economy. It disrupts the small, closely-held businesses in America. It actually impedes smaller, growing, profitable businesses that are reaching the levels to compete with a Wal-Mart, or a Home Depot, or a Car Quest store--the companies that are doing so well locally. Then 10, 15, or 20 years down the road, bam, the leading stockholder dies and the corporation owes $6 million, $8 million, $10 million, $12 million, or $30 million in estate taxes. They either have to sell off their corporation, go into debt, or do whatever to pay it. People do not understand it. 
   If you start an auto parts store chain, and I know of an example of this, and build up to 27 stores, and the senior man who owns the business dies, they evaluate every single store, every part on every counter in those stores as if it is for sale. Say it is worth $50 million and the family has been investing, every day, all of the profits, basically in expanding the business, and the tax they owe, 55 percent, is on the entire value of the corporation? So where do they get the money? 
   What I know happened in a company as I am describing, the family faced a major decision. What did they decide to do? They sold out to Car Quest, a national corporation. There is nothing wrong with it, it is a fine company, but instead of being a competitor to Car Quest and Auto Zone and the other big dealers, they were out of business. The customers lost. The hometown distribution center in Alabama, where that company was, closed down and they had the Car Quest distribution center in another part of the State. 
   We are chopping off the heads of growing, vibrant corporations, just as they get to the point to compete with the big multinational and national corporations worth billions of dollars. We ought not to be doing that. It is not good public policy. It brings in very little money. I don't think we ought to be afraid about projections of how much it would cost. It is certainly not going to cost much in the next 10 years. At the rate of growth of this economy, we will be more than able to pay for it, and these numbers do not include the strength and aid the elimination of this tax will give to the American economy. 
   But the power to tax is a major power of our National Government. When you take money from individual American citizens, you take their wealth from them, as we do in the Government every day when we collect taxes. We take their autonomy, their freedom, their independence, and their power over the things they have earned. It is a diminishment of the strength and independence and autonomy of a citizen, when you increase taxes. It is an increase in the power, the strength, the domination of the Government who takes that tax. 
   When we have a time in this Nation that we are growing and vibrant and we have some extra money coming in, we have a choice. Are we going to keep taking that money or are we going to allow it to go back to the American people? I have seen the studies from the Office of Management and Budget that show, as a percentage of the total gross domestic product, the Government is taking more money today than at any time since the height of World War II. In 1992, when President Clinton took office, the percentage of the gross domestic product, the total of all goods and services produced in our Nation going to the Federal Government, was 17.6 percent. It is now hitting about 20.9 percent, the largest in history since the peak of World War II when we had a life-and-death struggle going on in the world. 
   I am, first of all, a supporter of tax cuts because I believe they restore and move us in the direction we ought to head, and that is our heritage as Americans. I spent some time recently in Europe. We were stunned to find the Europeans are paying, on average, 67 percent of their income to the government. Their economies are not nearly what ours is. We have much lower unemployment. The highest growth rate in gross domestic product in the world last year, among industrial nations, was the United States. 
   I remember reading an article in USA Today, and they interviewed three businessmen--one each from Germany, Japan, and England. They asked them why our economy was better than theirs. They said unanimously it is because the United States had less taxes, less regulation, and a greater commitment to the free 
   market. 
   I asked Chairman Alan Greenspan, the architect, many say, of this growth economy we are in, did he agree with that. He immediately looked up at me and he said: I absolutely agree with that. 
   So my concern, my drive, is not to try to see if I can get votes by promising people we are going to reduce their taxes. What I want to see is our Nation establish its heritage of private sector development and growth that is allowing us to lead the world, without doubt, economically, industrially, environmentally, and scientifically. When you talk to people in Europe, they take it as a given that our economy is stronger than theirs. They do not even discuss the subject. They try to say why they chose a different path, but they acknowledge the strength of our American economy. 
   I have one more prefatory statement. A tax is a penalty. A gift of money is a subsidy. Things you penalize, you get less of. Things you subsidize, you get more of. I think that is a fundamental law of human nature and of the economy, little to be disputed at this point. 
   So the next tax we need to be talking about is a tax on marriage. In this Nation, we impose a tax on the institution of marriage. As we all know, marriage is the cornerstone of strength in any society. We have seen study after study, ever since Dan Quayle raised the issue and Atlantic Monthly wrote an article that Dan Quayle was right, that the marriage breakup is damaging to our country. We have created a tax policy in this country that penalizes the institution of marriage and subsidizes singleness. 
   I had a staff person make a statement to me a couple of years ago that stunned me. She said: JEFF, you know we were divorced in January. We got a $1,600 improvement on our taxes by being divorced. If we had been smart enough to have divorced in December, we would have saved $1,600 both years. 
   We are in the business now in this country of paying people a tax bonus for divorce. We are causing them to suffer a tax penalty, on average of $1,400, if they get married. That is not good public policy. It is wrong. It is unfair. It should not continue. The President has indicated in his State of the Union Address it ought to be eliminated. I do not know who would be against that. It is time to end it now, and this Senate is going to do so. We are going to do it. I expect the President will sign it. I certainly hope so. 
   We have a surplus now of record proportions, of $1 trillion outside Social Security. I hear a number of my fellow Members of the Senate on the other side of the aisle who express concern if we have a few tax cuts that represent only a small part of the $1 trillion in the non-Social Security surplus we are going to have in the next 10 years, over $1 trillion in non-Social Security surplus applying every dime of the Social Security surplus to the Social Security fund, that somehow we are going to be disrupting and spending all that surplus. The tax cuts proposed are not going to use all of the surplus. 
   Not only will we pay down the debt with the Social Security surplus, we will be paying down debt with the other surplus we have, unless we go into a spending frenzy--which I reject. 
   We will also have money to expand spending programs. Our spending is up this year. But every time we get an estimate of the surplus we are looking at over the next decade, those estimates are higher than before. Our economy continues to be strong, and allowing people to keep their money will help keep the economy vibrant and strong. 
   I am excited about this vote we will be undertaking soon to eliminate the penalty on a very important institution in this country, and that is marriage. We did make progress 2 1/2 years ago, when we passed a child tax credit. A family of three would be able to receive $1,500, if their income is not too high, in tax rebates for those three children; over $100 a month that they can use for shoes, or to fix the muffler on the car, to buy a set of tires, let the child go to camp for the summer, or maybe take a vacation together. It is real money for real families. 
   Some think Government is not working if we allow families to spend the  money as they see fit; that we are somehow unconcerned about children; we are somehow unconcerned about families if we do not take the money from them and give it back to them and tell them how to spend it. That proves we are concerned? 
   I say baloney. If you respect American families and you respect American people, free and independent citizens that we are, you let them keep as much of the money you can, to spend as they wish, and they will use it wisely. 
   I am excited about this vote and this debate. I welcome it. The American people are going to understand the absolute insanity of a tax on the institution of marriage and reject it. We will allow the American people to keep some money that they can spend as they choose on the things that are important to them. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today on behalf of myself and Senators HATCH, LEAHY, THURMOND, TORRICELLI, and GRASSLEY, to introduce the Magistrate Judge Improvement Act of 2000. We are introducing this legislation because we believe that the modest reforms it seeks to make will greatly enhance the efficiencies and effectiveness of the Federal court system. In fact, the changes proposed by this legislation are based on recommendations made by the Judicial Conference and the Magistrate Judges Association, and this legislation has the strong support of both organizations. I do not believe that this legislation is controversial, and I encourage my colleagues to join in support of this initiative. 
   Over the years, Congress has repeatedly recognized the important role that magistrate judges have in helping to ensure the smooth and efficient functioning of the federal judicial system. For example, Congress has deemed it appropriate to allow magistrate judges to have final disposition authority, with the consent of the parties, in civil and misdemeanor cases pending before a district court. This was done, in part, to help federal district courts better manage their dockets by providing litigants with a viable alternative that they could utilize in the resolution of their claims. Despite the fact that magistrate judges have been asked to play a greater role in adjudicating cases that had traditionally been tried before district courts, magistrates have not been granted the same powers that district courts enjoy to enforce their oral and written orders or even to maintain order in their courtrooms. The Magistrate Judge Improvement Act of 2000 seeks to correct this imbalance, while also making additional reforms that will greatly enhance the efficiencies provided by magistrate courts. In particular, this legislation will make three important, and common-sense reforms. 
   First: The bill will grant magistrate judges limited contempt authority in criminal and civil cases. Under current law, magistrate judges do not have any contempt authority at all, and are required to certify any instances of improper behavior to a district court judge for resolution. This lack of authority undermines the magistrate judges ability to ensure compliance with their orders, and to control disorderly behavior in their courtroom. By giving magistrate judges contempt authority, Congress will greatly enhance their ability to assist district courts in the application of federal law. 
   Second: The bill will improve district court efficiency by empowering magistrate judges to handle all petty offense cases without the consent of the defendant. Current law already allows magistrate judges to try Class B misdemeanors charging a motor vehicle offense and all Class C misdemeanors and infractions without the consent of the defendant. By expanding this authority to encompass all Class B misdemeanors, instead of just those involving motor vehicle offenses, we will help reduce the dockets of the district courts as they will no longer be the primary forum for resolving a wide variety of relatively minor offenses. 
   Third: The bill will grant magistrate judges the ability to enter sentences of incarceration in juvenile misdemeanor cases. Under current law, magistrate judges are empowered to try and sentence juvenile defendants accused of Class B and Class C misdemeanor offenses; however, they are precluded from entering sentences of imprisonment. This is an unusual lack of authority because magistrates are empowered under current law to order the pretrial detention of juvenile defendants who have committed felonies. This legislation remedies this situation by granting magistrate judges the ability to enter minimal sentences of incarceration in the misdemeanor cases they adjudicate. In addition, the legislation extends the scope of magistrate judge authority to ensure that they are empowered to preside over all classes of misdemeanor offenses, including Class A misdemeanors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to call up amendment No. 3790. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to call up my amendment and to then debate it at a later time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would set this amendment aside, but I have to go. I could come back, I suppose. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 3790. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the debate on this amendment be set aside pending the time that Senator CAMPBELL and others would be here to debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I want to speak on another subject, so I will yield to the Senator from Illinois. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I had an amendment I did want to talk on tonight. I wanted to take 2 minutes on one other subject, to thank the distinguished floor leader of the bill. I could do one of those, if Senator BRYAN is ahead of me. I have been here longer than he has, I think. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Washington for his understanding and support, accepting an amendment I offered involving the Rosa Parks Museum in Montgomery, AL. Last year, about this time, Senator ABRAHAM and I submitted a bill to give a Congressional Gold Medal to Rosa Parks. That bill was passed in the Senate and the House, and the President presented it to her last summer in the Rotunda of the Capitol in a most remarkable ceremony. 
   Rosa Parks, as most people know, was a native of Alabama, Tuskegee. She moved to Montgomery. She was a seamstress. She was riding on a bus one day, the bus was full and she was tired, and simply because of the color of her skin she was asked to go to the back of the bus and she refused and was arrested. That arrest commenced the Montgomery Alabama bus boycott over that rule, leading to a Federal court lawsuit that went to the Supreme Court, in which the Supreme Court held that kind of segregated public transportation was not legal and could not continue. 
   The leader of that boycott turned out to be a young minister at Dexter Avenue Baptist Church by the name of Martin Luther King, Jr. The Federal judge who originally heard the case was Frank M. Johnson, Jr., one of the great Federal judges in civil rights in American history, as far as I am concerned. Fred Gray was an attorney involved. Mr. Fred Gray, one of the first black attorneys in Montgomery, told the story in his book ``Bus Ride To Justice.'' How little did they know that the events they started on that day in 1955 would commence a movement that has reverberated, not only in Montgomery, in Alabama, but throughout the United States and, in fact, throughout the world, 
   to a claim for rights and freedom and equality--great ideals. 
   Troy State University in Montgomery, a 3,000-student university, is building a museum and library on the very spot of this arrest. These funds will help create in that building a museum to Rosa Parks with an interactive video friendly to visitors and children about the story of what happened on that day and the importance of it. 
   I thank the distinguished Senator from Washington for supporting us in this effort. 
   I see Senator BRYAN. Mr. President, I say to him, I had 15 minutes on an amendment I called up earlier. Would it be all right for me to go ahead? I have a time crisis. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I offer amendment No. 3790 to the Interior appropriations bill. It will prevent the Secretary of the Interior from utilizing regulations that he has issued which would grant him the authority to approve class III casino gambling for Indian tribes in States throughout the United States in which class III gambling compacts between the State and a tribe have not been entered. 
   This amendment had been adopted in the past several years. An identical amendment was accepted last year by voice vote. The original cosponsors already this year are: Senators GRAHAM, REID, BAYH, GRAMS, ENZI, LUGAR, VOINOVICH, and INHOFE. Others are signing on. 
   Essentially, this amendment will prevent any 2001 funds allocated to the Department of the Interior from being spent on the publication of gaming procedures under the regulations found under part 291 of title 25 of the Code of Federal Regulations, which by now is probably 100,000 pages of regulations issued by the different Secretaries. 
   The intent of this funding restriction is to render these regulations inoperative next year only so the Department can take no action under the regulations until a case brought by the States of Alabama and Florida concerning the legality of these regulations is first resolved. In fact, Secretary Babbitt himself has expressed on numerous occasions his desire for the Alabama-Florida case to be decided first. 
   This amendment simply seeks to place the Secretary's public commitments in law to ensure that a Federal court has the opportunity to rule on the validity of these regulations prior to any departmental action next year. This is an important and timely amendment. I urge anyone who is concerned about local control and freedom and concerned about bureaucracy and the spread of gambling within this country to join me in support of this amendment. I want to take a moment to provide some background. 
   In April of 1999, Secretary Babbitt promulgated final regulations which empower him to resolve gambling controversies between federally recognized Indian tribes seeking to open a class III gambling operation--that is generally casinos--in a State which has not agreed with him to enter into a compact with the tribe or has not agreed to waive its 11th amendment right to exert sovereign immunity from suit. 
   As a result, tribes located within certain States, such as Alabama and Florida, would be able to use these regulations to obtain class III gambling facilities by negotiating directly with the Secretary of the Interior in Washington, DC, even if the people of the State itself remained opposed to the spread of such gambling or even if the types of gambling sought were illegal under State law. 
   In my opinion--and the Attorneys General Association of the United States has written us in opposition to this Babbitt rule and regulation and in support of this amendment--in my  opinion, these regulations turn the statutory system created under IGRA, the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, on its ear because they undercut a State's ability to negotiate with tribes and because it places the gambling decisions in the hands of an unelected bureaucrat who, as a matter of law, also happens to stand in a trust relationship with the Indian tribes, not an unbiased arbiter. 
   Not only do these regulations offend my notions of federalism, but they also promote an impermissible conflict of 
   interest between the tribes who are asking for a class III gambling license and the Secretary of the Interior who enjoys a special relationship with them. He is not a neutral arbitrator and was never given this power to arbitrate these acts by the Congress. I do not believe these regulations are a valid extension of his regulatory power. 
   It is breathtaking to me, in fact, and it is another example we in Congress are seeing of unelected, appointed officials, through the power of the Code of Federal Regulations, implanting policies that may be strongly opposed by a majority of citizens. Indeed, none of these people is elected. 
   My concerns about these gambling regulations were shared by the attorneys general of Alabama and Florida who filed a suit in Federal district court in Florida to challenge the validity. This lawsuit is currently working its way through a Federal court, and its resolution will provide an important initial reading as to whether these regulations are, in fact, legal and constitutional. Allow me to share some of the legal questions raised in the suits. 
   The States point out that the regulations effectively and improperly amend the Indian Gaming and Regulatory Act because:  
   ..... under IGRA, an Indian tribe is entitled to nothing other than an expectation that a State will negotiate in good faith. If an impasse is reached in good faith under the statute, the tribe has no alternative but to go back to the negotiating table and work out a deal. The rules significantly change this----  
   That is, the rules by Secretary Babbitt--  
   by removing any necessity for a finding that a State has failed to negotiate in good faith.  
   Further, the lawsuit points out:  
   The rules at issue here arrogate to the Secretary the power to decide factual and legal disputes between States and Indian tribes related to those rights. Pursuant to 25 U.S.C., section 2 and section 9, the Secretary of the Interior stands in a trust relationship to the Indian tribes of this Nation. The rules set up the Secretary, who is the tribes' trustee and therefore has an irreconcilable conflict of interest as the judge of these disputes--  
   Between a tribe and a State.  
   Therefore the rules, on their face, deny the States their due process and are invalid.  
   I think the concerns raised by the States are legitimate, that these rules are, in fact, seriously flawed. But do not take my word for it alone. In fact, even Secretary Babbitt admits that the test of legality should be passed first. 
   On October 12, 1999, the Secretary contacted Senator GORTON--who is managing this bill, and doing an excellent job of it in every way--and wrote him:  
   If (a) I determine that a Tribe is eligible for procedures under those regulations, (b) I approve procedures for that tribe, and (c) a State seeks judicial review of that decision, I will not publish the procedures in the Federal Register (a step that is required to make them effective) until a federal court has ruled on the lawfulness of my action.  
   Similarly, on June 14 of this year, the Secretary wrote Representative REGULA, the chairman of the House Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies, to further clarify his position on these regulations. He offered these thoughts:  
   I feel it is very important for the court to clarify and settle the Secretary's authority in this area. I anticipate that the court ruling in the Florida case will be favorable of the Secretary's authority to promulgate the regulation.  
   I disagree. But he goes on:  
   However the Department will defer from publishing the procedures in the Federal Register until a final judgment is issued in the Florida case, whether by the District Court or on appeal.  
   I have written the Secretary to ask him to write me a similar letter and have not yet heard from him. 
   All the amendment I am offering would do is to back up those public statements with the force of law, by ensuring that the Department could not spend funds to publish these procedures until a Federal appellate court had finally ruled on them. They would not seek to repeal the regulations, nor would they affect any existing compacts with States that wish to negotiate a compact with a tribe. 
   Personally, I would support an outright repeal of the regulations, but for now I am content to make the Secretary's own words binding because I believe that legal review of these regulations is needed and proper, and that he should not be allowed to take action until such time as a court has made a final ruling on the merits of these regulations, which are, indeed, breathtaking. 
   Make no mistake about it, it is an important issue in my State. As I speak, there are reports in the local papers that Alabama's lone federally recognized tribe--we have one tribe--is in the process of finalizing a deal with Harrods, which would result in the future construction of a casino on land operated within the small town of Wetumpka, AL, not far from Montgomery. 
   No Indians now live on this land. It is land they simply own. It is about 180 miles from the small tribe lands that exist there. Because Alabama has not entered into a compact with the tribe, to allow them to put a casino there, they have gone to the Secretary of the Interior and had him issue regulations that would give them the power to override the State of Alabama's decision not to have casinos anywhere in the State. 
   They have a power to compact. They have a power to say no on certain things. Alabama does have a dog track. The Indians 
   would be entitled to a dog track. They have bingo and related activities at the Indian tribal lands further to the south in the State, but they are not being allowed, under the State's negotiating position, to have a casino, a position that I would support. 
   Allow me to quote a few of the public comments that were made concerning this effort. The office of the Governor of Alabama, Governor Siegelman, has stated:  
   The governor is ``adamantly opposed'' to casino gambling in any form within the state and will take whatever steps are necessary to stop it.  
   That is a Democratic Governor. 
   Attorney General Pryor, a Republican, has stated that the Attorney General:  
   ..... will take whatever action necessary to prevent illegal gambling by any Indian tribe in the State of Alabama [because Attorney General Pryor] believes Babbitt has no authority to allow gambling by Indians in states where such gambling is prohibited by law.  
   Representatives EVERETT and RILEY oppose any future casino development. 
   Mayor Jo Glenn of Wetumpka--I think everybody in the city council has written me about it--has expressed her strong opposition to the presence of a casino in her town and wrote me:  
   Our infrastructure and police and fire departments could not cope with the burdens this type of activity would bring. The demand for greater social services that comes to areas around gambling facilities could not be adequately funded. Please once again convey to the Secretary our City's strong and adamant opposition to the establishment of an Indian Gambling facility here.  
   The Secretary does not have to live with the community whose nature is changed overnight by a major Harrods gambling facility. He does not live in that community. He is not elected. He is not answerable to anybody. Yet he thinks he has the power to tell them what they have to do and dramatically change the nature of that town and the lives of the people who live there. No, sir. 
   The Montgomery Advertiser wrote:  
   Direct Federal negotiations with tribes without State involvement would be an unjustifiably heavy handed imposition of authority on Alabama. The decision whether to allow gambling here is too significant a decision economically, politically, socially to be made in the absence of extensive State involvement. A casino in Wetumpka--not to mention the others that would undoubtedly follow in other parts of the State--has implications far too great to allow the critical decisions to be reached in Washington. Alabama has to have a hand in this high stakes game.  
   Unelected and unaccountable, the Secretary of the Interior has issued regulations that would completely change the nature of beautiful Wetumpka, a bedroom community to Montgomery, AL, and a historic community in its own right, against its will. It is a shocking and amazing event, in my view.  
   Clearly, the unmistakable sentiments of the Alabama public can be heard through these diverse voices. Not only would the regulations allow the tribe to obtain permission to engage in activity that is currently illegal under Alabama law, but the actual placement of the casino itself would result in the 
   destruction of an important archaeological site that is listed on both the National Register of Historic Places and the Alabama Historical Commission and the Alabama Preservation Alliance's list of historic ``Places in Peril.'' 
   The site that is most frequently mentioned for development is known as Hickory Ground, and it is an important historical site that served as the capital of the National Council of the Creek Indians, and was visited by Andrew Jackson, and which contains graves and other important subsurface features. 
   The site is, in fact, revered by other Creek Indian groups within the State and the Nation, as represented by the comments of Chief Erma Lois Davenport of the Star Clan of Muscogee Creeks in Goshen in Pike County who stated:  
   Developers' bulldozers should not be allowed to destroy the archaeological resources at the Creek site.  
   What is ironic about the choice of this site by the tribe is that the land was acquired by the tribe in 1980 in the name of historic preservation in an attempt to prevent the previous landowner from developing the site for commercial purposes. 
   In fact, the tribal owners of this site once wrote:  
   The property will serve as a valuable resource for the cultural enrichment of the Creek people. The site can serve as a place where classes of Creek culture may be held. The Creek people in Oklahoma have pride in heritage, and ties to original homeland can only be enhanced. There is still an existing Hickory Ground tribal town in Oklahoma. They will be pleased to know their home in Alabama is being preserved.  
   As you can see, should the tribe receive the ability to conduct class III gambling and construct a casino, Alabama will run the very real risk of losing an important part of its cultural heritage, as will Creek peoples throughout the country. 
   It is for these reasons I am offering this amendment. We should not allow these gaming regulations to go into effect until we have had a final ruling of the court. We should not allow the Secretary of Interior to promulgate these regulations when he has an untenable conflict of interest. I think it is appropriate to put a 1-year moratorium on it. 
   I am glad to have broad bipartisan support from Senators GRAHAM, REID, BAYH, GRAMS, INHOFE, VOINOVICH, LUGAR, and ENZI. 
   I ask unanimous consent that Senator MACK be added as a cosponsor of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. This is an important matter, Mr. President. I care about it. I believe it is important from a governmental point of view. The Chair understands, as a former Governor, the importance of protecting the interest of the State to make decisions the people of the State care about and not have them undermined or overruled by unelected bureaucrats in Washington. 
   I ask unanimous consent to print in the RECORD a letter to me from the Attorney General of the State of Florida, Robert Butterworth, and a letter from the Attorney General of the State of Alabama detailing eloquently their objections to the Babbitt regulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the amendment be made the pending amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-14-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-15-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I just have a minute and then I will yield to Senator CAMPBELL. 
   Mr. President, Alabama has one very small tribe of a few hundred people down at the south end of the State, near my home of Mobile. This land is around Montgomery, 150 miles further north, and there are no Indians living on it, where they want to build this casino. 
   The tribe is a group of the finest people I know. The chief tribal administrator, Eddie Tullis, is a long time friend of mine. I admire him. I admire what they have done. They have a bingo parlor that has been successful and is doing well. They have a motel and a restaurant that I eat at frequently. I love the people who are there. I care about them. Eddie Tullis recently said in the paper: JEFF is OK. He is just letting his morality get in the way of his good judgment. 
   I didn't know whether I should take that as a compliment, or what. 
   But my view is simply this: I don't think IGRA would have passed if the people in the Senate and the House thought that if a State said to the tribe: You can have horse racing, you can have dog racing, you can have bingo, as we have in Alabama, but we are not going to remove casino gambling from the State. 
   That is the question I have. 
   The Secretary of Interior is talking about stepping into this dispute and taking the position that he alone can decide what is done. 
   I care about the fine Indian people who are members of the Poarch Band in Atmore, AL. I have visited that area many times. I know quite a number of them personally. This isn't a personal thing. I think they understand it. It is matter of law. I was former Attorney General of the State of Alabama. I don't believe this is good policy. 
   We ought to pass this amendment. 
   I see Senator CAMPBELL, whom I respect highly. I know he wants to speak on the matter. 
   I yield to Senator CAMPBELL. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-16-20000712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, that is correct. First, we are asking today in this amendment basically what the Secretary has agreed to. He has agreed, to the House but not to us, that he would hold off until after the appeal, and this 1-year delay would cover the circumstance in which we are likely to have a new Secretary come January--whether President Bush or GORE is elected. This may not be binding on the new one. It will guarantee the status quo until we get a court ruling. 
   In light of that and the discussions I have had, I vitiate my request for the yeas and nays and ask for a voice vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I believe it is time for us to quit nibbling around the edges and to eliminate the estate tax on the American people. It is an abysmal tax. It is an unfair tax. It taxes people on money they have already made. They pay taxes on that money. Then, after that, they may invest and buy property. When they die, the tax man reaches in and grabs up to 55 percent of the value of that estate. That is an astounding fact. The Federal Government is taking 55 percent from people for this tax. A majority of the people who have an estate have to go through the estate tax computation. It is an unfair tax. 
   I believe we ought to reduce taxes across the board. I was a leader and fought hard for the $500-per-child tax credit for middle-income American families. I think that was one of the finest things we ever did. It provided $1,500 in extra money --without taxes--for a family of three. That is $100-plus a month they can spend on their children. I supported equality in making insurance premiums deductible that don't apply to small businesses. We fought for the capital gains tax reduction. People said that was a tax for the rich. When we reduced the capital gains tax, more people were willing to buy, sell, and trade properties, stocks, and other things, and they paid more taxes. Revenues to the Government went up. 
   We will talk about the marriage penalty. It is absolutely unjustifiable to raise taxes on a couple who are married by $1,400 a year--$100 a month for a man and woman who are out working. When they get married, they have to pay more in taxes than if they lived single. It pays a bonus, in effect, for people who get a divorce. That is not the kind of public policy we ought to have. I want us to remember that nearly 70 percent of the American people oppose this estate tax. They know it is unfair and it ought to be eliminated. 
   I want to share a few insights into this subject, other than discussing the matter in general. I have had the opportunity to meet with people from Alabama--environmental experts--who shared with me that with regard to landowners and timber owners, the estate tax is one of the single most damaging environmental pieces of legislation that exists. They tell me that routinely, people who inherit timber land and property who owe large amounts of taxes have to go out and prematurely clear-cut the timber on the property and sell it to pay the estate tax. When you are talking about a 55-percent tax, what are you going to do if you are the widow or child of a person who worked and saved all his life and did everything right? You have to sell off the property or cut the timber--every stick of it--to pay the tax man in Washington. That is not good for families and for the environment. 
   The estate tax hurts farmers. Farmers are particularly property wealthy, but cash poor. They take what they have and plow it back into their land and equipment. When they die, they may have a very large tax burden. Perhaps they are making only a small amount on each acre they farm, but they are making an income from it. But maybe the problem is the land now is next to an interstate and the land now would be good for a motel and they want to value it at $100,000 an acre. All of a sudden, they are multimillionaires, and the family is hit for $1 million or $2 million or $5 million in taxes. 
   The farmers in this country are universally opposed to this tax. Every farm organization in my State tells me every time I meet with them, ``Eliminate this estate tax, JEFF, whatever you do. That is rotten and we need to get rid of it.'' That is driving the issue before us today. 
   This tax savages small business. Every generation of farmers and small businesspeople have a debt. That business or family must 
   absorb the cost of paying the estate tax. No such tax falls on the large, mega corporations, the giant international, multinational corporations. They never die. They never pay this tax. But every generation of small business has to face it. Every generation of farmers has to face it. Is it any wonder why large paper companies can buy up thousands of acres of land that have to be sold off by farming families who can't afford to pay the taxes on it, and then they never pay that tax? This is not a good tax for this country. It is wrong for this country. It punishes middle America, those who have done the right things by saving and accumulating some wealth. 
   This kills off competition. I know the story of an autoparts company. The family had built up an autoparts dealership. They had maybe as many as 27 stores; they were all about the State. You could see those companies there and they were growing. All of a sudden, the father who owned the company died, and they were faced with a huge tax burden. What could they do? They could borrow millions of dollars to pay the tax man, they could sell off a large part of their stores but lose the advantages of scale that they were gaining by growing and getting competitive with bigger companies, or they could sell out. The company family had to make a decision. 
   They sold the company to a major national autoparts company, and everybody would recognize their name. That large company would never be faced with that kind of capital crisis as a result of a death. But the smaller companies are. Maybe, just maybe, that 27-store autoparts company would have continued to be able to grow. Maybe, just maybe, they would not have had to shut down the distribution center in the small town in Alabama, as they did when it sold out to the big corporation. Maybe they could have grown and become a competitor to the major parts company distributing in this country and provided more competition, driving down the price of autoparts for the average American citizen who is out to buy what he needs to fix his automobile, truck, or farm equipment. 
   I think this thing has to be viewed in the overall context of how it impacts economic growth and competition in this country. I believe we need to make sure that we have not ingrained in our law a tax that reaches down, and when you have a big bush, a big growth of a plant that is growing big, maybe it is a Wal-Mart or Kmart or maybe a Car Quest, and it is getting bigger and bigger, and this little plant grows up and starts competing with it and gets a little sunlight and starts getting bigger, all of a sudden, somebody comes out and cuts the top off of it. That is what the estate tax does; it cuts the top off of small businesses. It savages them and makes them less competitive against the international, multinational, mega corporations. It is an anticompetitive act. 
   I believe we ought to do something about it. It brings in less than 2 percent of the income to this country. I reject this demagogic attack that because somebody made $20 million, they are somehow evil and rich and ought to be made to pay a huge amount of tax on that money. Well, it was said the Republicans are for this bill. It is a Republican idea and that is all bad. But in the House, even though those Democratic Representatives were under the most intense pressure from their leadership to hang to the party line, 65 of them rejected the pressure and stood firm and voted to completely eliminate this tax. 
   I think that shows it is not limited to a Republican idea. It is a broad bipartisan idea that has the overwhelming support of the American people. We only do it on estates of $20 million or more. I want to talk about that directly. 
   They say: Well, for an estate of $75 million, we ought to have no sympathy for them. We ought not to feel any concern that the tax man takes 55 percent of it. What is 55 percent of $75 million? It is $40 million. Who says it is fair to take $40 million of an estate that somebody has worked all of their life to build up with after-tax money, and you are just going to rip it out and send it to Washington? I don't believe that is just. 
   Again, those are the kinds of companies and businesses that are getting competitive. They have the ability to compete in the marketplace. If we savage them, we are knocking down small industries and businesses that might be  competitive against the established order. 
   I think it is healthy for America to have growing companies worth $100 million or $150 million. I see no need to attack them when we don't attack Wal-Mart, Kmart, or GM, and Nestle's, and those kinds of companies. 
   Now we hear this talk about Social Security. Oh, yes, if we vote to eliminate the estate tax, we are going to oppose Social Security. 
   Let me tell you that we are going to protect Social Security. We are not going to allow Social Security to fail. We support it on this side of the aisle. We fought aggressively for a lockbox to lock up any Social Security surplus and guarantee it would not be spent by the big spenders that are here. The Democrats across the aisle opposed it and would not allow us to pass that bill. We set it aside anyway. But we don't have the protection to do it year after year as we would if we had passed a lockbox. 
   Why wouldn't they support that, if they like Social Security so much? The reason is they want more money to spend, spend, spend. That is the mentality--spend, spend, spend; ask for more votes for the people to whom you give money, and keep them in power year after year. By the way, we know more in Washington how to spend your money than you do. 
   Make no mistake, this is a classic case of taxes and who has the power. You give more money to the Federal Government and have less for yourself. Then the Government is empowered and you are diminished. 
   We ought to ask ourselves: How is it that the percentage of the total gross domestic product that goes to the Federal Government since President Clinton took over in 1992 has gone from 17.9 percent to 20.7 percent, higher than at the peak of World War II? 
   To say we can't conduct our business, take care of the needs of this country, and keep that tax rate from rising every year and the rising percentage of money going every year to Washington is a mistake. It is a fundamental choice that we as Americans have to make. Will we continue to allow the erosion of the independence, freedom, and autonomy of individual American citizens to be eroded in favor of a bloated and growing political Washington establishment? 
   Those are the choices we are dealing with. We ought to eliminate bad taxes. This estate tax is one of the worst. It costs an incredible amount for the Federal Government to collect. It costs an incredible amount for the families who have to go through the estate tax process to have to try to figure out ways to create trusts and so forth to minimize it. It is extremely painful to families. It brings in less than 2 percent of our national budget. Let's get rid of the tax. Let's not keep it anymore. Let us reject this cause that we are going to eliminate it for some but we are going to keep it on these other groups that make $20 million 
   because they are evil, and we can take 55 percent of their money; that is all right. I don't believe that is a legitimate principle on which to operate. 
   I believe the tax rate ought to be fair. We have increased our Federal maximum tax rate on the wealthy now to 39 percent of what they make. That is a high amount--39 percent of everything somebody makes at the margin. Why do we now need to reach into the grave and take out what they have accumulated after paying those taxes? 
   I think we are going to eliminate this tax sooner or later. The American people support it overwhelmingly. The farmers and the small business groups support the elimination. So do the American people. 
   I would like to express my appreciation to Senator JON KYL for his leadership in consistently, effectively, and brilliantly promoting this legislation from the beginning. 
   We are at a point where we are going to bring it up for a vote. We had to have cloture to get it here. I appreciate that the majority leader has favored that. I look forward to hearing the Senator from Arizona's remarks at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise for the purpose of engaging the chairman of the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, Committee on Armed Services to discuss a matter of some great interest relating to an Army installation located in my State. As the chairman knows, the Redstone Arsenal is located in Alabama, near the city of Huntsville. Although Redstone is not an arsenal in the traditional sense, there are certain provisions of Title III, Subtitle D, Sections 331 and 332 of the bill that I understand will apply to Redstone Arsenal. Specifically, the provision of the bill which would codify the ARMS Act and its facility use contracts and in-kind consideration provisions, and the provision on Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence that would allow the government owned, government operated industrial facilities to pursue partnerships and arrangements with private sector entities to more fully utilize the plant and equipment at these facilities. In my own state there is interest of at least one private sector entity currently doing business on Redstone Arsenal with others to follow: 
   By using the Facilities Use and In-Kind Consideration provisions of ARMS, the Logistics Support Facility has been able to establish a presence on Redstone Arsenal. Using these innovative approaches, the Logistical Support Facility has been able to utilize existing Army facilities that might otherwise have been deemed to be excess. This is certainly a win-win situation for both the company and the U.S. Army: a win for the LSF which gets facilities that are close to their customer--the U.S. Army, and a win for Redstone Arsenal, which receives consideration for the use of an otherwise empty facility which it might otherwise have to pay to maintain or demolish. 
   Am I correct in my belief that Section 332 will allow the Logistical Support Facility and other similarly situated operations to operate on Redstone Arsenal? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I know the Senator has been involved in this. I am excited so many others are involved with the possibility that we can have a detailed map of the human genome through the identification of the 3 billion nucleotide basis that make up the human genome, helping to cure diseases. 
   It is an exciting time. This Congress has played an important role. I know Dr. Charles DeLisi has played a key role. I know Senator DOMENICI, perhaps more than any other official in government, saw the possibilities of this several years ago, and used the power and leverage he had to make it a governmental project of the highest priority. I know he cares about it. 
   Would the Senator share with the Senate his insight as to where we are in the human genome at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I love to hear the story Senator DOMENICI tells about helping to make this human genome project a reality. He shared it with me some time ago. It is one of those success stories we can feel good about. It does provide opportunities for health improvement in America in an extraordinary way. 
   We heard recently remarks by the head of the National Cancer Institute who described one form of leukemia that had been diagnosed, and that certain types of treatments cured 60 percent of the leukemias and 40 percent were not cured; they didn't know why. But after the human genome study, they found out there were actually two different kinds of leukemias, and the treatment served one and not another. 
   A lot of good breakthroughs are on the horizon, I am convinced. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I will share a few remarks at this time about the rise in gasoline prices that are impacting American families. I recently pumped the gas at a gas station in Alabama. I talked to a lot of people. I talked to a young lady who commuted 50 miles plus, every day, to go to college. She talked to me about working part-time and going to college, how much the gasoline prices were eating  into her weekly budget, and what she was trying to do to keep those prices down. 
   It does impact Americans. Gasoline increases hurt our Nation's productivity. It is a transfer of wealth that could be spent on computers, education, better equipment, shoes, food, housing, that has to be spent on a substance for which we previously had paid less. That is a diminishment of our national wealth. It is important and should not be treated lightly. 
   Over a year ago, we had gasoline in many States, depending on the amount of tax those States imposed, selling at close to $1 a gallon. 
   Senator HUTCHISON noted most of our gasoline comes from foreign sources. In fact, the Energy Information Agency reports that we are buying 56 percent of our oil on the world market. 
   Just last year, we were buying oil at $10 a barrel, transporting it across the ocean, refining it, shipping it to gasoline stations and 7-11 type stores, for sale all over America. One could go down to a gas station and buy that gasoline for around $1 a gallon, and 40 cents of that dollar was taxes. So the gas was actually 60 cents a gallon. 
   People say the oil companies are all evil and horrible, but I think those numbers are pretty good. Madam President, 24 hours a day at virtually any town intersection in America, anyone could buy gasoline, if we take the tax off, for around 60 cents a gallon. That is a remarkable achievement. Go to the same gas station and buy a bottle of water; you will probably pay $3 or more a gallon. The little bottles of water cost 70, 80, 90 cents a bottle. Still there has been a remarkable increase in gasoline prices over the last 12 months. 
   How did we go from $1 to $1.50, $1.60, $1.70, $1.80, and even $2 a gallon for gasoline? What happened? How did it happen? If we are going to set good policy, we ought to ask ourselves that question. 
   The main issue is that OPEC wanted more money. The oil-producing group, the cartel, so to speak--Middle East countries including Saudi Arabia along with Venezuela, and others --that overwhelmingly supply the oil to meet world demand, got together and decided they wanted more money. They made a political decision they were going to do certain things, as Senator DOMENICI said, to drive up the price of gasoline. The world economy was coming up, so Asia was using more gasoline, other nations were using more gasoline. So they simply quit producing as much. They reduced their production, and they didn't cheat on one another. It actually worked. They created a worldwide shortage. 
   The price for a barrel of gasoline, at $11 a year or so ago, rose to over $30 a barrel. It hovers around $30 a barrel now and is more than double today what it was last year at this time. That has driven up the cost of gasoline. 
   First, we have to understand that. In addition, we are now in a summer vacation time cycle. People take their trips. We use more gasoline in the summer than at any other time. That is another complication. Increased demand creates upward price pressure. 
   There have been problems with pipelines, and I don't dispute that. Gasoline companies, pipeline companies, the distributors, and the people who actually run the gasoline stations, set the prices as they choose, some of those businesses are catching this rise and perhaps trying to make a few extra cents. It does not surprise me that is the case. 
   Fundamentally, we have a shortage of supply in this world. The OPEC nations have done that through political action. It is very serious for our economy. 
   There will be a negative impact on our Nation. 
   How did that happen? When political activities occur, you can only respond, basically, politically. It seems to me, this administration has not been alert at all to the problems we are facing. The Clinton-Gore administration has not understood energy policy. It has effected a series of small steps, really no-growth extremist steps, that have debilitated our own American oil and gas industry, leaving us more vulnerable to a determined OPEC cartel that demands higher prices. That is basically what happened to us. 
   How are we going to defeat that? It is going to really take political action to use our power against it. Frankly, there are some people in this country--most people who are sophisticated know this--who believe we ought to have higher gas prices. That is the Clinton-Gore Administration's policy for America. They believe if gasoline prices go up, we will drive less, we will buy their kind of small cars, windmills will become more popular, solar panels will be more popular, and that kind of thing will happen. They believe we ought to have higher energy prices. 
   I believe we ought to support alternative energy sources, but I do not believe we ought to be taxing American people to encourage them to alter their lifestyles, taking money out of their pockets, making them pay more money for gasoline for these agendas. I am concerned about that. 
   With regard to how it is impacting America, I think it is a fairly simple matter. What is really happening in this country is we are paying 20 cents, 30 cents, 40 cents more a gallon because of OPEC price increases. That is, in effect, a tax on American consumers by OPEC. In effect, when you go to the gasoline station and you buy a gallon of gas, if it is 10 cents, 20 cents, 30 cents, 40 cents more because of their prices they are charging, we are paying them that much more. It is not an economic thing; it is done by their political monopoly cartel power because of our failure to produce energy domestically. 
   We need to do better to produce more energy in this country. I have to say we have a policy in our Nation, by this administration, that is contrary to that idea. For example, if we are going to increase energy production in America, we need to promote production and exploration. One of the ways we could do this is to open up areas of federal land with proven oil reserves. 
   We have, in Alaska, an ANWR region with huge supplies of oil. In fact, that region of Alaska, is about the size of the State of North Carolina, and the size of the area where the oil would be produced is about the size of Dulles airfield. It is a very small area, but within that small area they can produce huge reserves of oil. This administration has steadfastly, through vetoes, refused to allow oil production there even though a majority of this Senate has voted for it, as I recall. They do not dare because they think it might have some environmental impact. 
   Experience shows that today's oil and gas production technology has a minimal negative environmental impact and in ANWR it affects a tiny area. So they have taken that source of oil--oil which could help us compete effectively in the world and stop the transfer of our wealth to Saudi Arabia and give us greater bargaining power--off the table. 
   There are huge reserves of natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico--huge reserves. Natural gas is one of the cleanest burning fuels we have. Much of our electricity generation is being transferred from coal and other fuels to natural gas because it burns so much cleaner and it is relatively inexpensive. Vice President GORE, in his speeches in New Hampshire during the primary campaign, said that not only did he oppose any further drilling for natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico, but he wanted to cut back on those leases already approved for drilling. I think that is an extremist position. They drill for gas right within the Mobile Bay, my home town. It is a clean substance, compared to oil. Even if it leaks, it evaporates rapidly. It doesn't have the sludge that oil does. 
   To stop production of gas in the Gulf of Mexico is an extremist position and one which will make us more vulnerable to Saudi Arabia and OPEC. It is not acceptable. 
   This administration refuses to allow production of oil in the Rocky Mountain area where as much as 60 percent of the land is owned by the Federal Government. They virtually shut off drilling in those areas. 
   There has been growing interest in coalbed methane production, in which you can drill a well into coal seams and bring out methane gas, a very clean burning gas. New technology has made the production of this clean fuel economically viable, but through environmental regulations which even the EPA does not support, this fledgling energy production source is at risk. 
   Finally, this administration has steadfastly opposed the use of nuclear power, which Senator DOMENICI mentioned. They refuse to allow us to store waste nuclear fuel, spent uranium fuel  rods, in a remote desert tunnel in Nevada, where we used to blow up atom bombs on the surface. It ought to be done. By refusing to allow spent fuel to be safely stored, it compromises our ability to produce more of our energy by nuclear power which produces absolutely zero air pollution. It is a nonpolluting source of power. 
   France already generates 80 percent of their power by nuclear power. Japan is moving in that direction. We have to realize we need to do more with nuclear power. In fact, in this country, over 20 percent of our power comes from nuclear. But we have not ordered and brought on-line a new plant in over 20 years. 
   Those are the actions which must be done be done. The policies this administration support are wrong, the consequence of these policies are clear: shortage of energy and higher prices. That is what will occur. That is what is occurring. I think we need strong leadership from this administration to deal with this problem now. 
   Madam President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to share some thoughts on the OSHA regulations, these ergonomic regulations. 
   First, I want to say that it is a worthy goal to improve safety and health in the workplace, but we ought to look at it carefully and we ought to, as a representative body of the people, look at the democratic aspect of this process and be prepared to examine these regulations before we authorize them to go forward and make sure they meet a scientific standard, and in addition to the extraordinary costs we know they will cause, we need to know that they will actually improve safety and health in the workplace. 
   Last year, before OSHA published its proposed ergonomic rules, Senator BOND introduced a bill, which I supported, prohibiting OSHA from publishing its final ergonomics standard until the National Academy of Sciences completes a congressionally mandated peer-review of all the scientific literature concerning ergonomics. 
   Unfortunately, a minority number of Senators in this body were able to block its consideration. This year, I am pleased to join with Senator ENZI, who has tenaciously and effectively pointed out the problems with this rule and why it ought to be delayed. 
   I just believe that we have to remember that experts have characterized this legislation as ``the costliest government job mandate since the founding of the United States.'' That is a matter that should give us all pause. 
   I believe it is important to base whatever regulations we have on sound science, and I don't believe that OSHA has done so. This is an important issue. I am going to talk about three cases in recent years in which OSHA has been found not to have based its regulations  on sound science or justifiable procedures. I do that because a lot of people think, well, if OSHA says it, it must be good. Somehow they are blessed with ``all-knowing wisdom.'' But you have already heard from Senators who pointed out a number of things that OSHA has done that are certainly not justifiable. It is not what I say to you today, but what the courts have said about this that is important. 
   Certainly, it is important to provide a safe environment. Ergonomics, though, are based upon decisions and recommendations made by ergonomists and/or engineers, and not physicians, and their medical theories have proven to be controversial. 
   OSHA has attempted to apply ergonomics in three legal cases that they litigated to judgment. In each instance, OSHA suffered major losses. These cases demonstrate the vast uncertainty surrounding these regulations and the science OSHA claims supports their implementation. Even the ``experts'' on ergonomics at OSHA admit there is a great deal of uncertainty in these regulations. 
   OSHA has litigated these claims under the ``general duty'' clause of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. This clause provides a general obligation on every business in America, all employers, to protect workers from ``recognized hazards'' of ``death or serious physical harm'' and functions as a catchall under which OSHA frequently attempts to expand its regulatory power. 
   One important aspect in the cases I will discuss is that OSHA had the burden of identifying hazardous job conditions. In the cases I am talking about, OSHA had to prove these were hazardous job conditions, and they have to show how they would be corrected. In the rule we are debating, the burden will be put on the employers to make these decisions. We are going to find out that OSHA could not do it. Yet they are going to demand that every employer in America--many of them small businesses--are to meet these kinds of standards. 
   No. 1, in the 1995 case, Secretary of Labor v. Beverly Enterprises, OSHA sought to prevent nursing home employees from lifting up residents in order to care for them and move them about the room. OSHA would have preferred carting the elderly residents about with mechanical hoists. 
   In a 31-day trial before a Federal administrative law judge, OSHA presented four expert witnesses, each with a Ph.D. in this field. These were some of the leading ergonomics theorists in the Nation, some of which had done extensive research on the practice of lifting in nursing homes. 
   The federal administrative law judge concluded ``There is no reliable epidemiological evidence establishing lifting as a cause of low back pain. Science has not been successful in showing when and under what circumstances lifting presents a significant risk of harm, none of the experts could say with reasonable medical certainty that any injury claimed by Beverly employees was caused by their job tasks.'' 
   With all of the resources of the federal government, including numerous experts, the Department of Labor and OSHA were not able to fulfill their obligation to ``define the hazard in such a way as to advise Beverly of its obligations and identify the conditions and practices over which Beverly may exercise control so as to reduce or eliminate the hazard.'' That is a direct quote from the judge. If a federal agency is unsuccessful, how are employers expected to meet this burden under the ergonomics rule. 
   The courts have also spoken in regards to the ``flawed'' science that is the basis for this proposed ergonomics rule. In the 1998 case Secretary of Labor v. Dayton Tire, OSHA launched an attack on 22 different manufacturing jobs in a single tire-manufacturing plant. 
   This is yet another case of the federal agency utilizing their large financial and personnel resources to prove their case. OSHA assigned three compliance personnel to a six-month inspection and investigation of the facility. At trial before the administrative law judge it called more than three dozen witnesses, including 31 employees, 4 doctors from the facility, 3 OSHA investigators, and 2 experts. 
   Thousands of man hours were spent in preparation for the trial, studying the jobs they claimed caused the injuries. The trial lasted 6 months, even though the company only called one witness. 
   The OSHA witnesses had extensive experience with ergonomics, with one having spent the last six years as an analyst for OSHA whose ``primary job'' was conducting ergonomic analysis. 
   OSHA's medical expert in the case was a university professor who was certified as an expert in ergonomics, who with the assistance of three other faculty members and six residents, had conducted extensive analysis of the medical records of the Dayton Tire employees who allegedly suffered from musculosketetal disorders. The Professor confessed during the trial that ``if he had been the treating physician, he would not have felt comfortable making a diagnosis of the conditions, nature and cause'' of those injuries. 
   This uncertainty is quite alarming coming from a man with expertise in the area. The fact that he conceded that his study did no more than ``present a red flag that something may be wrong'' at the plant concerned the judge. 
   The judge ruled and held that this method was ``not trustworthy'', ``scientifically valid'', or ``scientifically reliable'', stating that ``Conjectures that are probably wrong are of little use''. 
   Ultimately, the judge concluded that the expert's analysis ``failed to meet the minimal requirements for evidentiary reliability established in Daubert v. Merrel Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the 1993 Supreme Court decision that requires judges to exclude ``expert'' testimony that uses scientifically invalid methodology or reasoning. This standard is generally referred to as the ``junk science'' standard.'' 
   This testimony was rejected as not even valid testimony under the ``junk science'' doctrine. That is what OSHA was relying on in that case. 
   The fact that OSHA characterized the methods of their experts in the Dayton Tire as ``widely used and generally accepted'' among ergonomics experts, clearly shows that when scrutinized the science that is the basis of this ergonomics standard is fundamentally flawed. 
   In the 1997, Pepperidge Farm case, OSHA had its only opportunity to have an ergonomics case decided by the full Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. 
   The risks that OSHA identified in the case were ``capping'' cookies--employees lifted the top of a sandwich cookie from one assembly line and placed it on top of the bottom of the cookie on another assembly line in a repetitious fashion. 
   To abate these conditions, OSHA ordered the company to increase its staff, slow assembly line speeds, increase rest periods, or simply automate the entire operation. 
   Automation means job loss. People complain that when we automate we are losing jobs. One reason that is happening is these kinds of regulations that drive up the costs; and to make it more economic for a company to avoid these kinds of lawsuits and Federal complaints, they could just go on and create some new form of a machine that could do the work without people. 
   While the commission did accept some of the major premises of ergonomics, such as repetitive workplace motions causing worker injuries--I am sure under the circumstances that can happen; I would not dispute that--the commission ruled that OSHA failed to show that its proposed ergonomics measures were appropriate means of reducing musculoskeletal disorders purportedly caused by the worksites. 
   The Commission found that some ergonomic measures had been implemented by the company and that the additional measures proposed by the agency's expert ergonomists were not shown to be feasible and effective. 
   The decision is particularly damaging because OSHA had enlisted enormous resources and leading experts to show what the company should have done to avoid worker injury. Yet OSHA and its experts could not prove in open court what works, again raising the question of how businesses can make such determinations when OSHA can't. 
   In these three cases OSHA deployed hundreds of experts and millions of dollars to target what they considered to be particularly hazardous worksites.  But because of the flawed science the agency could not determine what if anything was wrong, or how to correct it. And the courts rejected their view. This is why business is concerned. 
   Some think just because they have the name OSHA, that they do everything right. They have been knocked down time and again by the courts. Businesses do not understand and do not have confidence that the 300 pages of these proposed regulations are going to apply fairly, and they do not believe it is scientifically based. I can understand their concerns. Employers should not be held to a standard that has consistently alluded the agency that seeks to regulate them. 
   I believe we should pass Senator ENZI's amendment and delay the ergonomics standards until the uncertainties regarding the science and implementation of this can be further explored. I don't know the answer. OSHA has, through these three cases, established that they don't have the answers either. Why don't we allow the National Academy of Sciences' study to be completed? Why don't we get opinions of the physicians and medical experts who can understand these issues before we rush to force these regulations into play? 
   That is what we should do. That is why I believe the amendment by Senator ENZI is the proper amendment. 
   Let's get the scientific basis before we act. 
   I thank the President. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I appreciate Senator MCCAIN for raising this important issue. I agree with him that is difficult to conceive that anyone would think that material that comes through the Internet which would not be allowed in the library in a book should be allowed to be in there electronically. It is frustrating to see the National Library Association, who I have observed over the years have a very radical view of absolutely no one telling a librarian what can be brought into a library. I don't think that is legitimate. Their salaries are paid by the taxpayers, and they receive money from the Federal Government. They don't have an absolute, unprotected right to select whatever they want in the library. It is not a healthy matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to share some thoughts tonight about a major development concerning the investigation involving the financing of the Vice President's 1996 reelection campaign. First, however, I would like to say that this matter should have been over some time ago, but the Attorney General declined to appoint an Independent Counsel. The Justice Department attorneys who were involved in the investigation of the campaign financing matter have recently testified before the Subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee, which is chaired by Senator SPECTER and of which I am a  member. In my opinion, these attorneys have not produced credible and justifiable reasons for the lack of an appointment of an Indpendent Counsel or for the extraordinary delays that have incurred in the campaign finance investigation. 
   My 15 years of experience as a prosecutor in the Department of Justice convince me that if the Department of Justice was not going to call for an outside prosecutor--an Independent Counsel--to investigate Vice President GORE, it had an imperative obligation to investigate the matter thoroughly, promptly, and fairly and to bring it to a conclusion. But the attorneys for the Department of Justice who have been involved in this matter for years did not do that. 
   Late this afternoon, the Associated Press and the New York Times reported that Robert Conrad, the new head of the Justice Department's Campaign Finance Task Force, has requested that Attorney General Reno appoint a ``special counsel.'' After the expiration of the Independent Counsel Statute, Attorney General Reno has the authority to appoint a special counsel to investigate Vice President GORE's involvement in the 1996 campaign fundraising matters. 
   This is the most recent in a long line of highly respected officials within and without the Department of Justice who have asked for a complete and independent investigation of various aspects of the Vice President's fundraising activities. Unfortunately, each and every previous request for an independent investigation has been denied. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I send a modification to the desk. I would like to share a few thoughts about this situation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the people of Colombia are good people. They maintained a democracy for a long time. There are 40 million people in Colombia. They are our fifth largest trading partner in Latin America. They are struggling with violence that has been going on for 40 years. There are at least two major Marxist-oriented guerrilla groups who control nearly 50 percent of the territory of Colombia. They have attempted repeatedly, through President Pastrana, to negotiate with these guerrillas and have had very little success. In fact, the guerrillas have taken advantage of the good auspices of the people of Colombia and President Pastrana, and even strengthened their hold on the territory and strengthened their antidemocratic activities. 
   There are paramilitary groups in the country also who are operating outside the law and are involved in drug trafficking. 
   The guerrilla organizations sustain themselves through the most active kidnapping in the world. Colombia has the highest number of kidnappings in the world. Its murder rate is probably the highest in the world. The guerrilla groups sell protection for drug traffickers, and that is how they make their money to maintain their existence. 
   I believe, as a former Federal prosecutor who has been involved in studying the drug issue and has prosecuted many cases in the district of Mobile, AL, involving quite a number of Colombian drug dealers and cartel members, we are going to have limited ability containing the drug problem in America through this money. But what we can do with this money and what is critical that we do with this money is strengthen the country of Colombia. 
   We need to say to them: We support you; we believe in your democracy. The 97-plus percent, as Senator BIDEN said, of the people in that country support their government, not these guerrilla organizations. They want peace, they want unification, they want economic growth, they want human rights, and they want a rule of law. That cannot be done and we cannot expect Colombia to stop drug trafficking in their nation if 40 percent of the territory is outside their control--50 percent perhaps. 
   I am distressed that this administration in public statements, in testimony before committee hearings, has refused to say: We support Colombia in their efforts against these guerrillas. They suggest their only motive is to provide money to help knock down drug production in Colombia. That is distressing to me. Ambassador Pickering testified and I cross-examined him. He said: Our emphasis is drugs. 
   That is not the basis of what we are doing. We want to help Colombia. We want Colombia to create a peaceful government to take control of its country. We want to encourage strong leadership, the kind of leadership that Abraham Lincoln provided when he unified this country. That is what needs to be done in Colombia to bring this matter to a conclusion once and for all. 
   If we do not do so, we are pouring new wine in old wine bottles. We are pouring money down a dangerous rat hole. 
   This amendment says: We support you, Colombia. We believe in you, Colombia. We explicitly endorse and support your efforts through peace negotiations or warfare, if necessary, to unify your country, to bring peace so you can then eliminate the drug trafficking that is occurring there. 
   Drug trafficking is a major problem in Colombia. It is our No. 1 supplier of cocaine. The cocaine production in Colombia has more than doubled in 5 years. Heroin is going up. Seventy percent of the heroin in the United States comes from Colombia. The main reason is the Government of Colombia does not control its territory. There are whole areas of territory outside the control of the government. We should support this country, and this amendment says so explicitly. 
   Mr. President, do I still have a minute under the agreement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have a further modified amendment consistent with the request of Senator LEAHY to strengthen the language that says our support for the Colombian Government would be conditioned upon their following defined standards of human rights, as Senator LEAHY placed in the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this is indeed an important Defense authorization bill. We have worked on it for a long time. Unfortunately, it is now being jeopardized by an attempt to shove further and further abortion rights, abortion entitlements forward, to be paid for by the American taxpayers. That is a principle we ought not to confront, in my view. 
   As I see it, there has sort of been a quasi, uneasy truce among those who disagree about abortion. We have said the right exists and people can choose it, but we are not requiring that the American taxpayers pay for it. People on both sides may like to see that changed in various directions, but fundamentally that is where we are. 
   We have an important defense bill being jeopardized by this approach that says that taxpayers have to have the Army, Navy, and Marine hospitals converted into abortion clinics. I do not believe that is popular with the service. I know it is not popular with the physicians in the service. In fact, I am disappointed to hear that the Secretary of Defense--I now hear from this floor--favors this amendment. 
   Once again, we have politicians and bureaucrats in the Department of Defense playing political and ideological games with the morale and esprit de corps of the men and women in the military. I do not appreciate that. 
   Every physician who was called upon previously, when there was a period in which these abortions were to be performed in military hospitals, rejected that. Not one military physician, who swore an oath to preserve life and who had character and integrity that led them to conclude they ought not to do these abortions, would do so. 
   So there is unanimous support. I do not know why the Secretary of Defense ought to be doing this. I did not know that it happened. I knew that a bureaucrat, an Under Secretary of Defense, had said it was a constitutional right. 
   It is not a constitutional right to have the taxpayers provide a place for someone to conduct an elective surgery. That is not a constitutional right. It is a constitutional right, according to the Supreme Court, that no State can pass laws to stop someone from going out and seeking an abortion and having it. Basically, that is the current state of the law by the U.S. Supreme Court. That is the right. 
   It is not a right to have it paid for by the American citizens, many of whom deeply believe it is wrong. Overwhelmingly, a majority--apparently all physicians in the military--do not want to do this. 
   Why are we forcing it? It is not good for military morale. It is not going to improve the self-image of the patriots who defend us every day. I feel strongly about that. I wish the Secretary of Defense had not come forward in that way. 
   What is the policy? What are we saying to our women in uniform today? The policy says: Join the service and you may be deployed. Most people may serve their whole career and never be deployed outside the United States but some are. So you may be deployed. We say to them: You have a full right to have an abortion, as any other American citizen. You have that right. We have regulations, implemented by the Clinton-Gore administration, to guarantee those rights. We say: But you must pay for that procedure. The taxpayers are not going to pay for it. If you are on foreign soil and there is not an American hospital nearby or an abortion clinic nearby, you will be given leave. You will be given free travel on military aircraft to come back to a place you think is appropriate to have your abortion. We are just not going to pay for it. We are not going to convert our hospitals, and we are not going to have our physicians who don't approve of this procedure be required to take training in and undertake that procedure. 
   That is the way it is. That is not a denial of constitutional rights. If it were, why don't we have a lawsuit and have the U.S. Supreme Court declare that is an unconstitutional policy? There is zero chance of having the Supreme Court declare the policy, as I have just stated it, unconstitutional. It is an absolutely bogus argument to say the current state of the law concerning abortions in military hospitals is unconstitutional. It is not so. It is inaccurate and wrong. It ought not to be said. If it is so, it will be reversed by the Supreme Court. But it will not be because it is not unconstitutional. 
   Someone suggested that this is oppressive to women. That is a very patronizing approach to women in the military. The women I know in the military are quite capable. They know how to make decisions. They are trained to make decisions. They are strong and capable. They are not going to be intimidated from taking a medical course they choose to take. It is not a question of asking permission of their commanding officer. They can have the abortion as they choose. If they want to be transported back to the United States on free travel, they have to ask for the free travel. They have to ask their commander, someone to give them the travel back on the aircraft. It is not begging the commanding officer for permission to have the abortion, which is a right protected by the Constitution. 
   It has been argued that we are here to place barriers in the way. No. The regulations guarantee the right of a woman in the military to have an abortion and guarantee the right to be transported back to a place where the abortion can be provided. It does not bar an abortion. How can daylight be turned to darkness in that way? 
   There are many deep beliefs on both sides of this issue. We need to be clear in how we think about it. If we think about it fairly, we will understand that the U.S. military guarantees and protects and will assist a woman to achieve an abortion. What we are saying is, we shall not be required to provide a hospital, doctors, and nurses to do so. I think that is a reasonable policy in this diverse world in which we live. We do not need to jeopardize the entire Defense bill by challenging the deeply held and honorable position of many Americans.  
   We need to reject this amendment. I think it is basically an attempt to shove, once again, the abortion barriers even further, to attempt to get around the Hyde amendment which flatly prohibits expenditure of Federal dollars to carry out abortions. The Hyde amendment is quite sane, quite reasonable, quite fair in light of the deeply held opinions of Americans. 
   Let us not go further. Let us reject the Murray amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to talk a little about this amendment tonight, in general terms, and talk a little more precisely about it in the morning. Therefore, I ask unanimous consent that there be time tomorrow for me to have approximately 30 minutes sometime during the day to speak on the amendment, unless some others would want more time on the other side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. That would be satisfactory to me, and such other accommodations we can make to make it better for the managers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am troubled by our efforts, which I support, to help the nation of Colombia. 
   I serve on the Narcotics Committee. I serve on the Armed Services Committee. Over quite a number of months, we have had testimony and hearings involving this issue. I have become quite concerned about the stability of the nation of Colombia. I believe it is a democracy, and it is one of the oldest in the Western Hemisphere. It is worthy of our support. 
   I believe Colombia is in a critical point in its history with over 50 percent of its territory--or at least over 40 or perhaps 50 percent of its territory--under the hands of insurgent forces. This great nation is in trouble. 
   I hope we can devise a way to effectively assist them in their efforts to preserve democracy and freedom, economic growth and prosperity, and safety and freedom for their people. 
   That is the intent of my amendment. It goes to an issue that I think is important. 
   This is the problem we are dealing with. The President, his State Department, and his representatives have testified and said repeatedly that our goal here is to reduce drugs in America and to save lives in America. 
   Our goal is to fight drug dealers in Colombia. Our goal is to help defoliate and destroy coca production in Colombia. The administration has steadfastly avoided and refused to say that this Nation, the United States of America, stands with the democratically-elected Government of Panama against two major Marxist organizations that seek to overthrow the Government of Colombia, and have actually occupied large portions of that nation. 
   It is baffling to me why this is so. I do not understand what it is. Maybe it is an effort to appease the hard left in this country. Maybe it is an effort to appease certain liberal Members of this Senate who just can't see giving money to fight a left-wing guerrilla group anywhere in the world. Indeed, I can't recall an instance in which this administration has ever given any money to support democratically-elected governments, or other kinds of governments, for that matter, against left-wing Marxist guerrillas. 
   These guerrilla groups have been involved in Colombia for many years. They have destabilized the country. They have undermined economic progress. They have provided cover and protection for drug dealers. They have in fact damaged Colombia substantially. 
   I believe it is time for us to encourage Colombia to stand up to these organizations, to retake this country, and to preserve democracy in the country. It is a serious matter, in my view. 
   Colombia has been an ally. We have encouraged them to enter into peace negotiations, and President Pastrana has tried his best to negotiate with these guerrilla groups. In fact, Colombia has given a piece of their territory, I am informed, the size of Senator LEAHY's State of Vermont to the guerrillas as a cease-fire zone, a safe zone in which they can operate without fear, and that the duly constituted Government of Colombia would not enter there and do something about it while they attempt to establish peace. But this concession, this appeasement to the guerrilla groups, has not appeased them. It has not caused them to be less violent or aggressive. But in fact it appears it has encouraged them in some ways. 
   I believe Colombia is at the point where they can achieve stability. I believe they can drive home, through a combination of diplomacy and military efforts to these insurgent forces, that war is not going to pay off, that war is a dead-end street for everyone, that they are willing to accept divergent views in their democracy, that they are willing to hear from the underlying concerns of the guerrilla groups. In fact, President Pastrana has said that over and over again. But fundamentally they have to send a message that they are willing to pay the price, that they are going to produce an army capable of putting these guerrillas on the defensive, and that they will take back their territory and unify their country. 
   There are also right-wing para-military groups in the country, a right-wing militia, that is involved in terrorist-type acts and violations of human rights. They also need to be defeated and disbanded before Colombia can be unified. There can be no higher goal than that, from my perspective, for our country at this critical point in time. 
   What are our goals? Why won't the President discuss them plainly? Our goal in Colombia is to produce regional stability. The collapse of Colombia can undermine nearby nations, whether Bolivia or Peru or other countries that border it. It can have a tremendous adverse effect on their stability. 
   Instability in Columbia, should it occur, would knock down and damage one of our strongest trading partners. Colombia has 40 million people. Those people trade with the United States to a heavy degree. It would be a tragedy if they were to sink into chaos and could not maintain a viable economy. We have a self-interest in that, but we have a real human interest in trying to make sure we utilize our abilities, our resources, to help that nation to right itself and take back its territory. 
   As I had occasion to say to President Pastrana recently: I want to see that we help. I want to help you strengthen your country. But I would like you to think about a great American. I would like you to think about Abraham Lincoln, who was faced with division of his country. Nearly 50 percent of his country had fallen under the hands of the Southern States. He had to make a big, tough decision. That decision was whether he was going to accede to that, was he going to allow the United  States to be divided. He decided no, and he rallied the American people. 
   In the course of it, as I told Senator BIDEN, at one point when we discussed it, he had the occasion to have my grandfather killed at Antietam, who fought for the South at that time. But that was a tough war. It was a tough decision. But in the long run, this country is better because we are unified today. 
   I do not believe we can achieve any lasting ability to reduce drugs being imported into this country from Colombia if Colombia cannot control its territory. How is it possible we can expect we will make any progress at all if Colombia cannot control nearly 50 percent of its territory? It boggles the mind. 
   I have been a Federal prosecutor for 15 years. Prosecuting drug cases was a big part of my work starting in the mid-1970s, through the 1980s and through the early 1990s. At one point, I chaired the committee in the Department of Justice on narcotics. I had briefings from everybody. During the time I was working on this issue, we believed and worked extraordinarily hard to achieve the end of drugs in America by stopping drug production in South America. Colombia, for well over 20 years, has been the primary source of cocaine for this country. They remain so. In fact, cocaine production in Colombia has exploded. It has more than doubled in the last 3 years. It is a dramatic increase. That is a concern of ours. 
   I believe we can, I believe Colombia can, make some progress in reducing that supply. My best judgment tells me that after years of experience and observation, this Nation is not going to solve its drug problem by getting other countries in South America to reduce their production. In fact, an ounce of cocaine sells in the United States for maybe $150. The cost of the coca leaf utilized to make that $150 product is about 30 cents. Farmers in South America are making a lot of money producing coca at 30 cents for those leaves. They could pay them $2, $3, $4, 10 times what they are paying now for coca leaf, and these farmers would yield to the temptation and produce coca. 
   I do not believe this market of illegal cocaine is going to be eliminated from our country by efforts to shut off production in South America. The reason countries need to shut off the production of cocaine--and Bolivia and Peru have made progress in 
   that regard--is to preserve the integrity of their own country. They do not want to allow illegal Mafia-type drug cartels to gain wealth and power to destabilize their countries in democracy and turn it into chaos and violence as has so often occurred. They have a sincere interest in achieving that goal, but that interest has to be understood to be primarily their own interest. 
   This administration refuses to talk about the real situation in Colombia. It refuses to be honest with the American people. Their foreign policy request was $1.6 billion. That has been approved in the House. This bill wisely reduces that, I believe, to a little less than $1 billion. They are requesting this much money to make a government that our Nation, the President, and the Secretary of State will not assert to be a country we support in their efforts against these guerrilla groups. I believe that is wrong. I think we need to be more clear eyed, more honest about our foreign policy. I believe that would be the healthy approach. It will help the American people to understand exactly what their money is being spent for. It will help them to understand what our goals are in the region. It will help them to understand whether or not we are achieving those goals. 
   If we do so correctly, we could utilize this money to inspire President Pastrana and the people of Colombia to rise up, take back their country, to preserve their democracy, take back their territory from those who don't believe in democratic elections, who kidnap, kill, protect drug dealers, who rob and steal. That is what is going on. 
   We can do something about it. We have an opportunity to utilize the wealth of this country to encourage that kind of end result. If we do so, it would be a magnificent thing for the country. To say we will spend $1 or $2 billion in Colombia, give it to a country we don't even support in their efforts to take back their territory, is typical of the kind of disingenuousness that has characterized this administration's foreign policy. It is not healthy. It should not be done. 
   Therefore, I have offered a simple amendment that will say one thing: Mr. President, you can spend this money, but you have to publicly state and assert and certify to this Congress that you support the duly elected Government of Colombia in their efforts against the Marxist, drug dealing insurgents who are bent on destroying the nation. 
   This is more important than many know. I thank the distinguished Senator from Kentucky for allowing me to have this time, and more than that, for his leadership on a foreign operations bill that protects the interests of the United States. It is frugal, as frugal can be in this day and age. He has done his best to contain excessive spending and has improved and reduced this spending bill. I appreciate his leadership. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President. It is with great pleasure that I rise today to pay tribute to Lieutenant Colonel David A. DeKeyser for his dedicated military service to our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If the Senator from West Virginia would give me 1 to 2 minutes before his remarks, I would be finished and glad to yield the floor to him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from West Virginia for his courtesy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, a few moments ago the Senator who is presiding over the Senate spoke on the floor, expressing some views about the nation of India. I believe the Senator raised a very important matter that is too little discussed in our Government, in our news media, and in this country. It seems to me every time I have heard the Senator speak on it, he makes perfectly good sense. 
   I believe the Senator is on the right track with a very important issue for our country. I simply want to say to the Senator, thank you for raising it. I believe it is a matter we need to discuss more. 
   India is soon to be the most populous nation in the world. It is a democracy. There is no reason for us to have an adversarial relationship with them. The CTBT issues can be overcome. It is time for us to rethink our policy in that area. 
   I thank the Senator for raising the issue. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have worked with Chairman WARNER for nearly a year on this bill. It is time to pass this bill. If we put this nongermane Internal Revenue Code amendment on it, it will be blue-slipped by the House as a revenue bill. It will come back like a rubber ball off the wall. 
   This is not what we are here for. This is not a campaign finance vote. It is a vote involving the defense of these United States of America. That is what we need to do. I support the chairman. I believe this is a good bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Foreign Relations Committee be discharged from consideration of S. Con. Res. 110, and that the Senate then proceed to its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the concurrent resolution and the preamble be agreed to, en bloc, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the concurrent resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 560, S. 484. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senators HELMS and BIDEN have an amendment at the desk, and I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to. 
   The amendment (No. 3171) was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill, as amended, be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, notwithstanding the adjournment of the Senate, committees have from 11 a.m. until 1 p.m. on Thursday, June 1, in order to file legislative matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand that the following bills are at the desk: H.R. 1291, H.R. 3591, H.R. 4051, and H.R. 4251. I ask for the first reading of each of these bills, and ask unanimous consent that it be in order to read the titles consecutively. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I object to further proceedings on these bills at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, May 25. I further ask that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. I further ask consent that the Senate then proceed to a period of morning business until 10:30 a.m., with Senators speaking for up to  5 minutes each, with the following exceptions: Senator BIDEN, or his designee, 9:30 a.m. to 10 a.m. and Senator THOMAS, or his designee, 10 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. On behalf of the majority leader, and for the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene at 9:30 a.m. on Thursday and be in a period of morning business until 10:30 a.m. Following morning business, the Senate will resume debate on the Mikulski amendment to the legislative branch appropriations bill for 10 minutes prior to a vote on the amendment. Following that vote, the Senate will immediately proceed to a vote on third reading of the bill. Therefore, Senators can expect two back-to-back votes at approximately 10:45 a.m. 
   I ask unanimous consent that after the votes the Senate return to a period of morning business for 1 hour with Senators ROBERTS and CLELAND in control of the time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, it is hoped that the Senate can consider the crop insurance conference report tomorrow afternoon. Therefore, Senators can expect votes throughout the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order, following the remarks of Senator LEAHY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I note that Senator LEAHY is not here. I believe he is not coming, so I renew my unanimous consent request to adjourn. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 5:20 p.m., adjourned until Thursday, May 25, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to use my time on two judicial nominations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have great respect for Senator MOYNIHAN and Senator SCHUMER. I know they have great affection and admiration for Mr. Lynch. In no way do I question his integrity. I do not question his legal ability. He is certainly a scholar and a person of intellect. 
   Except for two leaves of absence, he has been a law professor. The old rule must apply: The A students become professors; B students, judges; and C students make the money. Regardless, he has been a professor, worked on a few cases, and spent several years with the U.S. Attorney's Office prosecuting cases. By all accounts, he is a man of good personal character. 
   The problem I have with this nomination is that I have come to believe from his writing that he is, indeed, a judge who is an activist. There is only one opportunity for the people of this country to confront the question as to whether or not an individual nominated to be a judge will obtain a lifetime appointment. That is our role under the Constitution, to advise and consent to nominations of the President. The President has nominated Mr. Lynch. I think it is our duty, if we are not to be a potted plant or rubber stamp his record, his skill, his background, his philosophy, and see if we want to authorize him, for the rest of his life, to preside over cases, to interpret the law, to interpret the Constitution, and make major decisions in that regard. That is our question: Do we want to do that? 
   It would be bad to impose upon the people of New York or any other State any person who is not clearly committed to the judicial role. The judicial role is that a judge should require himself to follow the Constitution of the United States and the laws duly passed by the Congress of the United States. The Constitution is a contract. It was an instrument of agreement between the American people and the government when they formed it. They gave to the government certain limited powers. They reserved for themselves and for the States other powers. That is a fundamental principle. 
   I think our courts in recent years have done a little better. At one point, they were exceedingly activist. The leader of that activism crusade in the Federal courts was none other than Justice Brennan for whom Mr. Lynch clerked. Subsequent to that, he has written in the Columbia Law Review on two separate occasions. The Columbia Law Review is a prestigious law review and the Columbia Law School is a prestigious law school. One does not write for the Columbia Law Review without giving careful thought to each and every word he utilizes in that law review, even more so if he is a professor at that school. 
   In the course of writing these articles, Mr. Lynch made some statements that I think represent very serious indications of his philosophy and his willingness to be bound by the law and the Constitution as a judge. Take, for example, this 1984 article, ``Constitutional Law as Moral Philosophy'':  
   The Supreme Court, because it is free of immediate political pressures of the sort that press on those who must face the voters, is better placed to decide whether a proposed course of action that meets short-term political objectives is consistent with the fundamental moral values to which our society considers itself pledged.  
   That is a very risky, dangerous statement, a carefully written statement, words Mr. Lynch chose carefully. He says the Supreme Court, because it doesn't have to answer to the American people in elections, is better placed to decide a proposed course of action that meets short-term political objectives and is consistent with moral values which our society considers itself bound. 
   Our Constitution is deeply rooted in our moral order and heritage, but our Constitution is a contract; our Constitution is an agreement with the people. It has specific ideas and requirements in it that I expect a judge to abide by. 
   To show the danger in this philosophy, let me share the example of the death penalty. The eighth amendment prohibits cruel and unusual punishment. Justice Brennan, for whom Mr. Lynch clerked, declared that the death penalty was cruel and unusual and therefore it violates the eighth amendment to the Constitution. 
   I suggest that is bizarre because at the time the Constitution was adopted, every State had a death penalty. There are six or more references within the very document itself, the Constitution, to a death penalty. Yet he feels it violates some sort of contemporary standards of morality. Justice Brennan used his lifetime appointment as a judge to dissent on every single death penalty case, saying it violates the Constitution, while the Constitution contemplates and says you can take life with due process in several different places. 
   That is judicial activism. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I think Senator SCHUMER raises a good point. I never said he opposed the death penalty. What I was trying to point out is that judges, if they desire to impose their fundamental moral values on people when they don't get elected, can end up doing things like Justice Brennan did, for which, certainly, Mr. Lynch admires him. 
   I have another quote I think is even more clear, a more clear indication of Mr. Lynch's willingness to utilize personal opinions--justifying judges who want to use personal opinions instead of interpreting the law. He was talking about Justice Brennan. This was in 1997, just a few years ago:  
   Justice Brennan's belief that the Constitution must be given meaning for the present seems to me a simple necessity; his long and untiring labor to articulate the principles of fairness, liberty, and equality found in the Constitution--  
   Fairness, liberty, and equality sound a little bit like the French Revolution, words they used to chop off a lot of people's heads. Our Constitution is a document of restraint. But:  
   ..... in the way that he believed made most sense today.  
   Justice Brennan's belief that the Constitution must be given:  
   ..... meaning for the present in the way he believed made most sense today seems far more honest and honorable than the pretense that the meaning of those principles can be found in 18th- or 19th-century dictionaries.  
   In the course of my time on the Judiciary Committee, I have voted for well over 90 percent of the nominees, I suppose, that the President has submitted. This Senate has confirmed a large number of them. I suggest that this may be the most dramatic example of any nominee that we have had, that they have explicitly stated that a judge has the ability to ignore the meaning of the words that were put in the Constitution. In other words, he doesn't have to use the dictionary definition of words. He doesn't have to use dictionary definitions of words. He just goes to whatever the meaning of ``is,'' is, I suppose. 
   In other words, there is no constraint on a judge who will not adhere to the words himself and admit that he needs to be bound by the plain words in a statute or our Constitution. He puts down the philosophy that a judge has to show restraint. Even if he did not like the constitutional provision, even if he or she did not like the statute involved, he would be bound to enforce it. It is a fundamental matter of great importance. 
   Just as Professor VanAlstyn, speaking at a Federal court conference a number of years ago, said:  
   It is absolutely critical that we enforce this Constitution, the one that we have, the good and bad parts of it.  
   That is what law is all about, enforcement of law that is written. Without it, we do not have justice. Professor VanAlstyn says you do not respect the Constitution if you don't enforce its plain meaning. You say the Constitution is great; it is a living document. It is not; it is on paper. It is not living; it doesn't breathe. It is a contract with the people of America about how they are going to give power to people who govern them. It is a limited grant of power to the people who govern them. 
   I will say this. That is another dramatic statement of a judge's ability, according to Mr. Lynch, to redefine meanings of words and to line up contemporary events, as of today, so he can impose a ruling on the people that he believes is just and fitting with community standards and moral decencies and things of that nature. That is a very dangerous philosophy. It is not the philosophy of the mainstream law in America today. 
   It was advocated by and probably reached its high-water mark under Justice Brennan when he tried to declare the death penalty to be in violation of the U.S. Constitution, when the Constitution provided for the death penalty. That is big-time stuff, when a Justice on the Supreme Court is prepared to say something like that and dissented on every single death penalty case based on that 
   theory. 
   I suggest Mr. Lynch is a brilliant lawyer, a man of great skill, a lawyer/professor, and he knows what he means and he said what he meant when he wrote that. What else can we think? If that is so, then I believe we cannot be sure, Members of this Senate, that he would consider himself bound by the plain meaning of words, of statutes passed by this body or even more significant, not consider himself bound by the Constitution itself that was ratified by the American people to protect their liberties. 
   Remember, when we have a judge who believes in activism, it is at its most fundamental an antidemocratic act. It is an act that goes against democracy because we have a lifetime-appointed judge whose salary cannot be cut so long as he lives. He can stay on that bench as long as he lives. He is asserting for himself or herself the right to declare what he or she thinks is appropriate today. ``It may not have been what they thought when they wrote that old Constitution, but things have changed today. I think today the death penalty is unconstitutional.'' That kind of philosophy is a danger. It disrespects the Constitution. It undermines the Constitution and undermines democracy. 
   I wish I would be able to support Mr. Lynch. I supported the overwhelming majority of the nominees, some of them maybe even more liberal than Mr. Lynch, but I haven't had anything to indicate that or I would have probably opposed them. Some I have. 
   This document, these law review articles are extraordinarily troubling to me. I do not think it is a minor point. I think it is a big point. I know the Senator from New York, both Senators from New York, think highly of Mr. Lynch and I respect that. But based on what I have observed, I believe his written remarks indicate he is unwilling to be bound by the law. Therefore we should not impose him on the people of New York and the United States. 
   I see the Senator from New York might want to comment on that before I go to the next nominee? I have one more nominee I would like to comment on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. What is the time left on the Lynch nomination? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I note that Mr. Lynch's words are pretty explicit and leave little doubt. I am pleased to see before his hearing--talk about a death-bed conversion. His testimony sounds somewhat improved over the language here, but it does concern me when he dismisses concepts such as actually looking at dictionaries that refer to the time of the people who wrote the document and review words to see what they actually were intended to mean. 
   That is what a judge really ought to do, and Mr. Lynch dismisses that almost with contempt. We have to consider it awfully dangerous when a judge feels the principles of the Constitution of liberty, equality, and fairness are in the Constitution when that phrase is really not in the Constitution, and the danger of those words are they are great ideals, but they are general; they have no definitiveness, and they give a platform for a judge to leap off into different issues about which he may personally feel deeply and simply do so on the basis that it is fair or it is a question of equality: This is fairness so I will just rule this way. 
   We have preserved our Nation well by insisting that our judiciary remain faithful to the plain and simple words of the Constitution and the statutes involved. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will use what time I have remaining on the Lynch nomination for the Dyk nomination, and I will yield the floor to Senator SMITH who wants to speak. 
   Mr. Dyk has been nominated to the Federal circuit here in Washington. Mr. Dyk is a good lawyer, apparently with a good academic background, and has certain skills and abilities that I certainly do not dispute. I do not have anything against him personally, but I do have serious concerns about this court. I do not believe we need another judge on this court. 
   The Federal circuit is a court of limited jurisdiction. It handles patent cases and Merit Systems Protection Board cases, certain international trade cases, and certain interlocutory orders from district courts. It is a specialized court and does not get involved in too many generalized cases. 
   We have analyzed the caseload of this circuit. I serve on the Administrative Oversight and Courts Subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee with Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY, who is chairman. I have been a practicing prosecutor for 15 years in Federal court before Federal judges; that is where I spent my career. I know certain judges are overwhelmed with work, and I have observed others who may not be as overwhelmed with work. 
   I will go over some numbers that indicate to me without doubt that this circuit is the least worked circuit in America. It does not need another judge, and I will share this concept with fellow Members of the Senate. 
   They handle appeals in the Federal Circuit, appeals from other court cases and boards. In 1995, there were 1,847 appeals filed in the Federal Circuit. Four years later, in 1999, that number had fallen to 1,543 appeals, a 16-percent decline in cases filed. 
   Another way to look at the circuit is how many cases are terminated per judge. The Administrative Office of Courts provides a large statistical report. They analyze, by weighted case factors, judges and cases by circuits and districts and so forth. It is a bound volume. They report every year. The numbers are not to be argued with. 
   The Federal Circuit has by far the lowest number of dispositions per  judge. The Federal Circuit has 141 cases per judge terminated. There are 11 judges now on that circuit. As a matter of fact, those 141 cases were when the court had 10 judges. We now have 11 judges on that court, and we are talking about adding Mr. Dyk, who would be the 12th judge on that court, to take the numbers down even further. 
   The next closest circuit is a circuit that is also overstaffed--the D.C. Circuit. I have opposed nominees to the D.C. Circuit in Washington. Oddly enough, both the circuits that I believe are overstaffed and underworked are located in this city. The average case dispositions for a circuit judge in America are more than double that. Let me provide some examples. 
   The Third Circuit average number of terminations per judge is 312; the Fourth Circuit, 545; the Fifth Circuit, 668--that is four times what the Federal Circuit does--the Seventh Circuit, 352; Eighth Circuit, 440; Ninth Circuit, 455, the Tenth Circuit, 350; the Eleventh Circuit--my circuit, Florida, Alabama, and Georgia--820 cases, compared to 141. That is six times as many cases per judge in the Eleventh Circuit as in the Federal Circuit. 
   The taxpayers of this country need to give thought to whether or not we need to add a judge to this circuit. It is pretty obvious we ought to consider that. Terminations per judge on the Federal Circuit represent only 17 percent of the cases terminated by a judge on the Eleventh Circuit. 
   Senator GRASSLEY issued a report on March 30, 1999, ``On the Appropriate Allocation of Judgeships in the United States Court of Appeals.'' The report assessed the need to fill one vacancy on the Federal Circuit. The court already had 11 active judges of the 12 authorized. 
   The Federal Circuit also had five senior judges at that time. Senior judges contribute a lot to the workload. That is a pretty high number. Almost half as many judges are senior judges who come in on a less-work level. They don't handle the most important en banc cases, but they participate in drafting opinions. They have law clerks. Many of them do almost as many cases as an active judge. So they have five senior status judges. Maybe it is down to four now, but at that time there were five senior judges. 
   The Grassley report states:  
   In fact, the current status of the circuit actually supports the argument that the court could do its job with a smaller complement of 11 judges. As such, the case has not yet been made that the current vacancy should be filled.  
   That remains true today. The Federal circuit has 11 active judges now and 4 senior judges. 
   On the issue of the cost of a judgeship, people ask, how much does it cost to add another judge? Just add a judge and pay his salary, $140,000, $150,000 a year? That is not too bad. However, the actual cost of a Federal judge is $1 million annually. They have two, three law clerks, secretaries, office space, libraries, computers, travel budgets, and everything that goes with being a Federal appellate judge. It is an expensive process. That number is a legitimate number, 1 million bucks. 
   We have judges in this country who are working night and day, but this circuit is not one of them. Before we do not fill some of those vacancies, before we do not add new judges to some of those districts--and it is not that many, but some are really overworked--we ought to think about whether we ought to continue a judge where we don't need one. 
   The Grassley report also dealt with the problem of having more judges than you need, sort of a collegiality question. The report said:  
   Judge Tjoflat [chief judge at the Eleventh Circuit at one time] testified that some scholars maintain that a ``perfect'' appellate court size is about 7 to 9 judges, and when a court reaches 10 or 11 judges, ``you have an exponential increase in the tension on the court of the ability of the law not to be certain.'' Judges claimed that there is a marked decrease in collegiality when the appeals court is staffed with more than 11 or 12 judges. Chief Judge Posner of the Seventh Circuit thought that with 11 judges, the Seventh Circuit was ``at the limit of what a court ought to be'' in terms of size.  
   The Seventh Circuit had more than twice as many cases per judge as the Federal Circuit does today. 
   The Grassley report further stated there is a consistency cost with expanding courts:  
   Not only is there a loss in collegiality the larger a court becomes, there is also an increase in work required by the judges to maintain consistency in the law. Judge Wilkinson felt that more judges would not lighten the burdens of a court, but would actually aggravate these burdens further.  
   The Federal Circuit, to which this judge would like to be appointed--and it would be a good position to draw that big Federal judicial salary and have the lowest caseload in America --has the lowest terminations per judge of any circuit court of appeals. It has a 16-percent decrease in overall caseload, with a clear recommendation from the Grassley subcommittee report that there is not a need to add another judge to this circuit. 
   I suggest that we not approve this judge, not because he is not a good person but because we don't need to burden the taxpayers with $1 million a year for the rest of his life to serve on a court that doesn't need another judge. In fact, they could probably get by with two or three fewer judges than they have right now and still have the lowest caseload per judge in America. 
   We don't have money to throw away. People act as though a million dollars isn't much money. A million dollars is a lot of money where I came from. I think we ought to look at that and put our money where we have to have some judges. There are some of those areas. 
   I thank the Chair for the time to express my thoughts on the Dyk matter and yield the remainder of my time to Senator SMITH from New Hampshire. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will be. I want to talk some time tonight if it is not counted against other people's time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If it is not disrupting Senator WARNER's time, I want about 40 minutes, give or take 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will do my best. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have enjoyed hearing two great Senators tonight, Senator JOHN WARNER, who chairs our Armed Services Committee, and Senator CARL LEVIN, who is the ranking member on that committee. They are able patriots who are skilled advocates and who do a great job of presenting their viewpoints. 
   I have always said about Senator LEVIN that if I were in trouble, I would want him to defend me. I think we have a foreign policy situation that is in trouble, and he does a good job of defending it. 
   It is more than a legal question, however. It is a question of policy. It is a question of the commitment of American troops. It is a question of the wealth of the United States being committed to this area of the world. 
   I do believe our troops are doing a great job. Last year, I had the privilege, within 10 days of the end of the bombing in Kosovo, to travel there with Senator LEVIN and two other Senators. We toured that area. 
   I returned there, not too many weeks ago, for my second visit at Easter time. We had the privilege of meeting with troops and touring the area and celebrating Easter Sunrise Services with our troops there. 
   Our soldiers--men and women--are extraordinarily skilled. They are doing a great job for our country. They do what we ask of them. They have good morale. I will assure you that the morale of our soldiers is not going to be undermined if the Congress of the United States says: We are going to review this matter come next August or September or October--which is 
   probably when we would do it because I think that is Senator WARNER's and Senator BYRD's commitment; it would actually be next October, 17 months from now. 
   They are not going to have their morale hurt because we have not forgotten them. They are not going to have their morale hurt if the Members of the Senate are discussing what is going on there and evaluating the situation. That is a matter that strikes me as really not good to be said. I would dispute that. 
   The intervention and the whole commencement of this exercise in Kosovo has been a colossal failure of diplomacy and a colossal failure of foreign policy. That is my view of it. I do not claim to be a thorough foreign policy expert, but I have watched this matter from the beginning. A lot of people have not done so. We have gotten confused about what has happened. 
   Senator JOHN WARNER, time and time and time again, since this involvement in Kosovo began, has done his best to support the President, even when he had doubts about it. He supported the Secretary of Defense; he supported the Chief of Staff; he supported General Clark because he felt it was his duty to do so. I know he was uneasy about that. 
   But how long do we go? It has been a year now. We are talking about having a vote a year from now again to see whether or not we want to continue there. What is so dangerous about that? Why are people so afraid to have a debate and a vote? I do not understand that. 
   I think it is our duty, as Members of Congress, who represent the taxpayers of this country--who pay our salaries and pay the cost of that war effort that has come out of our defense budget--to confront this question and make some decisions about it. If anything, I believe we have been too lax. We have been too unwilling to confront the challenges that have occurred and too unwise about how to go about that. 
   So this Warner-Byrd amendment is a bipartisan amendment. It came out of the committee 23-3. That is the kind of vote we got in the committee. It has powerful support, broad bipartisan support. It is not extreme. It is not irrational. It is not going to cause NATO to collapse. 
   We have done our bit in Kosovo. Make no mistake about that. We have done our bit there. So the Congress has been patient. We have supported the President. He consistently misled the people of the United States and this Congress. 
   I remember upstairs, in the secret room, we had our briefings. And they started talking about this bombing. They said it might be over in 3 days; it might be over in 10 days. I remember one of our Senators asked: What if it is not? What if the bombing does not work? What do we do then? And they said: We believe it is going to work. I decided then if we did not have a plan better than that, we did not need to go into this operation. 
   But let me share what really happened. 
   Basically, what happened in this area, as I see it, is Milosevic started a nationalist campaign in Serbia and Yugoslavia that was very dangerous, horrible, unwise, that destabilized this whole area and helped lead to the tragedies that we have today. There is no mistaking that. 
   Remember now, though, before this bombing started we had 1,000-plus peacekeepers in Kosovo. We had some violence, periodic violence. This was with KLA guerrillas fighting, ostensibly, the Serb Government. 
   So we had a situation there which was definitely deteriorating in some ways. The Serb and KLA forces were sparring, but it was not out of control. We had 1,000 peacekeepers there. 
   We made a number of efforts to negotiate a peace agreement that could have provided for an orderly transition in that area to a more just society.  That was our goal and responsibility. I think it was a challenge that was difficult but could be met. 
   Not long ago, in the Old Senate Chamber, right off the Rotunda of this Capitol, we had Senator George Mitchell, who did the peace negotiations in Northern Ireland, as our speaker at the Majority Leader's Lecture Series. 
   He told us how he accomplished it in the face of the intractable forces that seemed to be at work. He said: There we kept talking. He said: I learned from the Senate that people can talk and talk and talk. And I would let them talk. They would talk and talk and talk. They would completely get everything out of their system. We would stay there into the night, day after day after day. Tensions began to go down. People began to think more clearly about the possibility they could work out their differences. 
   But that is not what happened here. I have often thought if we had had George Mitchell in Yugoslavia instead of the ``masters of the universe'' that we did have, who thought they could dictate a peace agreement and make it happen, we might have avoided this war. 
   The fact is, as the Economist Magazine said a few weeks ago, maybe it could not have been avoided, but it did not have to be started as soon as it did, and there was a chance it could have been avoided if we kept the negotiations going. I have no doubt about that. 
   Remember what happened. Our leadership demanded that the Serbs and the KLA--the Kosovars--come to Rambouillet, France, where we would begin to have a peace conference. We were just going to settle this thing, like a mama bringing two children together. We were just going to bring them together, and we were going to get together and settle this once and for all. 
   And as time went along, the President said: You are going to reach a peace agreement, or the United States is going to bomb you. NATO is going to bomb you. 
   They would not agree. They kept on fussing, and they could not reach the agreement. Things were really tense. Henry Kissinger referred to that as a reckless event; it is a dangerous, high-risk operation to risk everything on a Rambouillet peace conference under those circumstances. 
   I asked Secretary of Defense Cohen--and I serve on the Armed Services Committee--in the history of the United States, had he ever known of a circumstance in which the United States got two contesting, contending parties together and said, if you don't agree to the peace agreement I write up, we are going to bomb you? Of course he said no. This is unprecedented, in my observation, in the history of the world. 
   So we did that, and we undertook this reckless gamble, and we were just going to force these people to do it. You remember, even the Kosovars would not agree. They left the agreement, and then the Serbs were going to leave the agreement. Apparently the Americans told the Kosovars: You come back and sign this thing because we really will bomb these guys. If you will sign it, we will make them sign it. So they came back and the Kosovars signed, but the Serbs would not. 
   By the way, the agreement we were asking them to sign basically said we can send troops throughout Yugoslavia, anywhere we want to--NATO can send troops anywhere. 
   It is very difficult for any nation that had any respect for its sovereignty to agree to some of the things that were in that agreement. Regardless, they would not sign it. Days went by, time went by, and people were saying: You promised, Mr. President, you were going to bomb. You are not going to bomb. You can't be trusted. Your word was not good. 
   He was under investigation and had his credibility questioned severely right in this body by the American people. So it was a question of would he follow through on his worldwide public commitment to start a war. Of course, eventually, he did. He started to bomb. 
   I want to mention how that was conducted, but I will just say this about it. The Air Force general who conducted that war testified in a postwar congressional hearing in the Armed Services Committee, and I was there. I remember asking him--he was unhappy with the fact that he was not allowed to start the bombing aggressively, that he was dictated to targets he could go after. There were only certain limited targets, and it was a slow start. He opposed that privately. He was very aggressive, and he warned that that was not the way to do a war. 
   If you are going to get involved, you have to go with full force, aggressively at the beginning. We have learned that over the years in this country. But, oh, no, we had to get all 17 NATO nations to sign off on every target. And somebody would object, and they would object, and you could not do this target or that target, and only these limited targets so nobody would be injured, and we started off with this slow bombing campaign. 
   Now, 3 days after that, the big event happened. Remember, we have been told repeatedly that the reason this war commenced--and we have almost forgotten the true facts of the situation, but we were told we were commencing and carrying out this war to stop ethnic cleansing. There had not been ethnic cleansing until the bombing started. It was 3 days after the bombing started that Milosevic sent his troops south into 
   one of the most vicious displays of violence that I suppose anyone has ever seen against a basically defenseless people. They burned houses, ran people out, moved families and children. You saw them on TV. They were on wagons; they were walking; they were on mules and on horses, trying to survive in those camps. They ran them out. 
   I say to you, do not let anybody make the case that we had to bomb to stop that kind of ethnic cleansing. The ethnic cleansing started after we started the bombing--3 days. This effort with the NATO air campaign--what a blunder that was. 
   By the way, we also announced that in the conduct of this war we would never use ground troops. That gave Milosevic a serious basis for confidence that certain things would not happen. He would not be threatened by events by which he could otherwise have been threatened. We were unwilling to use troops. He didn't have to prepare certain defenses because we eliminated the possibility that ground troops would be used. 
   We were told this would be a joint air effort and we would have planes from other countries. Others did participate, but 75 percent of the actual combat missions were flown by U.S. pilots. In fact, it is a true statement to say that NATO meant to deploy the U.S. Air Force. They told our Air Force whom to bomb, when to bomb, and how to do it. They rejected our air commander's advice about how to conduct the war, and even General Clark's advice on many matters. 
   So I asked our Air Force commander did he oppose this and did he think it was wrong the way they started controlling the targets he thought should have been hit. He said, ``Yes.'' I asked him, ``Did this prolong the war?'' He said, ``Yes.'' I said, ``Did it cost innocent lives because they didn't follow your advice?'' He said, ``Yes, sir.'' Why? Because President Clinton and Schroder and Tony Blair were conducting a political war, not a real war, in many ways. 
   It took 78 days to complete this thing, resulting in the complete ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and extraordinary damage in Yugoslavia and in Kosovo and in areas surrounding there--a colossal disaster. How can anybody suggest otherwise? This was not a great victory, as some have tried to portray it. It was a disaster that, Lord knows, we should have done everything to avoid. As Henry Kissinger and others told us: If we get in there and deploy, it is going to be difficult to get out. We are going to be stuck. You do not want to be committed in the midst of these hostilities to a long-term occupation in Kosovo and those areas. You will find it difficult to get out. 
   That is exactly what happened. In addition to this, our relationship with Russia soured. Russia is a big-time world power. Russia had the opportunity to be our ally. But our relationship with Russia over the last number of years has deteriorated. If you think this war didn't have anything to do with it, you are mistaken. They were very upset about the way this was conducted. It was basically a NATO attack on a non-NATO nation which posed no real military threat to any other NATO nation. They didn't like that. They have an identity with the Serbs. So it made the Russians very unhappy.  
   Another nation that was very unhappy and with whom our relationship suffered was China. We, in the course of this, hit a Chinese embassy. They didn't like this from the beginning. They didn't like the idea of NATO attacking an independent sovereign nation. They opposed that and were paranoid about that. Then we hit their embassy, and that made it worse. 
   We were told we had to end this war to help the economic growth and prosperity in the Balkans. Well, let me ask you, does anybody believe this war has helped the economic condition in Kosovo, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Croatia, or Macedonia? It has been a very unfortunate setback for those areas. Investment has slowed down substantially. People are nervous about investing in Yugoslavia and in those other areas. Don't forget, Yugoslavia itself has really been savaged. 
   The whole area has not benefited, in my view, as a result of this war. How can it be argued otherwise? 
   It has been a constant drain on our defense budget. I serve on the Armed Services Committee. I am very concerned about our inability to find necessary funds to take care of our soldiers' salaries and health care, and to keep our retention and recruitment up. Every day I see a need to invest in new weapons that we may need to have on the battlefield 10 or 15 years from now. We don't have the money to do it. I see $2 billion--$1.7 billion in consecutive years--going into Kosovo. That is real money that could do incredible things for our Defense Department. 
   We are also troubled by Operation Tempo, the OPTEMPO, and the requirements placed on our men and women in uniform to be away from home. 
   When you are there you see how dedicated our men and women are. When I was there this past Easter, we arrived at Camp Eagle Saturday night at 7 or 8 o'clock. I was there at 8:30 p.m., and a young officer that I knew asked me if I would be interested in speaking to a class. I said sure, I would be glad to. It was a political science class. ``Come on and go with me.'' I was walking off. This is Easter Sunday, a weekend, on a Saturday night at 8:30. There is a class going on. Sure enough, there were 25 soldiers studying a college class after a full day at work. The hours are basically 12 hours a day, or 10 hours a day, and sometimes 14 or 15 hours a day, counting PD. They give themselves totally to it and are tremendous soldiers. They are doing what they are called upon to do. 
   We also were there when with the Texas National Guard. We visited them. The Texas National Guard has 700 National Guard members who were taken from their communities and sent there to operate the command center. They are doing a great job. 
   But with regard to all of the soldiers, guardsmen, and active duty, they have families. They know that this is not an action that is critical to the national security. They feel as if they are helping. They feel as if they may be keeping people from shooting one another. But they wonder if it is ever going to end. Is it getting any better? Are they in the long term really being successful in what they are doing? When they call their wives and family--they have young children--they wonder whether they need to reenlist because they count up how many months and weeks and days of the last 1, 2, 3, or 4 years they have been away from their home while their children are growing up. They are wondering whether or not they want to reenlist and stay in. We can't ask too much of our soldiers. We have a limited number of troops. Our active duty forces are down 40 percent, really more than 40 percent in personnel since the wall fell. That is a major reduction. 
   But our OPTEMPO is higher than it has been any time in recent memory. We have troops committed all over the world. It drains us financially. It drains our families and servicemen and servicewomen. It causes them to wonder about whether or not they should reenlist. 
   I don't think it is wise. We have to be sure what we do. 
   I suggest that this Congress has been supportive of our troops. We made sure they had sufficient resources to build quarters, if the Army asked for them. If you go over there and look at them, they are permanent quarters. We are talking about having our troops out shortly. We bring a police force in, and when we create a local government, our troops get out. 
   I was in Bosnia and Kosovo a few weeks ago. When we asked how long they would be here, and how long will it be before you can leave, they had no answer. They just would not say. They would not tell you that they saw any prospect that circumstances were such they could easily leave. 
   In Bosnia, after 5 years of commitment, they were just a few weeks ago having city elections. 
   Can you imagine that? The United Nations is supposed to create civil government. We are supposed to be able to get our troops out. It has been 5 years, and they just now are beginning to have a civil government. 
   Many nations committed to sending over 5,000 police to Kosovo. These are retired police officers, and police officers who took a leave from various countries. They were supposed to go into the towns and cities in Kosovo and help create law and order, create a legal system, and create a government. We wanted to have government there. It is not happening. 
   We have committed our police there. But many of the NATO countries have not gotten their police there. They have not been effectively led, in my opinion, by the United Nations. The government building plans of the United Nations are not being effectively carried out. 
   What does that mean? Does that mean we just stay there forever? 
   Both Senator WARNER and Senator BYRD are saying we need to talk about this thing. We represent the people of the United States of America who are putting up $2 billion a year for this operation, and we want to know what is going on. 
   I don't often agree with BARNEY FRANK in the House of Representatives, but he said in the debate on this issue that we are just ``enabling'' the Europeans and the U.N. in their bad habits. We are enabling them. We could stay there, stay there, stay there, and they don't have to complete what they promised to complete to create a civil government. 
   Who pays the bill? The American taxpayers pay the bill. 
   We have a responsibility in this Congress. We have not really had a debate in this Congress since we voted on whether or not to allow the President to proceed with the air war when it happened. 
   We have not discussed this issue seriously. The American people have not heard it discussed here, and neither have we debated it on the floor of this Senate. 
   I salute Senator WARNER and Senator BYRD for, if nothing else, causing this debate to be joined. 
   People ask me about it. How did this happen? I thought you had to declare war. What is the matter with you Congressmen and Senators? The President just sends troops anywhere, starts dropping bombs anywhere, and you guys are just there like a potted plant? 
   That is basically what has happened. We have been sitting here allowing it to go on and enabling the Europeans and the U.N. to fail to fulfill their responsibilities while the taxpayers pay the bill. 
   I wish it weren't so. I think the people in Kosovo and in Bosnia are wonderful people. I don't know how they got into this kind of hatred and bitterness that leads to this kind of violence. But it is reality. We have the ability to do something about it. 
   I recall that General MacArthur was able to create a government in Japan, and General Marshall and General Eisenhower 
   reestablished Germany after being devastated in World War II. 
   We have a situation in which nobody is really in charge. Nobody is being held accountable. 
   At our hearings, the witnesses and even the military witnesses started talking about the international community. I asked: Who is the international community? Well, it is the groups of NGOs, private organizations, the World Bank, and NATO and all these things. I said: Do they meet somewhere? Do they vote? Do they make commitments? Do they sign agreements that they will do certain things as a group, this international community? No. Who does? NATO, U.N., and individual nations. That is who makes agreements that stick by them or don't stick by them. We have not held the U.N., NATO, and European  nations accountable. We have enabled them to continue in their bad activities. We need to stop that. We have a responsibility. I am not saying we need to pull out right now. 
   They say: Just vote to cut off funds; that is all you have to do. Don't vote for this resolution; it is something next year. Just vote to cut off funds. 
   What would happen if we did that? They would say: This is horrible. You can't vote to cut off funds. We haven't made any plans for it. You just up and cut off funds; that is an unwise and risky thing. 
   I agree. I don't think it would be wise to vote to cut off all funds and bring troops home tomorrow. I am not sure that is a wise process. 
   I like the idea of this amendment that says: NATO and all the European nations, if you don't fulfill your commitments, we are getting out of there. NATO, other European nations, we expect some progress made in establishing a civil government and we will vote a year from now and debate this issue. We hope things are improving and we can continue to be phasing down our troops and getting ourselves out of there. But you need to know that we are not a rubber stamp or a potted plant. This Congress does not have to keep funding this operation. You can be sure next July we will have that vote and some progress needs to be made. We need to see something working. 
   The truth is, we are stuck. The question is, How do we get unstuck? Just vote to get out all at once? I think this kind of legislation is far better. I believe it is the right approach. I salute Chairman WARNER. 
   Somebody said a majority of the House of Representatives didn't vote 
   to support this effort. They didn't vote to support it. They didn't support it. They didn't think it was a good idea. They allowed the President to do it, and they provided the funds to him to do it but they haven't liked it. When called on to vote, they didn't vote for it. 
   Mr. President, 39 out of 100 Senators in this body voted against the bombing. It has never been a universally supported activity. I don't know why we would have been afraid to have a vote. Why would it be that the Senate would be afraid to set a date to have a debate? I think that is what we should do. 
   Let me say one more thing as I begin to close and bring this into context. I do not believe our Nation should be isolationist. I do not believe our Nation should withdraw from the world. I do believe there may be times that we are going to have to intervene all by ourselves, perhaps to preserve humanitarian rights, to protect the lives of innocent human beings when we have no strategic interest at all. But we have to be careful about that. We provided the military force, the air force to win this war. This is a European area. It is the backdoor of Europe. Kosovo has only 2 million people. We will debate in a few days giving aid to Colombia; Colombia is a nation of 38 million. No other country will help Colombia. On a scale of 1 to 10, they are far, far more important to this country than Kosovo, an agrarian area in the backdoor of Europe where European nations have a much more important interest in it than we do. 
   We helped them. We did our role for NATO. We won the war. We did the bombing. We got the Kosovars home. I would never have proposed stopping that bombing after those Kosovar people had been run out of their homes. We had to see it through to the end once it started. I believe it could have been avoided. It strikes me odd that many Members on the other side of the aisle, the Democratic side of the aisle, tenaciously fought President Bush in his effort to deal with the problem in Iraq and Kuwait. That effort was clearly in the national interests of the United States. 
   Saddam Hussein was an expansionist. He moved, using the wealth he had and the large population and army he had--unlike little Kosovo--south into an independent nation that had even more oil and took that nation of Kuwait. Everybody knew he would be turning his attention next to the other gulf states, to Saudi Arabia, and his plan was to take over all of the Middle East and all of its oil and use that wealth to create an army that could threaten the peace of the whole region. That was a threat. It was opposed almost unanimously by the Democrats in this body. By only a few votes was President Bush able to convince us of that war, a critical act for the United States. It would have been an absolute disaster had we allowed that to happen. We had to act. 
   That is what the role of the United States is. This didn't meet any of those criteria. It does surprise me where we don't have a national interest, people want to involve themselves. Our resources are limited. I have been on the budget. We need the best soldiers, the best planes, and the best weapons in the world. We never want to see our soldiers be subjected to the kind of attacks of the Iraqi Army, being slaughtered by superior force. We never want to see that happen. 
   How do we keep it from happening? We maintain a technological edge. How do we do it? We spend money on it. 
   But if we are spending $2 billion a year in Kosovo, spending money in Haiti, Somalia, or East Timor, time and time again, it affects our ability to modernize our military. Actually, it was that technology that allowed us to win. There are going to be other challenges. We will have other challenges. I believe we can meet them if we are not overdrawn. 
   Recently, the Armed Services Committee heard from Ashton Carter, now a professor at Harvard. He served for several years as a high official in the Clinton Department of Defense. He talked about what the United States ought to be doing there. He said we keep talking about being in a post-cold-war era. He said that has been 10 years. All that means is we haven't developed a foreign policy for the future. That means we don't know what we are doing. We are in a post-cold-war era. We need a new vision for America. 
   He suggested what we ought to do. He gave three lists of threats to this country: the A list, B list, and C list. The A list were threats from Russia, China, terrorism, and chemical warfare. This war in Kosovo has damaged our relationship with Russia and China. 
   He listed a B list. He said a B list threat would be serious, perhaps a war in the theater of Northeast Asia or Southeast Asia, a major war in one of those areas. That could happen. That could threaten the United States. 
   He listed a third list, the C list, and this is what he put on the C list: Kosovo, Bosnia, East Timor, Somalia, Haiti. His comments were that we are spending our time and our money reacting to events on the C list and not focusing our time and resources in confronting those threats that jeopardize the freedom and peace of this world. 
   That is what the role of the United States is to be. We have to be ready for the big threat. There is a limit to how many of these wars in which we can be involving ourselves. 
   Mr. President, I have great affection for the people I have gotten to know in Kosovo and Bosnia and Croatia. I am impressed with the struggles they are undergoing, and we want to help them, but we have done our bit. We have conducted this war. We have gotten the Kosovar people back home. We have done everything we could. I wish we had done it smarter, but we committed and we stayed through and we have gotten them there. Now the question is, Do we stay forever? Are we going to have an ability in this Congress to confront the future? Do we have a right to demand the President of the United States submit to us a plan for continuation there so we and the American people can evaluate it and vote yes or no? Is that unreasonable? Is that going to destroy NATO? Is that going to destroy the morale of our troops? I say no. 
   As a matter of fact, it will be healthy for NATO to realize we are not going to continue to enable bad policies to continue. It will be good for our troops to know we are debating and caring about them, trying to make the right decision about them. I believe the Byrd-Warner bill is a reasonable and fair bill practically. I believe it validates the historic constitutional responsibilities of the great U.S. Senate. We are not potted plants. We do have a responsibility, and we ought to perform it. 
   I salute Chairman WARNER. I have never seen a person I admire more. I have never seen a person with greater commitment to the good of this country. He believes it is time for us to make some decisions, enter into some debate, and involve the American people.  
   So I say it is the right thing to do. I have enjoyed being there, enjoyed meeting our troops. I do not want to do anything that would hurt them. But I am not one who believes we have to sit here and get a letter from General Wesley Clark and hide under the table. He did not get elected. He does not have the responsibility to make choices among health insurance, defense, and criminal justice, as we do. He does not have to go back to his voters and explain why it is in our critical national interest that their young men and women are committed around the globe, as we do. 
   I believe we can improve this commitment. I believe we can improve our effort in the world if we talk about these issues more openly. I believe this bill will lead us in that direction and I support it. I am proud to do so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to help preserve the heritage of historic women's colleges and universities. The United States is presently at mid-point in observing the centennial of the creation of seven unique educational institutions. 
   There were seven historic women's public colleges or universities founded in the United States between 1884 and 1908 to provide industrial education for women. They include: the University of Montevallo in Montevallo, Alabama; the Mississippi University for Women in Columbus, Mississippi; the Georgia College and State University in Milledgeville, Georgia; the University of North Carolina at Greensboro; Winthrop University in Rock Hill, South Carolina; the Texas Woman's University in Denton, Texas; and the University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma, in Chickasha, Oklahoma. 
   These seven public universities all were originally created to provide industrial and vocational education for women who at the time could not attend other public academic institutions. Following the industrial revolution, the United States found it desirable to promote agricultural, mechanical, and industrial education. Unfortunately, in seven States, the public agricultural and mechanical institutions  created during this period were closed to women. A number of educational advocates for women, notably Miss Julia Tutwiler, a native of Alabama, had learned extensively about European industrial and vocational education and tirelessly advocated the creation of industrial and technical educational opportunities for women. In these States, through major and extended efforts by women like Miss Tutwiler and by agrarian organizations, separate public educational institutions were created by the respective State legislatures to provide industrial and technical education for women. These schools subsequently became coeducational but retain significant historical and academic features of those pioneering efforts to educate women. 
   Currently these public institutions have critical capital needs related to their historic educational structures. Under this legislation, each school would receive $2 million in federal matching funding each year of the fiscal years 2001-2005. These funds, along with school funds, would be used for the preservation and restoration of historic buildings at these colleges and universities. 
   These historically women's public colleges and universities have contributed significantly to the effort to attain equal opportunity through postsecondary education for women, low-income individuals, and educationally disadvantaged Americans. I believe it is our duty to do all we can to preserve these historic institutions and I ask my colleagues for their support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand that H.R. 3709 is at the desk. I ask for its first reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask for its second reading and object to my own request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the leader, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider en bloc all of the military nominations reported by the Armed Services Committee today. I further ask unanimous consent that the nominations be confirmed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, any statements relating to the nominations appear in the RECORD, the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9 a.m. on Thursday, May 18. I further ask unanimous consent that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date,  the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of the military construction appropriations bill under the previous order, with Senators LAUTENBERG and ROBERTS to be recognized for up to 20 minutes and 15 minutes, respectively, in the order just stated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the remaining time for debate prior to the vote be as follows: Senator WARNER in control of 1 hour and 45 minutes, Senator BYRD in control of 1 hour, Senator LEVIN in control of 2 hours and 45 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the majority leader would like them to know that the Senate will resume consideration of the military construction appropriations legislation at 9 a.m. tomorrow. Under the order, there is approximately 5 1/2 hours of debate remaining on the Levin amendment regarding Kosovo, with a vote scheduled to occur at 2:30 p.m. Following that vote, it is hoped the Senate can proceed to a vote on final passage of the bill. 
   It is the intention of the leader to begin consideration of the foreign operations appropriations bill by tomorrow afternoon. Further votes are possible during tomorrow's session of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 9:06 p.m., adjourned until Thursday, May 18, 2000, at 9 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I thank the Senator from California. She is a most eloquent spokeswoman for her point of view, and I do share many of her concerns. I do believe this: Too many people are dying and we can do something about it. 
   I want to share tonight some of my ideas about what we can do about it. If we do the things I am talking about tonight, we can literally save thousands of lives. 
   It is fair and accurate to say that as a direct result of the failure--it is shocking, stunning to me--of the Clinton administration to enforce existing firearm laws, thousands of people have died who otherwise would not have died. I say that as a person who spent 15 years as a Federal prosecutor working as an assistant U.S. attorney for 2 1/2 years and almost 12 years as the U.S. attorney appointed to prosecute Federal criminal cases. In this body, we only deal with laws that apply to Federal criminal cases, not State cases. 
   We can save lives, but ask anybody who is a long-time, good student on the subject of crime in America, ``Do you think a law that would stop the sale of guns at gun shows is going to stop people from getting killed?'' and they will laugh at you. This is not something that is going to have a serious impact on crime in America, but it does have the capacity to seriously undermine a popular institution of gun shows because it delays for so long sales of guns and the gun show activities have closed and people are gone. It just does not work well. People have objected to that. That is where we are today. 
   I am frustrated, as I know the Chair is, because we are now back on this issue. The bill before this body is a military construction bill. We need to address certain matters of construction for our military bases and men and women in the service. We need to focus on that and get serious about it. 
   The majority leader, TRENT LOTT, knows what we have to do. We have 13 appropriations bills to pass. Are we going to every day have some other controversial, nongermane, irrelevant amendment brought forward disrupting the flow of the Senate and keeping us from doing the job we want to do? Is that what is going to happen? That is why he has stood firm. No, we are going to stay on military construction; we do not need to be on the issue of gun laws today. 
   It is a tactic. I know the Senator is most eloquent, but she also said basically the truth. She said it was a political issue; the Democrats want to use this in the fall. I suggest they are just playing politics and not talking about matters that will make our streets safer and our schools safer. I will talk about those in a minute. Politics is not what we need to be doing now. 
   The gun laws we debated in this body some time ago are, in fact, in conference. They passed this Senate. We passed a gun show law. Virtually everybody here voted for major restrictions on the gun show operations. The Lautenberg amendment was contested. Many believed the Lautenberg amendment went too far and disrupted a favored institution in America--the gun  show. We had a vote on it after a great debate, the thing the Democrats want to continue, apparently. We had a 50-50 tie. The Vice President sat in the Presiding Officer's chair and, with great pomp and circumstance, broke the tie in favor of the amendment, walked out here, and immediately had a press conference and accused those of us who did not agree with his view on the details of this gun show law of not caring about children, not caring about crime, being indifferent to murder. 
   I was offended by that. I remain offended by that because I have committed a better part of my professional life to prosecuting criminals and caring about crime and victims. I know them personally. I personally tried approximately 100 gun cases myself, and under my supervision hundreds of gun cases have been prosecuted. I think I know something about this. I want to share some thoughts about that today. 
   I start off by discussing some basic issues. I am delighted the mothers were in town. Most of all, they remind us that children, young people, adults, family members, ourselves, are in danger in America because of violence and that this Nation needs to use the expertise, knowledge, skill, and scientific data to do what we can as a Congress to make this country safer. We can do that. 
   How can we reduce crime? How can we save children's lives? How can we save adult lives? How can we make our communities safer? I have studied this for 17 years as a prosecutor. I have read reports and studies of the Department of Justice. I have observed personally and tried to see what was going on around me, and I want to share some things with you about crime in America. 
   During the sixties and seventies, as the Chair mentioned so eloquently in his remarks, crime in this country more than doubled. It tripled, maybe even quadrupled. 
   We had double-digit increases--15-, 17-, 18-percent crime increases--a year in the 1960s and 1970s. It was a direct result, in my opinion, of a breakdown of discipline, a breakdown of family, an increase in drug use, and a disconnect and a lack of respect for authority in America. 
   Our leaders in our colleges and universities, they all said it was ``cool,'' it was ``doing your own thing,'' it was ``seeking fulfillment,'' and you should not teach children to just always be automatons and just follow orders; that they ought to be allowed to express themselves. They said people were not responsible for their own acts. They said crime was a product of finances; how much money you had would affect whether you were a criminal or not--all kinds of things like that. 
   People who are listening to me today, who lived during those times, know I am not exaggerating. As a result, even though crime was going up dramatically, we had no increase really in the number of people in jail. We had a belief afoot in the land, by many of our brightest people, that jail did not work. They would say that putting people in jail just made them meaner, that it was no good, we needed to treat the root cause of crime, whatever that was, and we needed to increase welfare spending and just give people more money; that we could just sort of buy them off. Then they would not riot, rob, steal, rape, and kill. I am telling you, that is basically what the deal was in the 1960s and 1970s. 
   The critical point came when Ronald Reagan ran for President, and he promised he was going to promote law and order in this country. He made a serious commitment; he was going to create a war on drugs. He did that. He set about to appoint prosecutors, such as JEFF SESSIONS, in Mobile, AL, and 94 others in the districts around this country. He told us to get out there and utilize the skills and abilities and laws we had to fight crime. 
   This Senate and this Congress passed some extraordinarily effective and tough laws that had already passed a number of years earlier under President Nixon--a Speedy Trial Act that said cases had to be tried in 70 days. That is so much shorter than what goes on in most State courts today. The Federal Speedy Trial Act of 70 days is a very firm rule, and cases are normally tried within 70 days. 
   In addition to that, in the 1980s, under President Reagan, they passed a law that eliminated parole. It said that whatever sentence you got, you served it, virtually day for day. It eliminated parole, so a criminal who was sentenced would serve the time the judge gave him. We called that ``honesty in sentencing.'' We said it was time to quit joking about giving someone 30 years and having them serve 6 and be right back out on the streets again, robbing and raping and doing other kinds of criminal activities. So we had the honesty in sentencing. 
   Then we had mandatory sentencing. Sentencing guidelines were set up. Minimum mandatory sentences were set forth under President Reagan and into President Bush's term. Those sentences were very effective. 
   We had an expert group of judges, and others, who analyzed the kinds of crimes and helped establish the statutory range of guidelines for judges to sentence within. The mandatory minimums said, for example, regardless of what else may happen, if you carry a gun during any crime, including a drug crime, you have to be sentenced for 5 years, without parole, consecutive to the drug crime or the burglary or any other crime you may have 
   been sentenced for in Federal court. 
   So those are the kinds of things that happened. And the Federal courts improved themselves dramatically. 
   During those 12 years I served as U.S. attorney, a major factor dawned on me. We were making some progress. Crime in America began to drop in a number of the years--maybe a majority of the years under President Reagan's leadership. But it was not always down. In some years it started up, or the crime did not drop enough. I wondered, what could we do? 
   Many questioned whether these sentencing guidelines were working or not. Then it dawned on me why we were not having the impact. It was so simple as to be obvious to anybody who gave any thought to it. Federal court only tries 2, 3, 1 percent of all the crimes in America; 95, 97, 98 percent of all crimes tried in America are tried in State courts, not Federal. Even though the Federal court had set the example for the State courts, it could not itself, in effect, change the climate in America. 
   Over the past number of years, State court systems have gotten fed up. They realized that the revolving-door mentality of just arresting people, releasing them on bail, trying them 2 years later, letting them plead guilty to 6 months, and having them in a halfway house and then back on the streets, selling drugs, conducting crime, was not effective; and they passed all kinds of repeat dangerous offender laws. 
   You heard the ``three strikes and you're out'' laws passed in many States. The third time you are convicted of a felony, you serve life without parole. All kinds of laws such as that were passed in virtually every State in this country. They got tough and serious about crime in America and said: We are not going to take it anymore. We are not going to allow people who threaten the lives of our children to be released on the streets. And from 1990 to today, the prison population in America has doubled--more than doubled. 
   Many people complain about it. They say to me: JEFF, we have too many people in jail. That is just too many. Oh, this is awful. 
   One person told me one time: If we keep this up, everybody is going to be in prison. Of course, that is a joke. Everybody does not commit crimes. Everybody does not rob, rape, shoot, and kill. No, sir. We have gotten serious about it. We focused on the repeat dangerous offender and did something about it. 
   The Rand Corporation, a number of years ago, did a very important study. In this study, they interviewed, in depth, people in prison all over, but I believe it was mainly in California. They interviewed lots of people in prison, in depth, for hours, about what their life was like when they were out involving themselves in crime. 
   They found some amazing facts. They found that a significant number, although less than a majority of those in prison, were very much criminally inclined, that they were committing as many as 300 crimes a year. Three hundred crimes a year they were committing. It gave further impetus to and further basis for these ``three strikes and you're out'' laws and multiple-offender laws.  
   You might say: They would not commit 300 crimes a year, Jeff. They must not be telling the truth. But listen to me. There are 365 days in a year. Some of these criminals go out and knock ladies down, take their purses two or three times a 
   night, break into cars, steal cars, break into houses, break into stores and office places multiple times in one night. Many of them are committing 200, 300 crimes a year; some of them more than that. 
   So we began to focus on that, and, since about 1990, we have had a decline in the crime rate in America every year. This past year, we just had the announcement that the murder rate dropped 7 percent in America. I was proud to see that. 
   They can have all the theories they want, but I tell you, there are not that many people in my hometown of Mobile, AL, who are willing to come out and shoot you. There are just not that many of them. And if you identify them when they go out and start committing crimes, and put them in jail, they are not going to be out there to shoot you, your family, your children, your loved ones. They are not going to be there. 
   I wish there were some way we could do something different. I wish we could have a class for prisoners where they could take this class and in 6 months we could release them where they would not commit crimes. 
   You will hear of people who cite studies and say: Oh, this cures people, and they do not ever commit crime again. Look at them closely. If that were so, we would already be doing it. Trust me. Nobody would oppose that. Nobody would oppose that. But for the most part they do not work. They may help some--and I am not against these kinds of programs--but, fundamentally, many people who are definitely criminally inclined will continue to be so. 
   So we made some big progress. 
   The city of Miami--many of you will remember the commitment President Bush made when he went down there to head the task force in Miami when he was Vice President. They were using automatic weapons, machine guns, MAC-11s, slaughtering people. Colombian gangs were operating almost at will. They said they were going to do something about it. Over a period of years, Miami has been relieved of those kinds of violent shootings. You almost never hear of a shooting with an automatic weapon in Miami anymore. It was brought to a halt. 
   By the way, it has been a crime since the days of Al Capone to have a machine gun. In the midseventies, when I was an assistant U.S. attorney, we prosecuted every one of those cases where people had machine guns, fully automatic weapons. So this idea that somehow we need to pass laws to keep people from carrying AK-47s--and you hear that all the time--it is already against the law to carry those weapons. It has been in the law for some number of years. 
   Boston, MA, a few years ago, was very concerned about the number of murders in their town. They wanted to do something about it. My staff members went up and studied their program because we heard such good comments about what they had done. They took young people seriously. When a young person got in trouble in the juvenile court in Boston, they weren't only given probation and sent home. They had a police officer and a probation officer--and they changed their hours; they worked from 3 o'clock in the afternoon to 10 o'clock at night, and the police officer would go out with the probation officer, and if the curfew was at 7 o'clock for young Billy, they knocked on Billy's door at 7 o'clock or 7:30 to see if he was home at night. If he wasn't home, something was done. Almost all of a 
   sudden, they began to realize that these people meant business. They really cared about them. If you care about these young people, you will make sure they are obeying the rules you give them. 
   They targeted gang members who were leading gangs and getting involved in criminal activities and told them: If you keep this up, you are going to serve big time in jail. They sent criminals away for long periods. They broke up the gangs and they went a year without a single juvenile homicide in Boston. 
   I thought it was a good program. That is why, as chairman of the juvenile crime subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee, we put that kind of effort into our juvenile crime bill that is now being held up in conference. That would have been supported financially by the Federal Government, encouraging other cities to do those kinds of things that would reduce crime. But let me ask you, do you think we are going to save lives in Boston, MA, by passing a law to eliminate gun shows in America? It is not going to have anything to do with that crime. So we need to do those kinds of things. 
   Another city that had an extraordinary success rate was Richmond, and I will talk about it in a minute. 
   So what do we do? We have a juvenile crime bill that is being held up in committee. Let me tell you precisely why it is being held up, the way I see it. The Senator from California indicates she sees it a different way. Let me tell you the way I see it. 
   We had this strong--too strong, in my opinion--gun show amendment. It did not have a majority of support in the Senate. The Senate tied 50/50. The Vice President came in here and broke the tie. Only 50 Members of this 100-Member body voted for that amendment. They voted for other amendments that would be less strong and less damaging to the gun show activities but at the same time tightening up the gun show situation. It went to the House of Representatives, a coequal body. For a bill to become law, it has to pass the Senate and the House. The House, on a bipartisan basis--JOHN DINGELL, Democrat from Michigan, and a number of other Democrats--voted against it, killed the Lautenberg amendment by a substantial vote. 
   Now, Members of this body are saying the conference committee is supposed to work out a bill and has to put in an amendment that was rejected in the House and had a tie vote in the Senate. You don't normally do that. Why would we think the votes in those two Houses would justify that? Surely not. That is not logical. So they are saying, if you don't agree to put in this amendment that was rejected already in the House, we are going to block the bill and keep trying to offer amendments here every day to see if we can't embarrass you Republicans so we can have an election issue in November. 
   That is what it is all about. But it is frustrating our ability to do our work because we have a military construction bill on the floor. That is what we need to deal with, taking care of that, not repeating the same old arguments we have had with gun laws. 
   Let me tell you what I think ought to be done. In the juvenile crime bill, we have, I believe, $80 million for a project CUFF, Criminal Use of Firearms by Felons--just a title we came up with--that would provide special prosecutors in every U.S. attorney's office in America. It would, in effect, step up dramatically the Federal enforcement of criminal laws. 
   By the way, when I became a Member of this Senate 3 years 
   ago, I started looking at the U.S. attorneys' statistics. I knew how to use them. I reviewed them every year when I was a U.S. attorney. I pulled out the book. I was hearing from friends and people in the Department of Justice that this Department had allowed criminal prosecution to decline markedly. I looked at the numbers to see if it were true. I was shocked to find that, under the Clinton-Gore administration, prosecutions of criminal gun cases dropped from 7,000 to around 3,500--nearly a 40-percent decline in the prosecutions of gun cases. 
   I was shocked because every day the President of the United States and Vice President Gore were out there saying: All you Senators and Congressmen who won't pass more and more restrictions on innocent law-abiding citizens who want to possess guns are for crime, death, slaughter, and shootings. You guys are no good. You are not worthy of respect. You are just trash. You care about crime. You defend crime and you don't believe in children. 
   Those are the kinds of things they were saying. At the same time, they had the power and authority to prosecute criminals who were actually using guns in criminal activities, and the prosecutions had dropped 40 percent. A stunning thing. I didn't ignore it. 
   Nearly 3 years ago--within a year of my being in this office--I challenged the Attorney General herself, Janet  Reno, about these numbers. She brushed off the debate. A deputy attorney general came before the committee and had private meetings when he was coming around to meet Senators. In his testimony, I asked him and demanded that they do better with the prosecutions of gun cases. The chief of the criminal division came by, as did two criminal division chiefs. I raised it with them. I had charts. I wrote an op-ed in 1998, or so, on this very subject, expressing my shock at this amazing decline in prosecutions. The reason was that was a big deal for us. Under President George Bush, we were told to do something about these gun cases. We were Federal prosecutors appointed by the President of the United States. All 94 U.S. attorneys were appointed by the President of the United States as part of the executive branch. 
   We had a project called Project Triggerlock. We had task forces with the sheriffs and the chiefs of police in our area. We met and discussed how to use these tough Federal laws for speedy trial actions with mandatory minimum sentences and no parole to crack down on violent criminals. 
   I put together a newsletter. I called it Project Triggerlock News. I sent it to all of the chiefs of police and to all of the sheriffs in my district. I sent it to the detectives and law enforcement officers who I knew were working on these kinds of cases. We showed example after example of criminals who were carrying firearms, and whom we tried in Federal court with joint investigations and prosecutions, and they served a long period of time in jail and were removed from the community. 
   I couldn't believe an administration that came into office talking about guns had abandoned this program. In fact, they had not totally abandoned it. Several years ago, the United States attorney in Richmond, VA, and the chief assistant who had been involved in these cases over the years got together with the chief of police in Richmond and determined to prosecute aggressively all Federal gun violations of existing law in Richmond, VA. They called their project Project Exile. They called it Project Exile because when they convicted them they got 5 or 10 years without parole. They didn't go to the halfway house in Richmond. They were sent off to a Federal prison maybe hundreds of miles away. They were gone, out of Richmond, away for long periods of time without parole. They did this consistently and aggressively. 
   President Clinton's own U.S. attorney, his own appointee, testified that they had achieved a 40-percent reduction in murder rate--a 40-percent reduction. They did one thing that we didn't do. They put ads out about it. They put up posters: Carry a gun, mandatory Federal jail time. They were out to convince people that they better obey the law, and they had better not be misusing guns. They were successful at it. They reduced murder rates 40 percent. 
   I asked Attorney General Reno if she was going to do something about that. Well, we are just going to let each district do what they want to, she said. 
   Curiously, I had a hearing set. It was really remarkable to me. We had a hearing on this matter. It was set for Monday morning. The administration did not want us to have this hearing. They kept wanting to put it off. I had the U.S. attorney from Richmond, the chief of police, and some experienced prosecutors testify about this kind of thing. I was amazed to turn on my radio on Saturday. What do you think the President's radio address to the Nation was on? It was on Project Triggerlock, and Project Exile. He had the U.S. attorney from Richmond and the chief of police from Richmond in the White House with him while he was doing the address. And he bragged on it, and said how good it was. 
   About 6 weeks later, the Attorney General came up. I had heard that they had not taken any action on it. They appointed some commission to talk about it, and no directives had gone out. I asked her about it. I remember asking her how the President sent her directives. Did he send them to her by writing or did she have to turn on the radio and listen to him? Because his exact words were, ``I am directing the Attorney General and the Secretary of Treasury to crack down on these 
   kinds of criminals.'' 
   To my knowledge, they still have not made the kind of progress that they should. 
   Do you see the hypocrisy here? 
   We have a plan in Richmond, VA, that I know as an experienced Federal prosecutor will save hundreds of lives and thousands of lives. 
   In the time this administration has been in office, I believe I can say with confidence that thousands of people are dead today because Project Triggerlock was abandoned and this administration allowed crime prosecutions to plummet. That is a tragedy, and it is wrong. 
   But, at the same time, when they come up to me, and they want to register handguns, or they want to close down gun shows, and if I don't vote for that, then I don't care about children, I don't care about people getting shot and killed in America. It burns me up. I do not like that. And why the media has not understood this fully is beyond my comprehension. 
   They just continue to suggest that the only thing that counts in this country is whether or not you vote for further and further restrictions that implicate and sometimes really go beyond implicating but, in fact, violate the second amendment to the Constitution of the United States which guarantees the right to keep and bear arms. Somebody will say, well, they don't like that. Well, that is our Constitution. Put it up in an amendment, big boy, if you want to change it. Let's see them bring forward an amendment to eliminate the second amendment. There is no consensus for that in this country. It is part of the heritage of this country that people maintain firearms. 
   We didn't have these kinds of murder rates in the 1930s, the 1940s, and the 1950s when a higher percentage of Americans had guns than they have today. I don't know of anybody where I grew up who didn't have a firearm. 
   I say to you first and foremost, how do you reduce crime and murder and make our streets safer? Implement President Clinton's own Project Exile. Mr. President, direct that it be done. See that the Attorney General carries it out. Pass our juvenile crime bill which provides you even more money than you really need to carry out that project. I say you don't need any more money because we didn't need it when I was U.S. attorney. Why can't you prosecute these gun cases? They are not hard to prosecute. Really most of them are quite simple, and 80 or 90 percent plead guilty. It is a good way to crack down on violence in America. 
   There is one more thing that I want to mention. We implemented the National Crime Information Center--the NCIC--background check. That is a computer-operated system. So if you go down to a gun store and attempt to buy a firearm, they can plug in your Social Security number, date of birth, whatever, and they can run an NCIC check on your criminal history to see if you are a convicted felon. Most of you may not know it, but if you are a convicted felon, you can't possess a firearm, period. You can't possess a shotgun, a rifle, or a pistol. Any convicted felon in America, even if it is a fraud case with no violence in it, cannot possess a firearm. We used to prosecute a lot of those cases of a ``felon in possession.'' That is what we called them. 
   We found that in 13 months of this new NCIC system, 89,000 individuals were rejected. They could not buy a firearm because they had some problem. Many of them were 
   felons. 
   I submit to you they have already filled out a form. I used to remember the number. I think it was 4477. On that form they filled out they had to swear under oath they were not a convicted felon. That is a crime. That is a false statement. Also, many of these people turned out to be fugitives from other criminal activities. 
   The BATF, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms--I have great friends in BATF, and they do a good job--is not following up on these cases. They have prosecuted less than 1 percent of these 89,000 cases. Probably about two-tenths of 1 percent were actually prosecuted. 
   There are some serious criminals in that group. When those cases come in and are kicked out and people are rejected because of violence, they ought to be investigated, and they ought to be prosecuted. 
   I think that would be a great way to identify criminals who are out to get  guns and are up to no good and are out on the street. There are straw men who use false identities to buy guns. There are illegal sellers of guns. There are gun thieves who sell guns and pass them around the neighborhoods. Those kinds of people can be prosecuted, too. 
   If you do that, I have no doubt that crime will be reduced. There will be less murders in this country and we could save lives by the thousands. That is what we need to do. That is where our focus needs to be. 
   I hope those who came to the moms' march will cause us to focus on the real causes of crime and how to really stop it. If we do, we can make this country safer, we can save lives, and we can do what we are paid to do. 
   We need to quit playing politics. We need to get that juvenile crime bill up, voted on, and we need some compromise and support from the Members of the other side. 
   Once we do that, we will begin to save lives in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand that S. 2567 is at the desk, and I ask for its first reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I now ask for its second reading, and I object to my own request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. On behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday, May 17. I further ask consent that on Wednesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of S. 2521, the military construction appropriations bill under the previous consent, with Senator SPECTER to be recognized for up to 30 minutes at 9:30 to speak, with his time being considered as being consumed from the majority leader's time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will immediately resume consideration of the military construction appropriations bill at 9:30 tomorrow. Under the previous agreement, there will be 4 hours of debate on the pending Lott and Daschle amendments, with those votes occurring at 1:30 p.m. A vote on final passage of the bill is expected to occur on Wednesday. Therefore, additional votes can be expected, and Senators will be notified as those votes are scheduled. Following this bill, the Senate will begin consideration of the foreign operations appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 10:02 p.m., adjourned until Wednesday, May 17, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, it is my pleasure to present to the Senate today Alfredo Phillips, who is a member of the Congress of the Nation of Mexico. I have gotten to know him in 3 years now at the interparliamentary conference between the United States and Mexico. We have had 39 years of interparliamentary conferences between our two nations. He has an extraordinary history in banking. 
   He was Director of the North American Development Bank, which is part of the NAFTA agreement. He has been Executive Director of the International Money Fund for 4 years. He is General Coordinator of International Affairs of the PRI. That is his title now. He was Mexico's Ambassador to Canada, Ambassador to Japan, and chairs the Foreign Relations Commission for the Congress of Mexico. 
   He got his degree in humanities from the University of Mexico and his degree in economics from the University of London. He studied at George Washington University. His wife Maureen is a wonderful lady who my wife Mary and I have had the pleasure to meet. His son Alfredo is in an economics section of the Mexican Embassy here in the United States. 
   Mr. President, it is my pleasure to introduce Mr. Alfredo Phillips to this body. He is known to many of our Senators and Congressmen. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess for 3 minutes, before Senator FEINSTEIN takes the floor again, in order for the Senate to greet our guest. 
   There being no objection, at 11:57 a.m., the Senate recessed until 12:03 p.m.; whereupon, the Senate reassembled when called to order by the Presiding Officer (Mr. BURNS). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Louisiana for her insightful remarks, and particularly with regard to what is too common, where our schools are not performing and our students are not performing at the level at which they need to perform. 
   We have a responsibility to make sure what we do in this body facilitates improvement in the system we have today--a system that has been in place for 35 years and is producing the kind of results that have been shown. 
   This is certainly a time for review and change, for altering and improving. To suggest we cannot do that is beyond credibility. We absolutely can improve what we are doing. We need to. We have to make sure that what the Federal Government does is a positive event with regard to actual learning in the classroom--which is what this is all about--and not a negative impact on learning in the classroom. 
   In a minute, I am going to share some examples of a Federal law that is absolutely undermining the ability of local school systems to educate, to create a learning environment where kids can reach their maximum potential. Wouldn't it be awful if we passed a law in Washington that actually made it more difficult to create a learning environment in the classrooms of America? The truth is, we have. We need to change that. 
   I appreciate what the Senator from Louisiana said about testing. There are limits to what testing can show, but when you test thousands and thousands of kids all over a State, you can know whether or not those kids are basically performing at 
   the grade level at which they ought to be performing. We can learn that from a test. 
   I do not believe in a Federal test. That would be the Federal Government saying to the 50 States, that provide 94 percent of all the money for education in America: This is what your students must learn. If they don't pass this Federal test, they are not learning adequately, and therefore we have in Washington this school board of 100 Senators who would have to decide what is important and crucial in America. 
   I do not believe in that. I think that would be against our history. It would be against the policy of this Nation since its founding because schools have been a State and local instrumentality. The Federal Government has only been able to assist marginally. In some ways, we have contributed to its downfall in undermining education. 
   The test scores are important. Over a large number of people--not for every child--they give us very accurate indications of whether learning is occurring. I support that. In fact, I have been on the Education Committee a little over 1 year. We have many debates about accountability. Our friends on the other side of the aisle say: We need more accountability. Your plan, SESSIONS--this idea of turning more of the money over to the schools so they can use it as they see fit within their system--lacks accountability. 
   But I say to you, the present system totally lacks accountability. The system that has been proposed by the Members on this side has absolutely the kind of accountability that should be part of an education bill. 
   For example, we have approximately 700-plus education programs in America. Do you think that is not true? Would you dispute that with me? We have over 700 education programs in America, according to the General Accounting Office. Isn't that stunning? If a school system wants some money out of a program, they have to have a lawyer and a grant-writing expert just to find out where the money is and how it might be available to them. Many of these programs are ineffective and should not be continued. 
   We have all of these programs. What our friends on the other side of the aisle are saying, too often, is--I don't think my friend from Louisiana is saying this, perhaps--if you don't have strict rules about how this money is spent, and you can only spend it for a specific thing, you don't have accountability. 
   What do we have today in America? We have the Federal Government spending billions of dollars on education. We are pouring that money into schools right and left, and many of the school systems have a total inability to create a proper learning environment, and education and learning is not occurring. 
   Is that accountability? They may be following all the paperwork and spending the money just as they said, but the fundamental question of education is learning. If learning is not occurring, then we are not having accountability, are we? 
   What this program says to every school system in America--at least the 15 that choose it, and perhaps others in different ways, but 15 States in this country, if they choose it, would be able to have a substantial increase in their flexibility to use Federal money, with less paperwork, less rules, and less complaints about how they handle it. The only thing they would be asked to do is to create a testing system and an accountability system in their school system that can determine at the beginning of the year where children are academically, and go to the end of the year and see if they have improved. 
   What else are we here about? What is education about if not learning? That is the only thing that counts. That is the product of all of our efforts. It is not how many teachers, how many buildings, how many textbooks, or how many football fields they have. The question is, Is learning occurring? This way we would have that. The school systems would basically say to the Federal Government: Give us a chance. You give us this money and let us run with it. Let us create a learning environment we think is effective. Give us a chance and we will put our necks on the line. We tell you we are going to increase learning in the classroom and we are going to have an objective test to show whether or not we are doing it. If we don't do it, we will go back under all your rules and paperwork. 
   There is a myth here, and some have denigrated the role of Governors. But I don't know a Governor in America who isn't running for office and promising to lead and do better in education. 
   I see the Senator from Georgia. Do we have a time problem? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will finish up soon. 
   In Alabama, our general fund budget, where all the funds are appropriated, is $1.2 billion. The education budget in Alabama is almost $4 billion. Do you hear that? In Alabama, we spent almost $4 billion on education and $1 billion on everything else. Do you think the Governor isn't concerned about that? Do you think the State legislature is not concerned about that? The primary function of State government in Alabama, and in every State in America, is education. That is where the responsibility needs to be, and that is where we need to empower them to use creative ideas to improve the system. 
   I have offered an amendment on the subject of special education; IDEA regulations are disrupting our classrooms. We have examples in our State of two people bringing a gun to school and one being put back in the classroom because he is a special student. The other was kicked out for the year as is every other student. We have created a separate rule of law, a separate rule of discipline, by a Federal mandate from Washington, in every schoolroom in America. 
   I have been in 15 schools this year in Alabama. This is one of the top concerns I hear from teachers and principals 
   everywhere. They are concerned about that. I think I will talk about that later. I talked about it previously. I will also talk about this regulation, this Federal mandate, that is clearly not a help to the States but a major detriment. It is bigger and stronger and more burdensome than most people in this country have any idea. I think we need to talk about it more. 
   I yield the floor at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000508</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to share some additional thoughts with the Members of the Senate and those watching what we can do to improve education in America. 
   I believe in public education. I have taught and my wife has taught in public schools. I say that to express how deeply I care about it. We have been active in PTA as our kids have gone forward. We want to improve the system. We want to make learning occur more regularly. We want to help teachers. I believe in American teachers. They are some of the finest in the world. They are well trained. They give their hearts and souls to it, only to be frustrated by regulations, paperwork, and discipline problems resulting from mandated rules passed by this Congress. 
   I am going to share some thoughts today, and those in education in any State of America will know what I am saying is true. They will have heard these kinds of examples time and time again. But the vast majority of Americans will not believe it; they will not believe these things occur. 
   Over 25 years ago, for example, we passed a federal disabilities act. It was designed to mandate to school systems and require that they not shut out disabled kids from the classroom and that they be involved in the classroom. If they have a hearing loss, or a sight loss, or if they have difficulty moving around, in a wheelchair, or whatever, the school system must make accommodations for them. They would be mainstreamed. They would not be treated separately. 
   That was a good goal, a goal from which we should not retreat. I hope no one interprets what I say today as a retreat from that goal. But in the course of that time, we have created a complex system of Federal regulations and laws that have created lawsuit after lawsuit, special treatment for certain children, and that are a big factor in accelerating the decline in civility and discipline in classrooms all over America. I say that very sincerely. 
   Teachers I have been talking to have shared stories with me. I have been in 15 schools around Alabama this year. I have talked to them about a lot of subjects. I ask them about this subject in every school I go to, and I am told in every school that this is a major problem for them. In fact, it may be the single most irritating problem for teachers throughout America today. 
   It was really brought to my attention a little over a year ago when a long-time friend, District Attorney David Whetstone, in Baldwin County, AL, called me about a youngster in the school system classified as having a disability. It is called ``emotional conflict.'' He was emotionally conflicted. He could not, or would not, behave. An aide would meet him in the morning at his home, get on the bus with him, and go to school, sit through the class all day, and ride home on the school bus with him. This student was known to curse principals and teachers openly in the classroom. Because he was a disabled student, he could not be disciplined in the normal way. The maximum 10-day suspension rule--and 45 days is the maximum a child can be disciplined under this Federal law and then they are back in the classroom. One day, he attacked the school bus driver on the way home. The aide tried to restrain him. He then attacked the  aide. District Attorney Whetstone told me, ``I was never more stunned when I talked to school officials and they told me this is common in our county.'' 
   We have children we cannot control because of this Federal law. He came to Washington, and we sat up in the gallery and talked about it. I respect David Whetstone and his views. He said this cannot be. I began to ask around, is this true? As a matter of fact, this very incident was focused on in Time magazine. There was a full-page story about it called ``The Meanest Kid in Alabama,'' and ``60 Minutes'' did a story about it because it is, unfortunately, so common around the country. 
   What can we do about it? I began to ask leaders in education 
   around the State. The State superintendent: ``Absolutely, it is one of the biggest problems we have.'' I talked to Paul Hubbard, head of the teachers union in Alabama: ``Absolutely, it is a big problem.'' ``I am tired,'' he said in the newspaper recently, ``of children cursing my teachers in the classroom and nothing being done about it.'' 
   Then we began to talk to teachers, principals, and school board superintendents. They talked about the lawyers and the complicated regulations with which they deal. It is really unacceptable. Teachers who have been trained with masters' degrees in special education to deal with these children have also overwhelmingly told me this is not a healthy thing, that we are telling special children with physical disabilities, or disabilities as defined by the Federal law, that they don't have to adhere to the same standards other children do. Right in the classroom, we create, by Federal law, two separate standards for American citizens. You can say to one child: You can't do this, you are out of school. But we can say to another children: You can do it, and you are only out 10 days, or maybe 45 days, and then you are back in the classroom. That is not defensible. 
   I want to share some of the letters I began to receive from teachers who care about this problem and want me and you and the Members of this Congress to do something about it. I believe we can. I hope it will be part of the debate this year in our political arena. Maybe we can make some progress with it. 
   First, I want to mention that when Congress passed the IDEA--Individuals with Disabilities Education Act--in 1975, we committed to pay the States, whom we were requiring to do it--we require these States to meet these standards. We agreed to pay 40 percent of the cost. We have never paid more than 15 percent of the cost. It has been below 10 percent in most years. We had testimony in the Health, Education, and Labor Committee, of which I am a member, from a superintendent in Vermont who testified to our committee that 20 percent of the cost of the school system in his county is for special education children. This is a major factor in education today. Let me share some stories with you about this. 
   An experienced educator in Alabama shared these thoughts with me in a letter:  
   We have a student who is classified emotionally conflicted, learning disabled, and who has attention deficit disorder. While this student has been enrolled, students, teachers, and staff have been verbally threatened with physical harm. Fits of anger, fighting, and outbursts of verbal abuse have been commonplace. Parents and students have expressed concern over the safety of their children due to the behavior of this young man. Teachers have also become extremely apprehensive toward the presence of the student due to his explosive behavior. His misbehavior has escalated to the point that the instructional process of the entire school has been jeopardized.  
   Here is another one:  
   I have taught for 25 years. I plan to continue teaching, but the problems with discipline are getting out of hand. We are not allowed to discipline certain students. Any student labeled as ``special needs'' must be accommodated, not disciplined. A student recently brought a gun to my school. He made threats to students and teachers which he claims were jokes. I was one of those teachers. This student has been disruptive and belligerent since I first encountered him in the ninth grade. Now, he is a senior. After bringing a gun to school, he was given another ``second chance.'' He should have been expelled. What is his handicap? He has a problem with mathematics. While this may be an extreme situation, it is not isolated.  
   Still reading from the letter:  
   Teachers are told to handle discipline in the classroom. The Government has taken most of the teachers' rights away; our hands are tied.  
   This is a letter from a young teacher in a small town of about 25,000 in Alabama. This is a story by which I think anybody would be moved:  
   As a special educator of six years, I consider myself ``on the front lines'' of the ongoing battles that take place on a daily basis in our Nation's schools. I strongly believe that part of the ``ammunition'' that fuels these struggles are the ``right'' guaranteed to certain individuals by IDEA '97. The law, though well intentioned, has become one of the single greatest obstacles that educators face in our fight to provide all of our children with a quality education delivered in a safe environment. There are many examples that I can offer first hand. However, let me reiterate that I am a special educator. I have dedicated my life to helping children with special needs. It is my job to study and know the abilities and limitations of such children. I have a bachelor's degree in psychology, a masters degree in special education and a Ph.D. in good old common sense. No where in my educational process have I been taught a certain few ``disabled'' students should have a ``right'' to endanger the right to an education of all other disabled and non-disabled children. It's non-sense; it's wrong; it's dangerous; and it must be stopped. 
   There is no telling how many instructional hours are lost by teachers in dealing with behavior problems. In times of an increasingly competitive global society it is no wonder American students fall short. Certain children are allowed to remain in the classroom robbing the other children of hours that can never be replaced. 
   There is no need to extend the school day. There is no need to extend the school year. If politicians would just make it possible for educators to take back the time that is lost on a daily basis to certain individuals there is no doubt we would have a better educated students. 
   It is even more frustrating when it is a special education child who knows and boasts ``they can't do anything to me'' and he is placed back in the classroom to disrupt it day after day, week after week. 
   It is clear that IDEA '97 not only undermines the educational process it also undermines the authority of educators. In a time when our profession is being called upon to protect our children from increasingly dangerous sources our credibility is being stripped from us. 
   I am sure you have heard the saying: The teachers are scared of the principals, the principals are scared of the superintendents, the superintendents are scared of the parents, the parents are scared of the children, and the children are scared of no one. And why should they be? 
   I have experienced the ramifications of the ``new and improved'' law first hand. I had one child attempt to assault me--he had been successful with two other teachers. He was suspended for one day. I had another child make sexual gestures to me in front of the entire class. Despite the fact that every child in my class and a majority of the children in the school knew of it, I was told by my assistant principal that nothing could be done because ``these special ed kids have rights.'' 
   I literally got in my car to leave that day, but my financial obligations to my family and my moral responsibilities to the children I had in my class kept me there. 
   The particular child I spoke about frequently made vulgar comments and threats to my girls in my class on every opportunity he had when there was no adult present. Fortunately, the girls, also special ed, could talk to me about it. Unfortunately, they had to put up with it because ``nothing could be done.'' 
   I know of a learning disabled child who cut a girl in a fight. The learning disabled child and her parents then attempted to sue the school system because the child was burned when she grabbed a coffee pot to break it over the other child's head. I know of another specific incident where three children brought firearms to school. The two ``regular'' children where expelled. The special education student was back to school the following week. 
   I fully expect that you and your colleagues in Washington will do what it takes to take our schools back from this small group of children who feel it is their right to endanger the education of every other child in school. As my grandmother said, ``right is right and wrong is wrong'' and to enable this to continue is just wrong.  
   She does have a right to expect Members of this Congress to confront this issue and not allow it to continue. 
   This is a letter from a town in Alabama with a population of 20,000, or so, from another special education teacher.  
   As a special educator teacher for 27 years, may I applaud your efforts to make special education students as accountable as any other student for any behavior they exhibit while in school. I fully support the idea that just because they are students in need of special education services that it in no way diminishes their ability to tell right from wrong. When teachers and administrators cannot provide some type of appropriate  punishment, then the students are taught that their behavior has no consequences. Just the other day, we had a student, who had been offered detention to avoid mission school time, he responded that they could just go ahead and suspend him because he was not going to come to school on Saturday and that it was not going to hurt his grades because ``he'' was allowed to make up all the work. When students find out about this ``loophole'' then they often feel they have free reign to do or say whatever they feel and that there is nothing that anyone can do.  
   He is correct about that. This is a Federal law. We provide 7 percent of the cost of education in America. But we don't hesitate to mandate these kinds of rules in every school system in the country.  
   There federal rules often make teaching very difficult and it penalizes the students who come to school to try and improve themselves.  
   He is teaching a class of special education students, and wants all of them to learn. Many of them are there trying to learn, and they find it more difficult because of these rules.  
   I feel that for the best interest of the students and of the entire education population, changes in this policy must take place.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to speak after Senator ABRAHAM. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am excited and pleased about the direction this Senate is attempting to go in reforming Federal involvement and participation in education today. 
   I have been traveling my State since January. I have been in 15 different schools. I have been impressed with what the teachers and principals are trying to do. There are a lot of good things happening in a lot of schools all over America. But I hear more and more frustration from those people who are dealing with our children in our classrooms, who know our children's names, who are answerable to our people in our communities to run education. They are very frustrated that what we are doing in Washington complicates their lives, makes them more difficult, and frustrates their ability to actually teach children. 
   I know some of my friends on the other side of the aisle so frequently use the word ``accountability.'' They say ``we need accountability--accountability.'' I have been listening to that. Not too long ago it finally dawned on me--I have been in this body for just over 3 years, on the Education Committee just over 1 year--what they define as accountability. They define accountability as a Federal program that mandates precisely how the money is spent. 
   That is not accountability. Accountability is, when money is coming from the Federal Government, the State government, the city government, and the county government: Is learning occurring? Are children learning? We need to determine in America if children are learning. In some schools they are and in other schools they are not, or there is so little learning as to be, in effect, a waste of our money. To pour more money, even with targeted rules from the Federal Government, into a school system in Alabama, Texas, Pennsylvania, or New York is not the way to improve learning. That is not accountability. 
   We need to ask ourselves, after 35 years of this basic Elementary and Secondary Education Act--and it is a primary Federal act; there are some 700 programs for education. ESEA is the biggest. We have been growing it for 35 years. It is now up to 1,000 pages of rules and regulations and paperwork that fall on our teachers and principals. 
   I have been talking intensely to those people. They do not believe it is necessary. They believe many of the things we are doing complicate their lives, make it more difficult for them to teach, and frustrate them. In fact, we are, as many people know, losing a lot of good teachers. Discipline problems, paperwork problems, lack of appreciation for the work they are doing, no difference between a great teacher who works at night, does his homework, meets with students after school, prepares carefully written tests--there is no difference in what they get paid from a teacher who has no interest in their work, just comes to class, presides over it, does not do a lesson plan, gives weak or almost insignificant tests, and does not worry about whether the children are learning or not. 
   I was in Selma, AL, last Friday, visiting the Selma City School System. Selma has 45,000 people. They created a sixth grade school. They call it the Discovery School. The teachers and principals got together and developed a program on how to improve learning for the city of Selma. All the sixth grades were there. Every student has to be involved in an artistic endeavor. I saw their ballet performance. I saw their tap dance performance. They have music, art, and other forms of artistic endeavor. They believe, as national statistics show, that music and art can enhance learning in other courses. That is their decision, and they have teachers who are committed to it and excited about it. They were very proud of the performance of those kids. 
   I went into a class called sports math. Sports is big in Alabama and in a lot of States. Kids are interested in sports. When one talks about batting average, that includes people's weight, height--all these factors. This is a good way to take children's natural interest in an event such as sports and convert that to a learning process of math. It is an extra class they can do. 
   I met a teacher who had gone to Russia with our NASA program. She taught a special class on space, and they were excited about that. 
   They had some great teachers there. I met the mother of Doc Robinson. Doc Robinson--of course, sports fans might know him--is the senior graduating guard from Auburn University, one of the top teams in the country this year. He will probably go in the first, second, or third round of the NBA draft. His mother teaches in Selma. She is a wonderful lady and excited about education in that school. 
   What is it that makes us think we can develop some plan for 
   teaching sixth graders in Selma, AL, better than those people? That is a question we need to ask ourselves. What is it that makes us think we can mandate more effectively than they can? They care about their children. They are their own children. Doc Robinson graduated from that Selma school system, just as other children did. 
   That is an important factor for us to consider. I know there has been a lot of thought about how we are going to handle other issues people think are important. One of the issues that has been talked about a lot is class size. They say class size is the most important thing. Numbers do not show that to be the most important thing. They do not show that. There is a lot of debate about that. Maybe it is extremely important under certain circumstances. It may not be so important in other circumstances. 
   Maybe the Selma school system would rather create this new Discovery School and work on funding it for the next 2 or 3 years, get it straightened out, and then add a new teacher to reduce class size the third year down the road. I am not prepared to say what it is. 
   Why do we not think we ought to trust the people who elected us to run the school system? They elected the school system. There is a lot that has been said about this. 
   There has been a study by Michigan Professor Linda Lim who did comparative studies of U.S. and Asian schools and found that class sizes of 50--and we are down around 20 or fewer now--50 plus in places such as Taiwan have not kept those schools from performing better than ours. The basics of Professor Lim's findings are that nothing--not spending per student, not class size, not computer access--makes the critical difference in the end. Rather, motivation is what matters. We need parental involvement, plus teachers who want to teach and are skilled and children who are prepared to learn. They must all work together to achieve results. 
   We talk a lot in our State about improving textbooks. I think we ought to improve textbooks. I am very concerned about the quality of our textbooks. A year or so ago, Senator ROBERT BYRD delivered one of the most impressive speeches I ever heard on education. He called the modern textbooks ``touchy-feely twaddle.'' 
   Regardless, what difference does it make if we have a $500 textbook for every child in the classroom and those students will not read it? That is what I ask students when I talk with them. Alabama has a tough graduation exam. If a student does not meet this exam, they will not get their diploma. It is considered to be the toughest exam in America. The children are worried about it. A substantial number may not pass. 
   When I talked with these students, they expressed their concerns to me, to which I enjoyed listening. I asked them: Do you come to school in the morning, and do you get a good night's rest? Do you pay attention in class? Do you do the homework your teacher assigns? Do you read your lesson at night? Oh, you don't? Do you know students who do not do that? And they all agreed that they do. I said: Why do you think you should get a diploma from high school if you do not at least put in your part? 
   What we are finding, and what a lot of experts believe, is that a teacher who can motivate a child is more important than whether he is teaching 18 people or 25 people. That is a key factor.  
   There is a study by the University of Rochester economist Eric Hanushek. He studied 277 separate published studies on the effect of teacher-pupil ratios and class-size averages on student achievement. 
   We ought to get a pretty good result from this. They published this all over America. He found this: That only 15 percent of those studies suggested there is a statistically significant improvement in achievement as a result of smaller classes; 72 percent of the studies found no effect at all. That is surprising to me. I would not have thought that. But that is what he found. And he found that 13 percent found reducing class size had a negative impact on achieving. That was reported in the Education Week, a journal of professional educators. 
   The Department of Education, under President Clinton, reports that although American students lag behind other students in international testing, American classrooms have an average size of 23 students. That is very few students compared with the averages of 49 in South Korea, 44 in Taiwan, and 36 in Japan. 
   I am not saying we ought to increase our class sizes. I think having a small class size is fine. But for this Congress to mandate to professional educators, Governors, State superintendents, county superintendents, and principals all over America that we are going to give you money only for reducing class size is not wise. I am telling you, America, that is not a good thing for us to require, to mandate. In a particular community, that may not be the most important thing. There are some real numbers that question that policy. 
   Washington, DC, this city of which we are a part, has an average class size below the national average. Yet it ranks near the bottom in academic achievement. Furthermore, we should not forget that class size in American schools dropped from 30 in 1961 to 23 in 1998 without any improvement in standardized test scores. 
   So I would suggest maybe having superior teachers and motivating schools are the things we need to be looking for. That is not going to come from some Senator in Washington or the President of the United States but from actual teachers in classrooms who know our children's names, who care about them as human beings. 
   Indeed, in 1988, the U.S. Department of Education concluded that reducing class size would be expensive and probably ``a waste of money and effort.'' I do not know if it is a waste of effort. I just say this. It may not be the most important part of our budget dollar. 
   We are trying to do that in Alabama. We are working hard to reduce class sizes. We are actually getting down within this national goal range already. But it does come at great cost. 
   What if you have 18 classrooms in a school, and they are averaging 25 students per classroom, and you want to bring it down to 20 students per class or 18 students per class? How many more classrooms do you have to build? How many more teachers do you have to hire? How much more air-conditioning and structure and upkeep is required? I am just saying, we do not know enough to mandate that. That is all. 
   I know the polling numbers look good. You go out and ask the American people: What would you like to do about schools? You give them a bunch of choices, one being: Reduce class size. They say: Yes, I would like to reduce class size. 
   Before I looked at these numbers, I would have thought there would be a much greater correlation between smaller class size and learning in a classroom than there apparently is shown by all the statistical data. 
   I am just saying, we do not need to be reacting to polling data. We do not need to run a poll and ask what is the No. 1 idea somebody might have to improve education, and then do only that, after looking at the numbers and finding out that might not be the best approach. 
   Of course, teacher quality is something about which Senator MACK and others have been talking. How can we nurture that? I taught 1 year in a sixth grade class in the public schools of Alabama. My wife taught a number of years. Our kids have gone through schools in the State and had a good experience. My two daughters graduated from a major public high school in the city of Mobile. We have been to the PTA meetings at Murphy High School. We named our dog Murphy. We loved our high school and participated in it. My daughters were editors of The Annual. They also attended other schools in the city. We were involved in that. 
   We want to see the quality of education improve, but it is not always what somebody might say in response to a polling question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent to speak for 2 additional minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, with regard to the quality of teachers, that is where we need to focus. Senator MACK has offered this amendment as a breakthrough to try to have some merit pay. I am telling you, I have taught. My wife has taught. We have been active in schools. Everybody who knows anything about education, who has had children in school, knows that some teachers give so much more and are so much more valuable than others who have maybe lost their enthusiasm or just do not have the capability. That is quite clear. 
   To say to those exceptional teachers, who are being sought by high-tech computer companies and chemical firms, that we cannot pay them any more money, that they have to receive the exact same pay as somebody who does not perform as well, is not good policy, not if we care about learning. 
   But if we care about bureaucracy, if we care about the educational establishment in Washington--if we care about that --if that is who is jerking our chain, then we do not give more pay to people who do better, then we do not give more pay to people who give their heart and soul to it, as I know they do. 
   I have been a member of a supper club in the city of Mobile for a long time, over 25 years. Three of those people are full-time career teachers. I know how hard they work. I know how concerned they are for their children. Some teachers are just not that way. 
   So why is that proposal so threatening? It would not be mandated. It would allow a certain amount of this money to be used for special merit pay. What is wrong with allowing a school system to do that? I think that is an important matter. I am delighted that amendment has been offered. It will be adopted and become law. We need to do that. 
   According to a Fordham Foundation study called ``Better Teachers: Better Schools,'' we know that if students have teachers who have college degrees and have been specifically certified to teach math, those students score significantly 
   higher on standardized tests than if the teacher did not have those credentials. 
   Why shouldn't we pay more? Do you know what we do for the military? We are finding we need pilots, so we give them special bonuses to reenlist. We find we need special skills in certain computer areas, so we are allowing the military to pay more money for that. 
   How are we going to keep math teachers who are in such demand in the private sector today, if they are exceptionally well trained and capable? How can we deny them any additional pay when we need them so desperately in the schools? 
   I think we ought to look at that and improve on that. 
   The Fordham study also points out that approaches focusing on inputs, courses taken, time requirements met, time spent, and activities engaged in, rather than on outputs, student achievement, how they are learning, and what their scores are on tests, are counterproductive. 
   Do you see what that is saying? That is saying we should not put our money just on going through the motions of education. We should not invest our money in that. What we need to do is identify the kind of education in which learning occurs, where students are improving in their knowledge and support that--output, not input, issues. 
   So if our bill were to pass and become Federal law, we would begin to focus on the outputs of academic achievement by poor students because ESEA is primarily focused on the poor, low-income schools and low-income students instead of focusing on inputs. 
   The Teacher Empowerment Act--and Senator GREGG will speak about that--  is so important in that regard. I will mention one more point, and I see the Senator from Oklahoma is prepared to speak. 
   Let me mention this. I have been in, as I said, 15 schools, and I am familiar with public schools in this country. I will tell you, one of the most significant problems we face is the ability of teachers to discipline children. They have been denied that by lawyers--Federal rules and regulations--and it is disrupting the classrooms and making it difficult to teach. 
   I have a stack of probably 40 letters here, some of which would break your heart, from teachers who tell me stories. I intend to read some of them before the debate is over, perhaps a lot of them. I want people to hear what is happening in schools in America today. You may say it is the teacher's fault. What we will find out is that a lot of the reasons they can't maintain discipline in school is because of Federal law, what we do here under the Disability Act. We were supposed to fund 40 percent of the cost of that when the law was mandated; we were supposed to pay 40 percent. The truth is that the Federal Government now is paying 11 percent of the cost. Yet it is a full mandate on our schools in America. 
   Schools have met the challenge. They are doing what we tell them to do, at a great cost. We had the superintendent of a school system in Vermont testify at an education hearing that 20 percent of his school system costs--20 percent at least--was focused on disability students. We have gone beyond what we meant by that. 
   Originally, our goal was to make sure that children who were deaf, blind, or in a wheelchair would be allowed to participate fully, mainstreaming them in the classrooms in America. I certainly support that. 
   What has happened now is under the Federal regulation, children declared disabled are not allowed to be disciplined, and the children are learning this; they know it. It is really a problem, which these letters will show. 
   Unfortunately, it has now been twisted beyond its original intent. Teachers and principals are faced with regulations and laws that must be utilized before a disruptive or even violent child may be removed from a classroom--even for a short period. We should not continue these kinds of rules and regulations that keep schools from dealing with disruptive, aggressive, violent, gun-toting students. 
   I have continually received complaints about the problem in every school I go to. They say it is the No. 1 problem with the Federal Government. My friend, David Whetstone, in Baldwin County--and I have known Dave for a long time from when I was a former U.S. Attorney and State attorney general. He came to Washington personally to talk to me about this story. We discussed a case which received national attention in both Time Magazine and on ``60 Minutes,'' in which a student was described as the ``meanest kid in Alabama.'' 
   My friend, Dave Whetstone, told me of the circumstances in which this violent, disruptive young man was kept in the classroom under these Federal laws. I want to tell you what happened to this young man and see if you don't understand why teachers and principals are concerned about what we do here. 
   The school had to assign an aide to this young man because he was declared emotionally conflicting. That is a disability, 
   apparently. He had to stay with him all day long throughout the school day. The aide would get on the schoolbus with him in the morning, sit with him in class all day, and go home on the schoolbus at the end of the day because of his disruptive behavior. The aide had to be paid by the school board, of course, and the taxpayers of the community. Can you imagine what it was like being a teacher in that situation? The student used curse words in class on a regular basis and to the principal on a regular basis and was continuously disruptive. But our Federal law said, basically, he had to stay in the classroom. 
   Eventually, the young man was going home one afternoon on the schoolbus and reportedly attacked the bus driver. When the aide tried to restrain him, he attacked the aide. 
   My friend, the prosecutor, brought a creative legal action against the student to try to stop it. He was shocked to find out that was a law in the public schools of America. He found that there were at least six other students in that one school system with the same type problems. 
   I have received letters from experienced educators all over the State of Alabama expressing their concern about this Federal regulation. 
   Let me mention a few other experiences. None of these come from the same school. This is a quote from a letter:  
   We have a student who is classified emotionally conflicted, learning disabled, and who has Attention Deficit Disorder. While this student has been enrolled, students, teachers and staff have been verbally threatened with physical harm. Fits of anger, fighting, and outbursts of verbal abuse have been commonplace. Parents and students have expressed concern over the safety of their children due to the behavior of the young man. Teachers have also become extremely apprehensive toward the presence of the student due to his explosive behavior. His misbehavior has escalated to the point that the instructional process of the entire school has been jeopardized.  
   Another one:  
   I have taught for 25 years. I plan to continue teaching, but the problems with discipline are getting out of hand. We are not allowed to discipline certain students. Any student labeled as ``special needs'' must be accommodated, not disciplined. A student recently brought a gun to my school. He made threats to students and teachers, which he claimed were jokes. I was one of the teachers.  
   The teacher was threatened with a gun.  
   This student has been disruptive and belligerent since I first encountered him in the ninth grade. Now he is a senior. After bringing a gun to school, he was given another ``second chance.'' He should have been expelled. What was his handicap? He has had problems with mathematics. While this may be an extreme situation, it is not isolated. Teachers are told to handle discipline in the classroom. The Government has taken most of the teachers' rights away, our hands are tied.  
   Talk to teachers. Many special education teachers have told me that the discipline proceedings are going to drive them out of the profession. I believe it will be a tragedy if we lose proven, dedicated teachers because of shortcomings of a Federal law that is not fulfilling its purpose. 
   That is not the purpose of the Disabilities Act--to keep violent, disruptive kids in the classroom when they are disrupting the teacher's ability to teach and learning isn't 
   occurring. This is not restricted to any State; it is all over the country. That is why in the past, Senators ASHCROFT, FRIST, GORTON, and others have worked hard to end this problem. We must continue to do so. 
   Mr. President, I know others would like to speak at this time. There is so much that we need to talk about. I would like to, and will, share in a few minutes, perhaps, a letter from a young teacher in an elementary school class who talks about the day she walked out of that classroom, walked through the parking lot, got in her car, never to return--because of this kind of stuff. It is happening. We need to put an end to it, and we can do it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, as the Senator knows and as I understand, the Government said it desires to fully fund this. It is not meeting the commitment that it made. Is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. In terms of the overall education budget, it is small in cost. But for those schools impacted, it is a very big deal for them. 
   I thank the Senator for his leadership. I think this is an important issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Alaska. I appreciate his leadership on this issue. 
   I see the poster the Senator from Nevada has of a train wreck. But I have heard many others say on this floor that if a train carrying nuclear waste wrecks, the nuclear waste doesn't blow up; it just lies on the ground. There was once a train with chemicals on board wreck about 200 yards from my mother's house. That was a very dangerous train wreck; with explosions and chemicals leaking into the air and on the ground. Had it been nuclear waste, it would have been sealed up and would not have blown up, or have gone into the air, or seeped onto the ground. It would have just sat there--posing little risk to people or the environment. 
   It is just not that dangerous to transport. In fact, as Senator DOMENICI has noted, ships and submarines with nuclear fuel in them ply the oceans every day. Those ships use the same fuel and create the very same nuclear waste which we are looking to dispose of today. 
   I will note that this debate is a political issue. There was an excellent film on global warming on ``Frontline'' about 2 weeks ago. Basically, they concluded our energy needs could not be met and our environmental needs could not be met without nuclear energy. There was no other conclusion you could reach from watching that, but an activist who opposed nuclear energy said the main reason she opposed it was because we could not get rid of the waste. That is an absolutely bogus argument. 
   We have the ability to solve this problem. But until we do, we have, in effect, shut off our ability to produce a cleaner environment and get on with emission free energy production at a reasonable cost. 
   The President has noted, in the State of the Union, that we have to do something about global warming. He attempted to get us to ratify the Kyoto treaty to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 7 percent from the 1990 levels. But this Senate, voted unanimously, 95-0, against the agreement. 
   Our greenhouse gas emissions have gone up 8 percent since 1990. So to meet the Kyoto agreement, we would have to have over a 15-percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions between now and 2012. There is no way that can be done without nuclear power. 
   The Energy Information Agency predicts a 30-percent increase in demand in electricity in this country by the year 2015. 20 percent of our power today comes from nuclear energy. France produces over 60 percent, and Japan, nearly 50 of its electricity from nuclear power sources. 
   Between 1973 and 1997, nuclear power generation avoided the emission of 82.2 million tons of sulfur dioxide and 37 million tons of nitrous oxide into the atmosphere. In 1997 alone, emissions of sulfur dioxide would have been about 5 million tons higher and emissions of nitrogen oxide, 2.4 million tons higher, had fossil fuel generation replaced nuclear. Billions of tons of carbon and millions of tons of methane--believed to be the most significant greenhouse gas--are not emitted because of nuclear power. The building blocks of ozone, a proven irritant and health risk to sensitive children and the elderly, is not emitted at all by nuclear power plants. Ozone precursors are emitted in all other fossil production of power. 
   Sixteen percent of the world's electricity is coming from nuclear power, but we here in the U.S. have a strained situation because we cannot dispose of the waste. This problem drives up the cost of nuclear power which makes this cleanest of all power generation sources almost uneconomical. Certainly, one of the main reasons we are not building any new plants today is because of our inability to solve the waste problem. 
   Even as some in the environmental movement are changing their views on nuclear power, the Vice President is not. In the April 22, edition of the Congressional Quarterly:  
   Vice President Gore stated he does ``not support an increased reliance on nuclear power for electricity production'' but would ``keep open the option of relicensing nuclear power plants.''  
   I visited the Tennessee Valley Authority's existing plant a few weeks ago in north Alabama. They set a record for safe operation without one shut down in over 500 days. It produces no environmental discharge. One thousand workers are there, quite happy, making excellent wages and providing a steady, 24-hour-a-day supply of clean electricity for the Tennessee Valley Authority. 
   That is good for this country. It means we are not having to burn coal. It means we are not having to import oil to generate our power. 
   But members of the Administration are not unanimous in their position on nuclear power. In 1998, Under Secretary of State Stuart Eizenstat remarked:  
   I believe very firmly that nuclear has to be a significant part of our energy future and a large part of the Western world if we're going to meet these emission reduction targets. Those who think we can accomplish these goals without a significant nuclear industry are simply mistaken.  
   Another administration official, Ambassador John Ritch, speaking to the North Atlantic Assembly said:  
   The reality is that, of all energy forms--  
   This is the President's own appointee--  
   capable of meeting the world's expanding energy needs, nuclear power yields the least and most easily managed waste.  
   I agree with Senator DOMENICI. We are almost at the point of lunacy if we cannot choose a place in the desert of this country--where we had hundreds of bombs exploded while developing our nuclear weaponry--to bury nuclear waste deep down a tunnel, under a solid rock mountain and secure it there. What is it that we cannot do? We are storing this waste in hundreds of nuclear powerplants all over America and we cannot put it out in the desert and seal it up, yet we have ships traveling all over the world powered by nuclear energy that have this same spent fuel in them? 
   This is not wise. I call on the people of this country to rethink our position on nuclear power. There are 40,000 tons of spent nuclear fuel stored in 71 sites around this country. We have the ability to safely solve this waste problem and move ahead with a viable nuclear program to supply clean, low cost energy to our country. 
   I thank the Chair and the distinguished chairman of this committee for his excellent work. I do hope this veto will not be sustained. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000502</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from New Hampshire. He served on the Education Committee for a number of years. You can see the passion, the conviction, and the knowledge he brings to bear on this issue, as the Chair himself has done over the years. 
   It is time for some changes. The Elementary and Secondary Education Act was passed as part of President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society in 1965. 
   I have been in schools in Alabama. I have talked to teachers. I have been in 18 schools in Alabama since January 1 of this year. 
   I was in Selma, AL, just Friday afternoon and spent some time with the new and innovative school they have created. All of the sixth grade is in one building. They call it a ``discovery school.'' They emphasize art, music, and special programs that give the kids electives. But the faculty has gotten together and created a system in which those electives are very substantive.  One of the classes was sports math for kids who like sports. There is a lot of useful mathematics in sports. They are teaching them batting averages and how to calculate all sorts of factors relating to sports programs. That was their idea. 
   The faculty of that school got together with the principal in the town of Selma to create a better way to educate sixth graders in that community. 
   We are not capable of doing that here. We will have to vote one day on the defense budget. 
   We have never been elected to run education in America. We were not elected to do that. The same people who elect us, as the Senator from Washington many times has eloquently said, elected our school board leaders to run education in our communities. They didn't elect us to run education. They elect them to run education. Education is fundamentally a local State community project. It needs to be done by people who know our children's names, who care about them, who know the school buildings, who know the offices. 
   We are not doing that. We are trying to micromanage education from Washington. We have 700 Federal Government education programs in this country. Imagine that, 700. We talk about empowering schools to develop plans of excellence, and some of our friends from the Democratic side say we don't believe in accountability. 
   It finally dawned on me, their definition of ``accountability'' is a Federal mandate stating precisely how the money has to be spent in their school system. They define that as accountability. That is not accountability. We are pouring millions of dollars into schools in which learning is not occurring. Under all these programs and all the grants and the 700 programs, nobody knows whether or not learning is occurring. 
   That is not exactly so. We are beginning to understand that learning is not occurring in many of the schools. Children are operating far below their grade level. That is no longer acceptable. 
   We need a system of real accountability, a system that tells the American people and parents whether or not learning is occurring. We don't want some national test that will be pushed on every school. In Alabama, we have a very tough new testing system in the 4th, 8th and 12th grade. Students do not get their diploma if they do not take the test and pass. Kids are getting worried. I asked a teacher in Selma the other day did they think kids were actually wising up and were their parents getting more energized and were they aware they were not going to get their diploma unless they met certain minimum standards. The teacher said teachers and parents understand it, children understand it, and they are doing a better job of doing their homework and taking learning more seriously instead of just going through the motions of going to school every day and expecting the diploma to be handed to them when they finish school. 
   I remember somebody talked about textbooks and how good our textbooks ought to be. What good is a $500 textbook, the best words ever written, if the child is not going to read and is not motivated to read it and the parents are not engaged in helping them read it and there is no sense of urgency or motivation in learning? 
   Obviously, that is the key to education in America. We will not mandate from Washington, DC. It has to come from the local communities. That is consistent with what modern management is all about. 
   The Senator from New Hampshire indicated this is old thinking: Run any business from the top down. Every good CEO knows, that all the new management techniques are to empower people at the lowest level who are actually doing the job that is necessary for success. You empower them, motivate them, and encourage them to use their creative power to do that job better every day. That is what we ought to do with an education bill. That is so fundamental to me as to be without dispute. 
   I taught 1 year in the sixth grade in the public school. My wife taught a number of years. It was a great time but challenging. Our teachers are working desperately to try to educate on a daily basis. Sometimes our regulations and paperwork are unnecessarily adding to their daily burdens. They complain to me about it at every school I visit. I always try to visit classrooms, talk to the principal and try to have an hour or so 
   with a teacher just to talk to them about what they think is important. They are complaining to me about Federal paperwork on a regular basis at every school. They say it is much too burdensome and unnecessary, and it keeps them from doing what they would like to do to improve education in their school. 
   I am excited about this legislation. We have, in this Congress, increased funding for education every year. We spent more last year on education than the President asked for. We believe in education. We want children to learn. We are not here to feather the nests of bureaucrats. I know people get scared when we talk about a system that doesn't guarantee this program will continue as it has for 35 years. It scares people. The people who are working in those programs are talented and they will be needed in our school system. People are not going to be fired. But we need changes. Every business, every government agency needs to make some changes. Thirty-five years is enough. After 35 years, it is time we reevaluate what we are doing and make some decisions. 
   We want to see education improve. What does that mean? That means learning is occurring. When children go to class in September and come out in May, they have learned something. The more they have learned during that time, the better we are as a nation. This is critical. We have to figure out how to do that. We will not do it by polling data from Washington setting up 701 Government programs. That is not the way to do it. We have to, with humility, recognize our limits as a Senate and as a Congress. We have to trust the people we have elected in our local communities to run our education systems. We have to encourage parents to be involved in education, both in the schools and in their children's homework and learning. We have to insist local schools have testing programs that actually determine whether or not they are getting better in their mathematics, reading, English, and science. 
   We want them to improve. We don't want to be at the bottom of the world in test scores in science and mathematics. That is not acceptable in the greatest nation the world has ever known. We cannot allow that to continue. But it will not be business as usual. There will have to be some changes. This legislation will give States an option, a chance to say to the Federal Government, let us try, give us the free reign to run. Let us present to you a program of excellence. Our teachers have signed on, our principals have signed on, the community has signed on. We will have the special sixth grade, this discovery school for sixth graders, and they will learn a lot of different things, including, as they did in Selma, dance, ballet, tap, and music as part of their education curriculum. We believe children will learn better. We know these children. We love this community. We love this school. Give us a chance to do some of these things and inculcate that as part of their schooling. 
   I believe we will see progress. I believe that is the only way we will see progress. I am excited that what has been produced by this Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions--and this is my first year serving on that committee. I believe this is a good step in the right direction. We will be sending more Federal dollars than ever before to our classroom. We will be sending it down to the classroom, to the principals and teachers who know our children's names. We will be challenging them to provide programs of excellence in which actual learning occurs. 
   That is what we should do. I thank Chairman JEFFORDS and the others who have worked on it. 
   I see Senator HUTCHINSON, who has been such an outstanding champion of these values. We have worked together on a number of issues. He shares our concerns about empowering our teachers and helping them as they teach in the classroom. We can do better, and this bill is a step in that direction. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to proceed as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, last night Senator JOHN WARNER, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, was the recipient of the James Forrestal Memorial Award at a gathering of 900 distinguished leading individuals involved in the industrial and military affairs of this Nation. It was awarded last night in Washington. The Forrestal award has been given since 1954 to distinguished Americans who most effectively applied Secretary Forrestal's ideas of a close working relationship between the Government and the requirements of a strong national defense. Other recipients were George Bush, Sam Nunn, Scoop Jackson, John Tower, Barry Goldwater, John Stennis and, I believe, our Presiding Officer, the distinguished Senator from Alaska, TED STEVENS. 
   The award is given to a citizen of the United States who may be from the military services, government, or industry. Senator WARNER was honored last night with the Forrestal award for his distinguished public service relating to national security and national defense in a wide range of responsibilities. All of us in the Senate know that Senator WARNER was a former Navy enlisted man in World War II, enlisting as a 17-year-old, then serving again in Korea as a marine officer. I have heard him say he has gone through two basic trainings, both Navy and Marine. 
   Later, during the cold war era, JOHN served his Nation as Secretary of the Navy. His service to the Nation in this body began in 1978, and he has been on the Senate Armed Services Committee ever since, a total of 21 years. I know that JOHN enjoyed being honored by 900 of his friends and companions who 
   provide the equipment our soldiers and sailors, marines and airmen use every day to maintain a strong national defense. 
   JOHN's public thanks to those in industry and in the services is an expression of thanks from all of us in Congress. I associate myself with his remarks that he made so eloquently last evening. 
   There is no one in this body who cares more about the men and women in uniform, our military retirees, and our veterans than JOHN WARNER. There is no one more committed to the defense of this Nation. The markup of our committee's bill for defense will be undertaken next week, and the debate on this floor will show, without question, the depth of Senator JOHN WARNER's commitment to the Nation. 
   We owe men such as JOHN WARNER our gratitude for leading us in times of turmoil. There have been many in history who have provided this kind of essential leadership. We are part of JOHN's team. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I am proud of him, his leadership and his friendship. Congratulations, JOHN, on being the recipient of the year 2000 James Forrestal Memorial Award. 
   I have the honor of serving with Senator WARNER on the Armed Services Committee. He is a gentleman's gentleman, a patriot's patriot. He is proud of being able to preside this year over a budget that produced the first real increase in defense spending in 15 years, a 4.8-percent pay raise for our men and women in uniform. It was a real accomplishment. 
   I have been honored to serve with him. I share with this body my pride in his being selected for this prestigious award. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 512, S. Res. 287. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution and preamble be agreed to, en bloc, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating thereto be printed in the RECORD, without intervening action. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 515, S. 1946. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the committee amendments be agreed to, the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 299, submitted earlier by Senator MCCONNELL and Senator DODD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following military nominations reported by the Armed Services Committee today: 484 through 495, and all nominations on the Secretary's desk in the Air Force, Army, Marine Corps, and Navy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 10 a.m. on Monday, May 1. I further ask unanimous consent that on Monday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed to have expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate begin a period for morning business with Senators speaking therein for up to 5 minutes each until the hour of 10:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the motion to proceed to S.J. Res. 3 now be withdrawn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I announce that it will be the majority leader's intention to turn to S. 1608, the Craig-Wyden timber bill, at 10:30 a.m. on Monday. It is the leader's hope that the bill can be concluded in a couple of hours on Monday. However, no votes will occur during Monday's session. Any votes that occur will be postponed to occur on Tuesday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate begin consideration of S. 2, the Elementary and Secondary Education Reauthorization Act, at 1 p.m. on Monday for debate only. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Monday morning, it is the intention of the majority leader to begin consideration of S. 1608, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, the Craig-Wyden bill, hopefully under a time agreement currently being negotiated. Following the disposition of that legislation, at 1 p.m., the Senate will begin consideration of the Elementary and Secondary Education Reauthorization Act. This legislation is very important for our children's education, and it is expected that many Senators will desire to speak on general debate. Vigorous debate is anticipated and therefore the bill will consume most of next week. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order following the remarks of the following Members: Senators FEINSTEIN, LAUTENBERG, FEINGOLD, and WELLSTONE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak in morning business for 7 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000425</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand at this time the President is considering vetoing the nuclear waste bill that passed here by a substantial majority. That is very troubling to me. It is time for us to dispose of nuclear waste. We have the capability. The citizens of America, through their electric bills, have paid billions of dollars to build this waste disposal area out in the Nevada desert to place this nuclear waste--which is not explosive. It is simply radioactive and it is placed in the right kind of containers and will be placed in the ground of the desert of Nevada where we exploded 1,000 bombs on top of the ground in developing our nuclear bombing capability. But every nuclear electric-generating plant in America produces some waste. That waste is being stored on site. We agreed some years ago to create this fund and to store this waste. Now, every time we come to this Senate, every time this debate comes up for a vote, a majority votes for it and the President ends up vetoing it and we fall just short of the number of votes to override that veto. 
   Through an unusual number of circumstances, I have become somewhat familiar with the concerns involving energy and nuclear power in America. I formed a very clear opinion of what we have to do if we are going to meet the demands for power and the demand to clean up the atmosphere. The Kyoto treaty, which the President signed and the Vice President supported, the executive branch made an amazing agreement that we would reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 7 percent from 1990 levels by 2012 or 2010--the exact year escapes me. 
   Since that time, our demand for energy has increased. 
   Since 1990, our emissions of greenhouse gases have increased by 8 percent. By the year 2012, if we were to comply with the agreement the President tried to commit us to, we would have to reduce, from this day, 15 percent of our greenhouse gas emissions when we know our demands for energy are going to increase between now and 2010. This is a box we cannot get out of; not under present plans. 
   There was a marvelous 2-hour show on Sunday night on public television's ``Frontline'' on greenhouse gases and the potential of global warming. They went over all the issues at that time. I think it was tilted slightly more than the science indicates that we are in a period of global warming, but it does appear we may be. We need to be thinking about that. But the scientists and  experts I have talked with say we cannot meet those goals without nuclear power. 
   Mr. President, 20 percent of the electricity in this country is produced by nuclear power, but we have not approved a new plant since the 1970s. France has over 60 percent--soon to be 80 percent--of its power generated by nuclear power. Japan also has a large percentage generated by it. In the United States, we have never lost a life as a result of nuclear power. Nuclear power produces, as you know, no pollution for the atmosphere--zero. Huge amounts--20 percent--of our electric power is produced by nuclear power with no emissions out there. 
   We have a crisis in our energy policy with regard to fuel oil and our domestic production since 1992, when this administration took office. The reason I am talking about that is I believe there is a no-growth, antienergy policy that is made a part of our American policy under the Clinton-Gore administration. They do not believe in production of greater amounts of energy. We have reduced our domestic production of oil by 17 percent since 1992. Yet our demand for oil and gasoline has increased 14 percent. That is a shocking figure. That is why we are so much more dependent on the Middle East, OPEC, for oil and gas. That is why they are able to demand higher prices. Maybe the gas companies added a few cents on a gallon, but almost all of that was a direct result of their demand for oil from the Middle East and Venezuela and the OPEC nations, and we virtually pay double for it. 
   What that means is if your gasoline has gone up from $1 to $1.45 at the gas pump, that extra 45 cents is going outside of America to one of these OPEC nations. It is a drain on the wealth of this country, and I submit it does suggest it could threaten the economic prosperity we are enjoying today. 
   How can we meet our environmental goals? How can we do that without thinking broadly about what is occurring? We heard recently the Vice President saying, with regard to nuclear power, that he does not support an increased reliance on nuclear power for electricity generation. He does not support an increased reliance on nuclear power for electricity generation, but he would keep open the option of relicensing existing nuclear plants. I think that is a stunning statement. That is a no-growth policy. We are going to limit greenhouse emissions but we are not going to allow any increase in nuclear power. 
   Another one of his stunning proposals is to not drill any further for natural gas in the deep Gulf of Mexico. There are great reserves of natural gas there. Natural 
   gas, even if it breaks out of our pipeline, does not pollute as does oil. It is not sticky. It evaporates. It is not a real dangerous pollutant. And when it burns, it is the most efficient burning of all fossil fuels and produces the least amount of pollution. If we move to a cleaner energy source, natural gas is it. But the Vice President, who opposes nuclear power, now is opposing drilling for natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico. That he explicitly stated during his campaign in New Hampshire. In fact, he said he would consider rolling back the leases that have already been issued. So this is a dangerous time for us. 
   I hope we are not moving to make unwise decisions that would, in effect, result in the drying up of our supply of energy and raising the price of energy for every American and having that money go overseas to foreign nations. We need to produce more nuclear power. I will be talking more about that in the future. 
   My plea is to the President: Do not veto this bill. Let's keep America as a strong nuclear-powered country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I was disappointed to hear one of our fine Senators, an able attorney, take the floor just a few minutes ago to commence a new round of attacks, it appears, on the new independent counsel, Mr. Ray. 
   We went through a period of time in which a person in this country was trying to enforce the law, trying to complete his duty as a sworn officer of the court, an individual asked to serve by the Attorney General of the United States, Mr. Starr, who conducted himself with restraint, propriety and fidelity to duty--a thankless task. He then gave up that office. Now it appears that Mr. Ray will be subjected to the same type of remarks. It is really disturbing and frustrating for me to hear that. I hope we don't hear that beginning. He simply made the obvious statement to the paper that the President can be indicted after he leaves office. He said that the investigation is not complete. He is charged with completing the investigation. He has an obligation to complete it, and he should complete it. I don't think anyone would suggest that he ought to stop before the evidence is gathered, that he ought not to fulfill his duty and responsibility that has been given to him. So I am really concerned about that. 
   During the impeachment trial--and I hate to even recall that, but I didn't start this discussion tonight--I remember that those on the other side of the aisle said even if a crime were committed, that would be something a prosecutor would deal with but it did not require us to impeach. Obviously, that is true. People could have believed that crime was committed and that an impeachment vote was not required. But that does not suggest a prosecution should not go forward. We have a principle in this country that is chiseled into the walls of the Supreme Court building: Equal Justice Under Law. 
   The Supreme Court made clear during the Nixon case, and at other times, that no American is above the law. They say, well, you would never prosecute another citizen in America for committing perjury in a civil case. That is silly. Well, I suggest that is not accurate. People are prosecuted for perjury in civil cases. I served as a U.S. attorney for 12 years in Mobile, AL. I remember very distinctly a young police officer who accused the chief of police of corruption. He was his driver. He made allegations in a deposition, and lawsuits were filed against the chief of police in Mobile, AL, who was an African American. They were coming after him. He repeated that under oath, and it turned out to be totally bogus. He eventually admitted it was bogus. He came to me as a U.S. attorney, a Federal prosecutor--it was a Federal lawsuit--and I believed it ought to be prosecuted. We charged that young man for that stupid, perjurious, felonious act. He pleaded guilty to it, as well he should have. 
   I don't know why the President is above that. If he did a crime, he ought to answer for it. I remember when this matter was at one of its intense points, I shared a private conversation with a distinguished Senator on the other side of the aisle. I shared with him that maybe the President ought to just admit he did something wrong, say he did it to the world, say he didn't tell the truth, ask the Congress to not 
   impeach him, ask the American people for forgiveness, and say when he serves his term and walks out of there, he is willing to plead guilty to any crime he committed and ask for the mercy of the court. Now that would have ended the whole thing. That would have taken a manly act on his part, which I didn't really see occur during that time. 
   So I don't know how it ought to be handled. But I don't believe a duly appointed special prosecutor needs to be subjected to abuse on the floor of the Senate for doing what he is instructed to do and charged with doing by the courts of America. And to say it is like Russia, I don't appreciate that one bit. What is like Russia is when leaders lie, cheat, steal, and maintain their office. That is what happens in a country such as Russia, not in a free democracy where all Americans are equal and have a right to know that every other public official is equal and subject to the law just as they are. 
   I am not suggesting I know what the facts are or that Mr. Ray does or does not have a good case. I have been a prosecutor, and I know what you have to do. A prosecutor has to gather the facts. Then if he has a case, he has to put it out before the whole world. If it is not there, he will be remembered for a bogus and unfair prosecution, if he ever got an indictment from a grand jury, which I doubt he would if he didn't have a good case. I am not afraid of the system. The President is subject to the system as is anyone else. 
   I wish we could bring this investigation to a close, but I happen to be on the committee involved in an investigation of various matters involving campaign finance and spying and that sort of thing. Senator SPECTER from  Pennsylvania chairs it, and Senator TORRICELLI is a member. We have an incredibly difficult time getting information and documents from this Government. No wonder it takes Mr. Starr and Mr. Ray so long and they are frustrated at every turn in obtaining evidence they need to make a legitimate decision and present a legitimate case to a grand jury. 
   I wish this were over. I wish we never had to talk about it. I don't intend to raise the subject myself. But as a Federal attorney, I have been in court trying to do my duty. I have made up my mind that I am not going to allow somebody who is doing his duty to gather the evidence and make a decision on whether a case ought to go forward to be abused and compared to somebody in Russia. I am not going to allow that. We need to speak out against that, and I intend to do so at every opportunity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration, en bloc, of the following Energy Committee matters: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that any committee amendments, where applicable, be agreed to, the bills then be considered read the third time and passed, as amended, if amended, any title amendments be agreed to, the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to any of these bills appear at this point in the RECORD, with the above occurring en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask the Chair lay before the Senate a message from the House of Representatives on the bill (H.R. 1753) to promote the research, identification, assessment, exploration, and development of gas hydrate resources, and for other purposes, 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate agree to the amendment of the House to the Senate amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to consideration en bloc of the following Energy Committee matters: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that any committee amendments, where applicable, be agreed to, with the exception of S. 1727, which should be withdrawn, and a substitute amendment to S. 1727, which is at the desk, be agreed to, the bills be read three times and passed, as amended, if amended, any title amendments be agreed to, the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements related to any of these bills be printed in the RECORD, with the above occurring en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 411, S. 1627. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The chairman has two amendments at the desk and I ask they be considered en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the amendments be agreed to en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the committee substitute amendment, as amended, be agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the bill, as amended, be read the third time and passed, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, the amendment to the title be agreed to, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask the Chair lay before the Senate a message from the House of Representatives on the bill (S. 1769) to the reporting requirements of section 2519 of title 18, United States Code, beyond December 21, 1999, and for other purposes, 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Senate concur in the amendments of the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the leader, I ask unanimous consent the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of H.J. Res. 86. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be read the third time and passed, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to this resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask the Chair lay before the Senate a message from the House of Representatives of the bill (S. 1567) to designate the United States courthouse located at 223 Broad Street in Albany, Georgia, as the C.B. King United States Courthouse. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Senate agree to the amendments of the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of H. Con. Res. 269 reported by the Judiciary Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements be printed in the RECORD, including a statement of Senator STEVENS. 
   The preamble was agreed to. 
   The concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 269) was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, notwithstanding the adjournment, the Senate committees have from 11 a.m. until 1 p.m. on Thursday, April 20, in order to file legislative matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the leader, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn under the provisions of H. Con. Res. 303 until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 25. I further ask consent that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then begin to debate on the motion to proceed to S.J. Res. 3, proposing an amendment to the Constitution to protect the rights of crime victims, until 12:30 p.m., with the time equally divided between the two bill managers. 
   I further ask unanimous consent that at the hour of 12:30 p.m. the Senate stand in recess until the hour of 2:15 p.m. in order for the weekly party caucuses to meet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene on Tuesday, April 25, at 9:30 a.m. and immediately begin debate on the motion to proceed to the victims' rights legislation until 12:30 p.m. At 2:15 p.m., when the Senate reconvenes from the weekly party conference luncheons, the Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to S.J. Res 3. If that cloture vote is not invoked, then a second vote will occur on cloture on the marriage penalty bill. It is hoped that cloture will be invoked and debate can begin on the crime victims resolution following the vote. 
   In addition, the leaders will continue to work to resolve the Democratic objections to the marriage penalty bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the provisions of H. Con. Res. 303. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 8:19 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, April 25, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Ten minutes would be fine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Texas for her stalwart leadership in this bill. The President of the United States said in his State of the Union Message that the marriage tax penalty should be eliminated. Polling data shows that the overwhelming number of American citizens believe it should be eliminated. I had a meeting and a press conference with a number of families in Alabama on Monday, and we sat down and talked with them about the struggles they have. One couple had eight children. They are paying additional taxes because they are married. Another couple had just gotten married and had a young child, and they are paying more because they are married. Those are the kinds of things that are unexplainable to the American people. They are unjustifiable in logic, fairness, and justice. On a fundamental basis, the marriage tax penalty is an unfair and unjust tax. It is not that we are doing a tax reduction so much as we are eliminating a basic unfairness. 
   As I have said before, the challenge we are facing today is to create, as Members of this Senate, public policy that improves us as a people, that helps us to be better citizens. On every bill that comes through, every piece of legislation that we consider, we need to ask ourselves: Will this make us better  or improve us as a nation? When we have legislation and laws in force that give a bonus to people to divorce, we have something wrong. 
   I have a friend who went through an unfortunate divorce. They got that divorce in January. I was told: JEFF, had we known about it and thought about it at the time, we could have gotten the divorce in December and we would have saved another $1,600 on our tax bill. 
   The Federal Government is paying a bonus to people who divorce. In effect, that is what our public policy does. If they are married, they are paying a penalty. It is $1,600, according to CBO, for an average family who pays this penalty, and $1,400, according to the Treasury Department, President Clinton's own Treasury Department, that says the families who pay this penalty pay an average of almost $100 per month. That is a lot of money. That is tax-free money that they could utilize to fix their automobile, get a set of tires, go to the doctor, take the kids to a ball game, or buy them a coke after a game, or go to a movie, and do the kinds of things families ought to do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am not sure about any bonus factor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Well, 21 million, I believe, pay more taxes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is perhaps so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It is a factor, as the Senator indicated, relative to the income that each person earns. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will just say this. The Senator is correct in saying this legislation deals with the penalty provision and does not attempt to increase taxes on married couples, to try to reach some sort of ideal level. 
   It is designed to provide relief from the penalty that occurs. 
   Does the Senator propose that we increase the taxes on those who may be paying less because they are married? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. We are solving the marriage tax penalty problem. You may be complaining about the bonus some might get. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think it would be a matter of some discussion if the Senator would like to have some hearings in the Finance Committee on whether or not these bonuses occur. I don't think they are as substantial as the penalties may be. They are not. But, at any rate, if the Senator wants to have hearings on whether they ought to be raised, then I think that is something that is worthy of evaluation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. We have a problem when two people are working and they are making $30,000 a year--just two, a man and woman. They fall in love. They get married. At $30,000 a year each, they end up paying about $800 more a year, which is $60 or $80 a month in extra tax simply for getting married. I want to eliminate that. If somebody wants to deal with the other problem, they can. 
   Frankly, I am beginning to observe there is a feeling on the other side that this bill needs to go away, that people are not willing to confront it directly. I hope that is not so. I hope we can see this legislation go forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is exactly all it does. Does the Senator disagree? This bill eliminates the penalty. That is what it intends to do. That is what the President says he supports. That is what the Senator from Montana says he supports. That is it. 
   I have the floor. I will yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would be glad to hear the Senator's question on the point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-14-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. We are paying down the national debt in record amounts. As the Senator knows, we are down $175 billion this year. That will continue. The tax reduction that would be affected by this bill represents only, let us say, a small fraction of the total surplus we will be looking at in the next number of years. 
   If these so-called bonuses that the Senator refers to are primarily given to the one-income earner couple where a mother stays home and is not working, they receive some benefit from that. I think the bonus is not sufficient to make up for the 
   fact that one of them stays at home.  
   Also, one of the most pernicious parts of this bill--the Senator from Texas has talked about this previously--is that we are attempting in America today to break through the glass ceiling to have women move forward and achieve equal income in America. That is happening to a record degree. But under the present Tax Code, the more equal the marriage partners are in income, the more tax penalty falls on them. In a way, as a practical matter, it seems to fall against working women in a way that you would not expect it to, and it is something we would not want to see happen. 
   We have unanimous agreement that the marriage tax penalty is a matter that ought not to continue. This legislation deals directly and squarely with that. It doubles the standard deduction. It doubles the brackets for married couples, which is the simplest and best way to achieve that. It will give hard-earned relief to married couples. 
   We had the spectacle reported of the witness who testified in the House committee that each year he and his wife would divorce before the end of the year, file separately, get the lower tax rate, and then remarry at the beginning of the next year. 
   We ought not to have tax policies that would make somebody feel as if they could get ahead of the system and save money for their family by divorcing every year. It is the kind of thing that is not healthy. 
   I appreciate the fact we are finally moving. I hope in a bipartisan way to see this bill become law. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Georgia and welcome the opportunity to share a few remarks about violence in America and what we can do to make our streets and communities safer and, specifically, what we ought to do about firearms in America. 
   Over half the homes in America have a gun. It is a traditional part of American life, and it will always be. It is protected by the second amendment to the Constitution. It provides the right to keep and bear arms. That is a tradition and a legal right given to the American people, unless it is taken away by an amendment to the Constitution of the United States. 
   However, even though we have firearms, firearms are dangerous and they should not be in the hands of people who are dangerous. 
   We have a string of laws that help us deal with that, laws that I used to enforce for 15 years as a Federal prosecutor, and 12 years as U.S. attorney. We had a project under President Bush called Project Triggerlock, which he promoted and I promoted in my district. I sent out a newsletter to every sheriff and every chief of police telling them that we were willing and able to use tough Federal firearms legislation to help them crack down on crime where firearms were used; that we would prosecute people who had been convicted of a felony who possessed a firearm; that we would, indeed, prosecute them aggressively if they wanted to bring those cases to the Federal prosecutors. We increased those prosecutions substantially. I believe that helped reduce crime. I believe it helped make our communities safer. 
   Years went by and President Clinton took office. I expected, since he talked so much about illegal guns and stopping guns--they talk about this inanimate object, a metal firearm as if it is an evil force, when, obviously, the person behind it is the one who causes the trouble. I thought we would see a further step-up of the prosecution of laws. 
   As one can see from the chart behind me, exactly the opposite occurred. It is astounding to me. I left office in 1992, and under President Bush's administration, there were 7,048 prosecutions of criminals for illegal use of guns under existing laws then, and we have more laws today than we had then. Look what happened. They steadfastly set about to reduce those gun prosecutions to 3,807 in 1998. I find that astounding. 
   I came to this body 3 years ago. I know how to pull out the Department of Justice statistics book. I used it every day as a Federal prosecutor. I could see how my district was doing and other districts were doing. I looked at the numbers. It was stunning to me. 
   In the last 3 years I have been here, I do not believe I have missed one opportunity to call those numbers to the attention of the Attorney General of the United States, the Deputy Attorney General of the United States, the Associate Attorney General of the United States, or the Chief of the Criminal Division. It has been 10, 15, or more times. Most of the time I have had this very chart with me. 
   I said: I am astounded. 
   They said: The States are prosecuting more cases, and we are trying to go after big gun cases. 
   Fundamentally, the numbers went down. The intensity of the effort went down. 
   Then an experiment occurred. The U.S. attorney in Richmond, VA, appointed by President Clinton, got with the chief of police in Richmond, who is a young, aggressive African American, to do something about gun violence in Richmond. So they attempted to do what we called Project Triggerlock. They called it Triggerlock with Steroids. They prosecuted the types of cases we were doing, and they ran TV advertisements and announcements. They thought the combination would help. 
   They credited their efforts in Richmond, VA--President Clinton's own appointee--with a 30-percent reduction in the number of deaths and murders in Richmond, VA--40 percent. It may be more than that over 2 years, but 30 percent was the number they testified to in a hearing I held. 
   Oddly enough, the day before the hearing, which was going to be on a Monday, the President, the Department of Justice, and Janet Reno tried their best to put off the hearing. They did not want to go into these numbers. They did not want to talk about them. Finally we said: We are going to have this hearing; we have been talking about it for years. 
   So we set it and went forward. Then that Saturday before the hearing was to be held, President Clinton dedicated his national radio address to Project Exile in Richmond and bragged about how good it was. He said in that radio address: I am directing the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of the Treasury--which has the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms that does most of the investigations--to step up their prosecution of criminals with guns. 
   A month or so later, the Attorney General came before the committee on another matter, and I asked her about it. She apparently had not done anything about it. I remember asking her: How did she get the message from the President? Did she have to turn on the radio or did he send it to her in writing? He said it on the radio: I am directing you to enhance these prosecutions. He should; but it has not been done. 
   A lot of other laws have been passed in recent years that are supposed to work. I am telling you about the 7,000 prosecutions of felons who were in the possession of a gun during the commission of a crime, the 7,000 prosecutions of felons, in the possession of automatic weapons, lying on their forms when they applied to buy one, and that sort of thing. That is the bread and butter of prosecuting gun cases. That is the meat and potatoes of it. We passed a lot of other laws. 
   They want to pass another law to go even further than what this Congress has passed to restrict the sale of guns at a gun show saying it is going to affect crime in America. That is absolutely bogus. That is baloney. That is politics. 
   We tried to reach a reasonable agreement, but I am not going to vote for some sort of restriction on gun shows that says to people who have been doing this for 50 years that they have to wait 3 days before they can sell a gun. By then the show is closed and has gone back to a State somewhere far away. That is not necessary. 
   We have tried to reach an accord with the White House on that. They do not want an accord. They think they can get a political issue. 
   Let me show you what I am talking about, what is really important on guns. 
   They passed a law called 922(q), title 18, involving the possession of firearms on school grounds. That was a few years ago before I came to the Senate. It was not too many years ago. 
   In 1997, they had five prosecutions in the whole United States. In 1998, they had eight prosecutions in the whole United States. They passed a law that it is unlawful to transfer firearms to juveniles. I support that law. I support the one on the possession of firearms on school grounds, too. But, look, in 1997, they prosecuted five of those cases; and in 1998, six of those cases. 
   Another law deals with the possession or transfer of a semiautomatic weapon; that is, the assault weapons. You remember we had to have this assault weapon ban. It was worthy of debate. 
   An assault weapon looks like a military M-16, an AK-47, but it really is not. The assault weapons are semiautomatic, not fully automatic as are the military weapons. If it is fully automatic, if it is a machine gun, an automatic weapon, it has been illegal since the days of Al Capone. I do not believe I have ever failed to prosecute a case in  Alabama when a person had an automatic weapon, a machine gun. 
   We did not need these new laws to prosecute that. But if they had a weapon that looked like an M-16, they wanted to make it illegal, even though it fired one shot. That was eventually done. That was going to stop crime in America. Right? 
   In 1997, there were four prosecutions; in 1998, there were four prosecutions. 
   Look, we want to reduce crime in America. We want to reduce the incidence of illegal weapons. Children do not need to be 
   playing with weapons. Everybody who has a weapon in their home needs to keep that weapon locked up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, we want to do the right thing. But there is a constitutional right to keep and bear arms in this country. How far do we want to go? These laws that are not being enforced, does that suggest this administration is guilty of hypocrisy? 
   They said this was so important, that we had to pass it, and we were going to enforce these laws. But their prosecutions have plummeted under the administration. 
   I say to the people of America, and the Members of this Senate, if we replicated, throughout this country, Project Exile in Richmond, and if it were carried out under existing laws, that all these laws and those gun laws were enforced steadfastly--if criminals who are using guns are given enhanced sentences, as Federal law requires; if you carry a firearm during a drug deal, you must receive 5 years without parole consecutive to any sentence you receive for the drug offense--the word starts getting out. 
   It did in Mobile, AL, where I prosecuted. Drug dealers quit carrying guns because if they carried a gun, they would be taken to Federal court, and when they were prosecuted, they would be sentenced and sent off, in exile, to some Federal prison way out of the State. 
   It does work. It worked in Richmond. That is what we need to do. We need to be skeptical of the news media that always judges whether or not somebody is against gun violence by whether they vote for every bill the Clinton administration proposes. If you do not vote for every bill they propose, then you are for gun violence. 
   I was a prosecutor. I prosecuted a lot more cases, firearms cases, than the Clinton administration did and my brother U.S. attorneys did. So that offends me. I do not believe it is right. 
   This amendment that has been proposed, this sense of the Senate, is just a political deal. I worked hard with Senator HATCH, and others on the Judiciary Committee, to pass a juvenile crime bill that I believe will work to reduce crime in America. It has some gun amendments on it that restrict gun use in America. It makes it a felony to sell one of these assault weapons to a young person. And there are other offenses we added to that. But they are not going to really affect crime in America, frankly. Certainly, they will not if they do not get enforced. 
   I suggest that what we need to do is to enforce the laws we have. I know Mr. Wayne LaPierre, the executive director of the National Rifle Association, made the comment that the President wanted violence in America, and that is why he would not enforce these laws. He got so mad about it, he said he thought it was deliberate. I do not agree with that. 
   But I will say to you right now what I said in the hearings before my committee: There have been good and decent people all over America who are dead today because this administration will not enforce and carry out a proven program such as Project Exile in Richmond, VA, to target criminals who are using guns to kill people. 
   They claim they have had a 30-percent reduction in murder in Richmond. Think what would happen if every city in America could achieve that by carrying out such a program. It could be done if the Attorney General would direct it, if the President would insist on it, and we would get about that business--instead of just talking about guns, talking about some new esoteric law, some wording in some transaction at a gun show, as if that is going to make a difference. 
   Trust me. I have been there. I prosecuted these cases. I care about this issue. I believe we need to quit playing politics. We need to pass that juvenile crime bill. It is a good bill. It is being held up because we will not go as far as the President wants to go on gun show legislation. The House voted it down substantially, with some Democratic opposition. We need to get that legislation passed, quit playing politics with this issue, and get on with the business of the Senate. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield on one point? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, in order to make some logic out of this vote-arama process, on behalf of the leader, I ask unanimous consent that the first 10 amendments to be voted on tomorrow be the following and that as stated earlier all votes after the first vote be limited to 10 minutes, with 2 minutes for explanation prior to each vote. The amendments are: the Santorum amendment on military/vets benefits; the Conrad amendment on lockbox; the Abraham amendment on SOS lockbox; the Johnson amendment on veterans; the Ashcroft amendment on SOS Social Security investment; the Mikulski amendment on digital divide; the Bob Smith amendment on RX; the Graham of Florida amendment on education; the Voinovich amendment on strike tax reconciliation; and the Kennedy amendment on Pell grants. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there are no Senators seeking to speak in morning business, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today it adjourn until the hour of 9 a.m. on Friday, April 7. I further ask consent that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of S. Con. Res. 101, the budget resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will begin the vote-arama at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. To make this process as smooth as possible, on behalf of the leader, I ask all Senators to remain in the Chamber between votes. As a reminder, there will be 2 minutes, equally divided, between each vote for explanation of the amendments. The majority leader asks all Senators for their cooperation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 9:43 p.m., adjourned until Friday, April 7, 2000, at 9 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000404</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Texas for her leadership in this effort, Senator ROTH for his determination to make it a reality, and Senator DOMENICI for providing us an opportunity in this budget to try to end a penalty on marriage in America. 
   The time has come. We have talked about it long enough. We have a national consensus to end this penalty. I have 425,000 Alabama families, 48 percent of the married couples, who are paying excess taxes simply because they got married. I know a couple who divorced and found they had received a $1,600 bonus by being divorced. 
   Think about that. The U.S. Government is saying to married couples: If you divorce, on average you will receive a $1,400 tax benefit. At the same time, if you get married, you are going to pay a $1,400 tax increase--unbelievable in a society that is experiencing substantial social problems from the breakup of families. 
   I chair the Youth Violence Subcommittee in the Judiciary Committee. We have had a lot of testimony, and I have done a study over the years as a prosecutor, about why crime is occurring. Why are so many young people involved in crime? Why is the crime rate higher with young people than among older people? 
   One reason is we have an extraordinary decline in the unity of the family. More families have broken up in the last 20, 30 years than in the history of the world. In fact, the distinguished senior Senator from New York, Mr. MOYNIHAN, who studied these issues, said one time that in the history of the world, no nation has ever gone forward with the kind of family breakups we have in America today. 
   We do not know what the long-term consequences are. But more and more studies indicate that all in all, it is better if we have an intact family. We have a U.S. Government policy to penalize marriage. That is not the right way for us to go. 
   I am so thankful we are now moving to a vote on this piece of legislation. People are going to have to stand up and be counted and defend the practice of taxing people who decide to get married and raise a family in America. 
   The numbers, as the Senator from Texas said, are stunning. We have a policeman and civil servant paying $1,000 extra a year, married for 2 years; a volunteer fireman, a printer, and a small businessperson paying $1,100 extra per year. 
   What does that mean? That is $100 a month. That is $100 a month aftertax money that could have been in their pockets, but the Federal Government reached in and took it out to spend on programs. 
   I am of the belief that is wrong. What can that young couple do with $100 a month? They can maybe start a savings account, maybe buy a new set of tires for their car--at least maybe a couple tires each month--or put a muffler on their car, or send their child to school with money for a project or a program, let them go to a movie or two every other week. This is real money for real people. I am glad we had Senator HUTCHISON and others this morning who brought forth couples who are paying this tax to help us recognize that we are dealing with a problem that needs to end. 
   I believe, and our Nation has always believed until recent years, that public policy does affect behavior. 
   What we want to do when we adopt a public policy position is, we want to ask ourselves, will this foster good behavior or will it encourage bad behavior? I suggest we have a policy that is not only unfair but it is damaging to our goal as a nation to affirm and encourage marriage, to encourage partnership in the marital union in the raising of families. Taxing that is not good public policy. The end of it is long overdue. 
   I am glad we will soon have a vote. I do hope and pray that the vote will be overwhelmingly to end this penalty. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I express my appreciation to the Chair for his important remarks on the details of the legislation that came out of the Senate Finance Committee today. That legislation takes a big step forward and basically eliminates the marriage penalty that exists in our tax law today. 
   Chairman ROTH has been a champion of improving our Tax Code. I am pleased to see that he has moved this legislation. It is something I know the Chair and I have advocated for a long time, as have many others in this body. We need to look at our policy in America and see if it is actually affirming the values we hold dear: Particularly, are we setting governmental policy in this country that damages families? Is that one of the reasons for the breakup of families in this country? I think it needs to be considered. I believe it is a matter of importance. 
   Good public policy is what we are about. We need to spend more time asking ourselves what is going to happen when we pass certain legislation. All of us agree that when you tax an item, a process, or an act, you get less of it. If you subsidize another act or process, you get more of it. That is just fundamental economics on which almost everybody would agree. 
   What we have in the marriage penalty is an amazing event. In this Government, we have created, according to the Congressional Budget Office, a tax burden of nearly $1,400 per married couple. If they are living separately, they will pay $1,400 on average less than if they are married. 
   That is an amazing event. I happen to know someone who got divorced recently. When they divorced, they said their tax bill went down $1,600. Had they divorced in December instead of January, they would have had an extra $1,600 from that year's return. We have the incredible, amazing event in which Federal tax policy encourages family breakup. It provides a bonus--$1,600 a year--as long as they remain single, for example. That is the kind of policy that we have created here. 
   Likewise, people who marry are penalized. I know a young person that married recently. He and his wife both work. They believe it will cost them over $1,000 a year to get married. This is $100 a month we are talking about. We are talking about people being taxed an additional $100 a month for following through on an institution that this Nation traditionally--before we got into this matter--venerated, and that is marriage and family. So I think this is a big deal. It is a very big deal. It is bad public policy. It is wrong. It is unfair. We should not continue this policy and we need to end it now. I believe we are on the road to achieving that. I am excited about it. Some time ago, we realized that we  were not increasing the deductions for families who had children and that young families were struggling to raise children. 
   This tax bill doesn't deal with children, just marriage. We had a long struggle, but we finally passed a $500 per child tax credit for young families trying to raise kids. For two kids, that is $1,000 a year, and nearly $85 a month. Parents can buy shoes and clothes, take the kids to the movies, buy something after ball practice at McDonald's. That is real money to real American citizens. Now we are talking here about another $100 a month, on average, or $110, $120 a month that married people are having to pay for the privilege of getting married. That should not be. It is a punishing and unfair tax. Furthermore, it should not, in my view, be based on income. Just because you make a little more money than somebody else, why should you be penalized for getting married? That doesn't make sense to me. This is not, in my view, a tax reduction issue so much as it is a fairness issue. Let's eliminate this unfairness. I am excited about what is happening here. Families will be able to buy that new dress, buy tires for their car, or fix the muffler, or get a new set of shocks, things they may need on a monthly basis--things that families do on a regular basis. 
   Also, I want to point out that this penalty is particularly noticeable now that we have more married women working. The penalty is even worse when a married woman's income comes close to the amount of income of the husband. So the husband and wife marry and there is this unexpected tax. You get whacked, and you wonder whether it is worth both people working. It oftentimes hurts the woman more than the man. In this country we would like to see equal opportunity in salaries, that there not be a glass ceiling for women, and that they ought to be able to have the same salary opportunities. But the more likely, on a statistical basis, that the woman receives the same salary as a man, the more this penalty will fall on her. So I think it is clearly unfair to both men and women. 
   Mr. President, I want to say again that we are making a big step toward ending a penalty, a tax, a detriment, a burden on an institution that is critical to the salvation and strength of this country, which is marriage. We are taxing that, penalizing that, and we are discouraging marriage. We are subsidizing singleness and divorce, actually. That is not good public policy. I believe we can do better. Of course, it will have no impact on a single person. No burden will fall on them because of passing this bill. It will simply be leveling the playing field and making it a more fair system. I thank the Senator from Kansas, and I thank Senator ROTH and the others who have worked on this legislation. We are moving forward. It is time to pass this bill, to give some relief and eliminate this unfair tax on marriage. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I recently reviewed a video tape of some of the violence that occurred during the labor dispute between Overnite Trucking and the Teamsters. I am shocked and disturbed by the violent attacks that have been carried out against  Overnite drivers simply because they have decided to work and provide for their families. 
   Under a legal loophole created in federal law, union officials, who organize and coordinate campaigns of violence to ``obtain so called legitimate union objectives,'' are exempt from federal prosecution under the Hobbs Act. An update of a 1983 union violence study, released by the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School Industrial Research Unit entitled: ``Union Violence: The Record and the Response of the Courts, Legislatures, and the NLRB,'' revealed some disturbing news. While the overall number of strikes has been on the decline, union violence has increased. The study also showed the violence is now more likely to be targeted toward individuals. 
   Mr. President, violence is violence and extortion is extortion regardless of whether or not you are a card carrying member of a union. I am proud to be a cosponsor of S. 764, the Freedom from Union Violence Act. This legislation would plug the loopholes in the Hobbs Act and make all individuals accountable for their actions. I believe that people should be reprimanded for using violence to obstruct the law. We should not give special treatment to union violence cases or union bosses. Senator THURMOND has set out to clarify that union-related violence can be prosecuted. I commend Senator THURMOND for introducing this much-needed legislation. 
   During the 105th Congress, the Judiciary Committee conducted a hearing on the Freedom from Union Violence Act. After listening to and reviewing the wrenching testimony of victims of union violence at this hearing, I am now more certain of the need to eliminate these loopholes. For these reasons I respectfully urge my colleague Senator HATCH, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, to schedule hearings and a markup of S. 764, the Freedom from Union Violence Act, as soon as possible. I also urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. It is time to end federally endorsed violence. Conducting hearings on this issue would be a step in the right direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000328</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to make a brief statement on two arbitration bills that are currently pending in the Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts of the Committee on the Judiciary. These bills are S. 1020 and S. 121, both of which would create exceptions to the Federal Arbitration Act. 
   In general, arbitration is fair, efficient, and cost-effective means of alternative dispute resolution compared to long and costly court proceedings. The two bills before the subcommittee today raise concerns about the fairness of allowing some parties to opt out of arbitration and the wisdom of exposing certain parties to the cost and uncertainty of trial proceedings. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I believe we are now about to move to the Hollings amendment. Is that the next agenda item? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Are there 2 hours equally divided on the Hollings amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am prepared to yield the floor to the Senator from South Carolina and ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to have 30 minutes on this subject. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Whenever. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. In the next hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. If we can finish in 1 hour. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I always enjoy the remarks of the Senator from South Carolina. I am glad he doesn't speak with an accent. I can understand him better than most around this body. He is a straight shooter and a skilled lawyer who understands what the legal system is about and what we are doing in the Senate. I respect that. 
   I respect his conclusion, which I believe is legally sound, that most of the campaign proposals which have been proposed in recent years run afoul of the Constitution, according to a majority of the U.S. Supreme Court. That is a fact. I believe that is a good fact. 
   Some would say: Well, you want to limit free speech when you want to stop burning the flag and you want to prohibit that and that is free speech. The Supreme Court, by a 5-4 majority, held that the act of burning a flag is free speech. I don't agree with that. In 1971, the Supreme Court didn't agree with that. For over 200 years they didn't agree with that. Over 40 States have laws against it. 
   When it passed this time recently, it was a 5-4 majority. But in my view, the flag of the United States is a unique object and prohibiting its desecration will not in any way fundamentally alter the free expression of ideas in this country. You can speak about why the  flag ought to be burned and that sort of thing, but we know the act of it is different from speech. It seems to me if it is speech, and if the Court is correct in saying it is speech, then the people of the United States care deeply about protecting the flag. They have an avenue to adopt a restricted, narrow constitutional amendment that doesn't in any way jeopardize the ability of our people in this country to speak freely but would allow States to prohibit the burning of a flag. That is what I think we ought to do. 
   I think it would be healthy for this country to adopt a constitutional amendment that would allow the protection of the flag because people on the battlefield have died for that flag. More Medals of Honor have been awarded for preserving and fighting to preserve the flag than any other. We know the stories of battle when time after time the soldier carrying the flag is the target of the enemy. When he fell, another one would pick it up. When he fell, another one would pick it up. When he fell, another one would pick it up. That is the history. 
   We pledge allegiance to the flag, not the Constitution, not the Declaration of Independence. We pledge allegiance to the flag because it is a unifying event. It is a unifying symbol for America, and having a special protection for it is quite logical for me. I do not believe we should never amend the Constitution. I do not think we amend the Constitution enough. But we want to have good amendments that are necessary, that are important, that enrich us, and that make us a stronger nation. I support that. 
   With regard to the amendment of the Senator from South Carolina, I respect his honesty and his direct approach. I think by his amendment he recognizes in the most fundamental sense that when you constrain the right of people in this country to come together, raise money, and speak out on an issue that they care deeply about, you are indeed affecting independent thought, free debate, and freedom of speech. 
   The Constitution of the United States says Congress shall 
   make no law abridging the freedom of speech. 
   I am really surprised to look at this amendment. It goes in just the opposite way. It says Congress shall have the power to place reasonable limits. So right away we are amending the first amendment. We are saying Congress shall have the power to place reasonable limits on the amount of contributions that may be made and accepted, and the amount of expenditures made by and in support of or in opposition to a candidate for office in the United States, State and Federal--the two clauses of this amendment. We are saying incumbent politicians in this body ought to be seeking to encourage laws that would prohibit people from gathering together and raising funds and speaking out. The Senator said we want a constitutional amendment because it will allow any other thing you want to do, whatever you want. He said it will allow that in terms of campaign finance. That is a scary thing to me--whatever we want. 
   What do incumbents want? They want many times to keep down debate. They want to keep from the people the errors they may have made, or the acts they have carried out with which the people do not agree. Many times the only way we can ever know what the truth is, is for people who care about those issues to raise money and speak out against it. 
   I feel very strongly about this. I think this is a major event. If the flag amendment is a 1 on a constitutional scale, this Hollings amendment is a 9 or a 10. It is the first time in the history of this country I know of where we have submitted a constitutional amendment that does not increase our freedom, our liberties, and our ability to act and speak as we choose. It will be the first time I know of where we are proposing a constitutional amendment that would clearly dampen, reduce, and control the free rights of American citizens to speak out on issues they care deeply about. 
   The Cato Foundation, a conservative think tank, and the ACLU, a liberal group, are horrified at the very thought of this. 
   This is basic constitutional law. We are talking about restricting the right of people to run advertisements during a campaign season to say why they care about issues. What more is free speech about? 
   Chief Justice Rehnquist, in talking about the flag burning, said, ``At best, burning a flag is a grunt or a roar.'' It is not really speech at all, if you consider it some sort of expression, which I think is a stretch. But even then, you consider it inarticulate speech. That is not of great value compared to the unifying symbol of the flag. 
   But when you talk about taking away the right of American citizens to run ads on television, to buy newspapers, to print handbills and pass them out, and to say they can't do that; why? Well, you just can't do it during an election cycle. When do you want to speak out? What good is it if you do not want to do it during an election cycle? 
   I do not want to use all the time I have. We have two excellent scholars who care deeply about this issue who wanted to speak before I got unanimous consent. I don't want to take their time. 
   I will just say this before I yield the floor and ask that my time be given back to them. 
   We do not need to be retreating from freedom. We do not need to be retreating from free debate. We do not need to be adopting a constitutional amendment that will allow our children and grandchildren not to rise up, raise money, and speak out and condemn a group of incumbents who they believe are not doing the right thing in America. Sometimes that is the only way you can get the message out. 
   Frankly, I am not one of those who believes our national news media is fair. I think it is ludicrous to expect and to suggest they are fair and objective. They are clearly, in my view, biased toward big government and liberal activity. 
   I am not going to say I am going to subject my campaigns to constant reinterpretation of what I do to some media outlet that may get worse than it is today. Apparently, they have unlimited rights to run their programs every day and call it ``news'' if they want to. Somebody who has a different view cannot raise money, buy time on their program, and rebut that? 
   This is fundamental stuff. This is right to the core of what the first amendment was all about. The first amendment is about intelligent debate, argument, concern over policy issues--not whether or not you have a ``grunt'' or a ``roar'' in burning a flag. I don't believe that was ever intended to be covered by the Constitution. 
   If so, we don't need to go in this direction. It is one of the most adverse steps we could take. It would be an error of colossal proportions if this Senate were to vote to amend the great charter of freedom, the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States, out of some vain, hopeless effort that we are going to suppress the right of free American citizens to raise money and speak out on what they believe in. 
   I am prepared to vote on reasonable controls on campaign funding as long as it can pass constitutional muster. I believe fundamentally our best protection is to allow people to speak; if people give money, disclose how much money they give, and let everybody know promptly and immediately. If the public knows where the money is coming from, they may judge the value of the ads. 
   In my Republican primary 3 years ago for the Senate, I had eight opponents. They spent $5 million among them. I spent $1 million. Two of my opponents spent more than $1 million of their own money. I had to raise every dime I could raise, some $900,000. I worked hard, and I won the race. John Connolly, mentioned earlier, spent more money per vote than any man, and he got clobbered. Other senatorial candidates have spent tens of millions of dollars and have been clobbered in races. 
   I do not believe money always tells the tale. It was difficult for me when I faced the guy spending $1.5 million of his own money on a Republican primary in Alabama, but that is the way it is. I do not see how I can tell that person he cannot spend that money and express what he believes and cares about in that election about why he would be an outstanding candidate. 
   Many gave to me because they believed I could be an effective voice for their concerns. That is what America is all about. I don't believe it corrupts politicians. I believe it sucks them into  the system and makes them be participants. They speak, run ads, and attack, sometimes, unfairly. If we can figure out a way to do a better job of disclosing how this money is spent and from whom it comes, I think that will help the public. 
   I appreciate the leadership of Senators BENNETT and MCCONNELL, who are scholars on these issues. I believe the Senate should do well to listen to them. I agree with the Senator from South Carolina, this is really important. More Senators need to be paying attention to this crucial issue in our Nation's history. 
   I yield to the Senator from Kentucky. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the leader, it is the leader's hope and intention to have a final vote on the pending concurrent resolution before the Senate adjourns on Tuesday, March 28. However, if a consent agreement cannot be reached, a cloture vote will occur on Wednesday morning. With that in mind, I send a cloture motion to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It is the leader's hope the final vote will occur tomorrow. However, if this cloture vote is necessary, I now ask consent it occur at 10 a.m. on Wednesday and the mandatory quorum under rule XXII be waived. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 324, S. 1730. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 325, S. 1731. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 329, S. 1744. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 442, S. Res. 87. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 444, S. Res. 263. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee amendment be agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution, as amended, be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to this resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand that H.R. 2366 is at the desk, and I ask for its first reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I now ask for its second reading and object to my own request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of H.R. 1658, reported today by the Judiciary Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee substitute be agreed to, the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the bill we have just considered is a very important piece of legislation that has been the subject of considerable effort for over a year now in the Judiciary Committee in the House. 
   Great efforts have been expended by all parties interested in this legislation to achieve a piece of legislation that would provide enhanced protections to private property owners and at the same time would not undermine, in a real and significant and unnecessary way, the ability of law enforcement agencies to seize and forfeit to the interest of the Government assets from illegal drug dealers and other criminal assets that are forfeited. 
   In the early 1980s, this Congress passed one of its most historic pieces of legislation that attacked crime in America. It was the asset forfeiture law. At that time, I was a U.S. attorney in Mobile, AL. This Federal law became a daily part of the work of my office. 
   We instructed our assistant U.S. attorneys that whenever they were prosecuting a drug case, it was not just enough to sentence and punish the criminal, they ought to be sure the ill-gotten gains, the profits they made from selling illegal substances in this country, would be seized and forfeited to the United States. 
   On a regular basis that was done all over this country. It was a major, important, historic step against crime, particularly against drug crime in America. Hundreds of millions, perhaps billions of dollars, have been forfeited from illegal enterprises since that day. The forfeitures are conducted under this Federal law, although States have the ability to forfeit assets, too. 
   In Federal court, the Government had to prove its case, seize the asset; a cost bond would be posted by the defendant if he wished to contest the seizure, and a court would hear the case and make a ruling in that fashion. 
   A number of people believed strongly that requiring a person to post a cost bond was not a healthy thing under our legal system. They wanted to change that. Chairman HENRY HYDE in the House Judiciary Committee felt that way; so did Senator ORRIN HATCH, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. We began to analyze and study what we could do to deal with this problem of asset forfeiture. 
   At the time, Senators SCHUMER, THURMOND, BIDEN, and myself introduced asset forfeiture reform legislation in the Senate. Senators HATCH and LEAHY introduced another piece of legislation that was closer to the Hyde bill. 
   For some months now, we have worked together to see what we could do to protect legitimate constitutional rights of American citizens, while at the same time protecting this tremendous asset to law enforcement of the seizing and forfeiting of assets. 
   It is wrong, in my opinion, for a person who has made his money and his livelihood for years selling dope in America to go to jail and leave a mansion out there that he can come back to and the Federal taxpayers having to pay for his time in jail, or to have bank accounts with hundreds of thousands of dollars in them and not have that seized by the Government but, in fact, serving his time in jail and getting out and living high off the ill-gotten gains he achieved as a drug trafficker. 
   I would say, 98 percent of forfeitures in America today in Federal court are as a result of drug cases. 
   In my relatively small office in Alabama, when I was a U.S. attorney, we seized probably $8 million to $10 million that we actually turned into the Federal Treasury, after expenses and other items were paid. 
   In one case, we seized a Corvette automobile that was rumored to be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars because it was a unique Corvette. In fact, the drug dealer's car eventually was sold for $170,000, as I remember. We seized mansions in Florida on the Gulf Coast. We seized bank accounts in foreign countries--big freighters, small boats, expensive sail boats, automobiles of all kinds, and bank accounts into the millions of dollars. 
   These are effective tools against the drug trafficking industry. 
   In fact, many countries now recognize that, and they are at this time attempting to pass similar laws in their countries. It certainly is important to America. 
   I believed very strongly that when we set about amending this law, we do not need to place any unnecessary burdens on law enforcement and the prosecutors who will have to handle these cases. In fact, a large percentage, perhaps 90 percent or more, of these cases are confessed by the defendant because he has to establish where he got this money. Not many people can explain why they have $50,000 in cash in the trunk of their car along with maybe a few kilograms of cocaine. Normally, there is evidence in addition that they have been a drug dealer and that they haven't had employment; that their house note is being paid in cash. Oftentimes they paid for their Mercedes automobile in cash, those kinds of things. So the proof turns out to be pretty good, as a normal rule. 
   I believe the negotiation over this legislation was a fine example of the Senate at work; the Senate and House, as a matter of fact. We believe the agreement that has been reached today will both satisfy the House Judiciary Committee leadership and the Senate Judiciary Committee leadership. Now it has already passed the Senate. If the identical bill passes in the House, it will become law. We will have done what we set out to do, to pass legislation that will strengthen protections and civil liberties in America without undermining the rule of law in this country. 
   I was proud to be a part of that. We worked very hard on it. I express particular appreciation to my staff on the Judiciary Committee: Kristi Lee, who is now U.S. Magistrate in Mobile, AL, and Ed Haden, who is with me today, who both worked with extraordinary skill to make this legislation become a reality. 
   In recent weeks, I am particularly proud of the work Ed Haden has done to be firm and strong for good, solid legislation that could have the support of law enforcement in America. 
   I also express my appreciation for the leadership of Senator HATCH who chairs the Judiciary Committee. His skill and knowledge on these issues is unsurpassed, and his dedication to American law is unsurpassed. 
   I also was extraordinarily impressed with the commitment and knowledge and ability of Chairman HENRY HYDE of the House Judiciary Committee. His insight and commitment to making this law better was remarkable, and I think the result has been something of which we can all be proud. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that a star print of S. 2285 be made with the changes that are at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, March 28. I further ask unanimous consent that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate resume consideration of S.J. Res. 14, as under the previous agreement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess from the hours of 12:30 to 2:15 for the weekly party luncheons. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, tomorrow morning the Senate will resume consideration of the pending flag desecration resolution. Under the order, there will be 2 hours remaining for debate relating to the Hollings amendment, to be followed by an additional hour for general debate. At 2:15 on Tuesday, following the party luncheons, the Senate will proceed to two consecutive votes on the pending amendments to the flag desecration resolution. It is hoped that following those votes, the Senate will be able to reach a consent agreement regarding the passage vote of S. J. Res. 14. As a reminder, if an agreement is not reached for a vote on passage, then under the provisions of rule XXII, a cloture vote will occur on Wednesday of this week. 
   I thank all the Members for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000327</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 6:45 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, March 28, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator and I appreciate his leadership on this issue and his courage in standing up for it. 
   It is really offensive to me that it would be suggested I or other Members would oppose someone simply because they were Hispanic, African American, or any other nationality, religion, or racial background. I hardly knew he was Hispanic until we were into this matter. He has been held up for a number of years for reasons that have been discussed in some detail. He has stated, as a State judge, a philosophy of judging that is the absolute epitome of judicial activism. He said that when a legislative body doesn't act, it is the responsibility of the judge, or the judiciary, to act and fill the void. Well, when a legislative body, duly elected by the people of the United States, fails to act, that body has made a decision--a decision not to act. But they are elected. If they do the wrong thing, they can be removed from office. But now we want to have a Federal judge who is unelected, with a lifetime appointment, to blithely walk in and say: Well, I don't like this impasse. You guys have a problem and you didn't solve it, so I am going to reinterpret the meaning of the Constitution. That word doesn't mean that, or ``is'' means something else. So I am going to make this legislation say what I want it to say. I am going to solve this problem. You guys in the legislative branch would not solve it; you failed to solve it, and you are thinking about special interests. But I am above that, and I will do the right thing. 
   Mr. President, that is judicial activism. That is an antidemocratic act at its most fundamental point because that judge has a lifetime appointment. 
   He has no accountability to the public whatsoever. 
   It is a thunderous power that the Founding Fathers gave Federal judges. And for the most part they have handled themselves well. But this doctrine of judicial activism that they have a right to act when the needs of the country are at stake is malicious, bad, and wrong. It undermines the rule of law. It undermines the democracy at its very core. 
   Hear me, America. When you have a Federal judge who is an unelected person unaccountable to the people, we have gone from a democracy to something else. I believe that is not healthy. His statement in that regard is a fundamental statement that indicates to me he is particularly not a good choice for the Ninth Circuit. 
   As the Senator so ably pointed out, it is the most activist circuit of all. I know the Senator mentioned the recent case in which he was reversed. 
   The city of Los Angeles passed a statute against panhandling after an individual on the street of Los Angeles was murdered when he wouldn't give somebody 25 cents. They passed legislation. The Los Angeles City Council is not a city council that has set about to deny civil liberties. They are one of the most open cities in the world. 
   What did Judge Paez do, according to the Federal Supplement opinion of his district court order in 1997? He found that the ordinance was invalid on its face under the California Constitution's Liberty of Speech clause for discriminating on the basis of content between categories of speech. 
   The case was appealed to the Federal court. They certified that question, as they sometimes do, to the California Supreme Court. This is a California statute, and the Federal judge was invalidated by the California Supreme Court. 
   Out of deference and respect to the California Supreme Court, what is your opinion of that? They reviewed the matter. They came back and concluded that the judge was wrong after having delayed the implementation of a duly passed statute by the duly elected leadership of the city of Los Angeles. This one sitting, lifetime-appointed judge unaccountable to the American people wiped it out. The California Supreme Court said this:  
   As noted above, the regulation of solicitation long has been recognized as being within the government's police power. And, yet, plaintiff's suggested approach to content neutrality in many instances would frustrate or preclude that means--  
   Let me stop--  
   [T]he kind of narrow tailoring that is generally demanded with regard to the exercise of such police power regulation in the area of protected expression. If, as plaintiff suggests, lawmakers cannot distinguish properly between solicitation for immediate exchange of money and all other kinds of speech, then it may be impossible to tailor legislation in this area in a manner that avoids rendering the legislation impermissibly over-inclusive.  
   It is free speech to say ``stick'em up, turn over your money or your life''? No, it is not. 
   This is a pretty cutting and direct rebuttal, and a blunt condemnation of Judge Paez from the Supreme Court of California--not a right-wing court, I submit:   
   In our view, a court should avoid a constitutional interpretation that so severely would constrain the legitimate exercise of government authority in an area where such regulation has long been acknowledged to be appropriate.  
   Indeed, one of the main reasons our murder rate fell in this country a few years ago was because Rudy Giuliani, as mayor of New York, examined what was happening to crime in New York, and he decided that what was happening was we were allowing panhandlers and drug dealers to be wandering the streets and they focused on small crime. They had a plummeting of the murder rate in New York. It dropped by about two-thirds in almost 1 year's time. In fact, there was almost a one-half decline in the murder rate in 1 year. 
   This judge would say those kinds of regulations that allow a city to take control of its streets is not valid, and it was reversed by the Supreme Court of California in pretty blunt language. To say he is not an activist and not willing to use his power as an unelected public official to set public policy in America is wrong. 
   That is only one of the cases that is involved here. 
   I am concerned about the sentencing of John Huang. It is a very important case. It is a case of real national importance. His activities were followed. The Democratic National Committee had to give back $1.6 million in contributions that had come from illegal sources, mainly foreign sources--the Lippo Group, and Riady, and so forth. That was a major news story, and it was for years. 
   We, as members of the Judiciary Committee, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, leaders in the House and Senate, urged Attorney General Janet Reno to set up an independent prosecutor to investigate this campaign finance problem. She steadfastly refused to do so, although she did in a lot of other cases. 
   The employees of the Department of Justice are answerable to the Attorney General, who holds her office at the pleasure of the President of the United States. She can be removed at any moment by the President of the United States. She decided she would hold onto that case. She would not give it up, and she assured us that they would effectively prosecute it; they would get to the bottom of it and crack down on these illegal contributions from foreign governments, mainly believed to be the People's Republic of China, a Communist nation, and a significant competitor of the United States, while they were stealing our secrets at the same time from our laboratories. 
   This is a serious matter. She would not give it up. She said she would do a good job with it, and they took the case and investigated it. Her underlings met with John Huang's lawyers in Los Angeles, and they discussed the case and the disposition of it. 
   I was a Federal prosecutor for 15 years. I have some experience. I have been here for 3 years, but most of my career was as a Federal prosecutor. 
   So they have this meeting and they reach a plea agreement. I have a copy of the plea agreement. They had a plea agreement and presented it to the judge. 
   I tell you, a judge is not required to accept a plea agreement under the law, and I can document that entirely. A judge is not required to accept a plea agreement presented to him by a prosecutor. It is common knowledge and everyday practice. You present a plea to the judge. By accepting it, he accepts the guilty plea of that defendant. If he rejects it, he doesn't take the plea. 
   What did the plea agreement say about that particular issue? They said: Oh, you know, the judge is just a victim of the prosecutor. He is just bound by them. 
   I am telling you that a judge is a force. A Federal judge to a Federal prosecutor is a force. What he says or she says goes. They can demand all kinds of things before they take a plea, and they should demand all kinds of things before they take a plea. 
   For those who think the judge had no authority, I will read the exact language between John Huang and the Clinton Department of Justice prosecutors.  
   Paragraph 15: This agreement is not binding on the court. The United States and you understand that the court retains complete discretion to accept or reject the agreed-upon disposition as provided for in paragraph 15(f) of its agreement. If the court does not accept the recommended sentence, this agreement will be void, you will be free to withdraw your plea of guilty. If you do withdraw the plea, all that you have said and done in the course of leading to this plea cannot be used against you. 
   In addition, should the court reject this agreement, and should you, therefore, withdraw your guilty plea, the United States agrees it will dismiss the information, the charge, that is brought against you, without prejudice to the United States right to indict you on charges contained in the information and any other appropriate charges.  
   This is basic. They go to the court and plead guilty. The judge does a pre-sentence report, as the Senator from Vermont said. A judge ought to be impeached if they don't do a pre-sentence report on a case such as this. That is routine. A pre-sentence report is made, which has not been made part of the record. There was a plea on what is called an information, not an indictment. 
   That means the case was not presented to a grand jury of 24 citizens to have them vote on what charges should be brought against John Huang. 
   Remember, the investigation began out of the charges of $1.6 million to the 1996 Democratic National Committee to benefit the Clinton-Gore campaign. 
   Some say: JEFF, you are just playing politics. You want to talk about campaign finance reform. 
   I am talking about the judge who took the plea on the man who was a central figure in the gathering of this money from a Communist nation. This is serious business. We ought not to treat this lightly. 
   Any judge who had already been nominated by this President for a higher Federal court position, I believe, should have realized the significance of the position he was in and conducted himself with a particularly high level of scrutiny. It was produced after this plea agreement was signed between the prosecutor and John Huang and his attorneys. They produced an agreed-upon charge--not an indictment because it wasn't a grand jury; it is called an information. It is written by the prosecutor, saying: The United States charges. 
   They did this, and presumably filed the case on the docket. In some fashion, the case went to Judge Paez. Out of 34 judges, this case goes to the Judge who is already being nominated by the President for another high court position. I know we have a clerk who has written a letter, but clerks get their fannies in trouble if they don't say those kinds of things. I don't know how this case got to him. I would like to have that clerk under oath for about an hour, and I will know after that whether or not it was handled in a legitimate way. That is what I believe. This little one- or two-line statement doesn't say a lot that satisfies me. I have seen many of those statements. The President submitted a many affidavits saying, ``I didn't do anything wrong'' in his civil cases. We learned later that he did do some things wrong. 
   It is curious to me that Judge Paez had drawn the other significant campaign finance reform case for the Democratic National Committee in the Clinton-Gore campaign. That was a Maria Hsia case. Maria Hsia is the one laundered the money through the Buddhist nuns for the campaign. He got both of those cases. That is a pretty high number. I would like to see a mathematical calculation of the chances of the two most prominent campaign finance reform cases both falling to 1 judge out of 34 judges in Los Angeles, California. I don't know how it happened. Maybe there is a good explanation. If there is, I am pleased to accept it. 
   I have been in courts and my experience is, and this is the reason I am concerned, usually in Federal courts, if there are 50 indictments returned by grand jury, they go on some sort of ``wheel'' and are randomly assigned. Cases that proceed on information by a prosecutor do not move through a grand jury. They move through the system in a different direction and do not always go on random selection. 
   Years ago, I remember when we would take the case to whatever judge was available. If a defendant wanted to plead guilty and we were satisfied, we called the judge and said: Judge, can you take the plea this afternoon at 4 o'clock? He would say, OK, or we would find another judge.  
   It is much more possible there is ``judge shopping'' on a plea to an information than on an indictment returned by a grand jury. 
   I think we ought to know this before we vote on a lifetime appointee. I wish it had been discovered sooner. 
   This is not an individual member of a law firm who had his practice disrupted. He is now a sitting Federal judge with a lifetime appointment. If he is not confirmed by this Senate, he will still be a Federal judge. He was previously confirmed by this Senate to be a Federal judge for the district court. I submit it is not too much to ask for a few weeks, 2 or 3 weeks, to have the matter cleared up. It has been 4 years; what is 3 more weeks to get the matter settled? That is what we ought to do if we want to do our duty. 
   I believe the evidence shows with some clarity why I believe the judge's actions at a minimum did not meet standards required of him. 
   There has been a lot of talk from those who defend Judge Paez. They say he is a victim of the prosecutor. Prosecutors have to take the pleas. It is routine to take the pleas. 
   This was not routine, No. 1. 
   Then they say the prosecutors were not doing their job. The prosecutors didn't tell him everything. He could not know everything. 
   We have examined the portions of the sentencing record we have been able to obtain, and we know at least some of those facts of which he was aware. I will analyze, based on the record, what he knew and what the sentencing guidelines require in terms of a sentence. I think I will demonstrate to the satisfaction of any fair observer that the judge did not follow the sentencing guidelines effectively. He found a lower level of wrongdoing than he should have. That level of wrongdoing allowed him to issue a light sentence instead of a sentence in jail. 
   I take very seriously the sentencing guidelines that were passed by this Congress a number of years ago. In the early 1980s, I was a U.S. attorney, a Federal prosecutor. The whole world held its breath when the U.S. Congress eliminated parole. It said to Federal judges: We are tired of one Federal judge giving 25 years for bank robbery and another giving probation for the same bank robbery offense. We don't want one judge who doesn't like drug cases giving everyone probation and another judge hanging an individual for minor amounts. 
   We are going to have guidelines. They passed detailed guidelines, and say the range would be 26 to 30 years. If the judge desired, he would give the lowest sentence allowed, 26; if he desired, he could give an individual 30. 
   The guidelines mandated and controlled sentencing. It was designed out of concern that there had been racial disparity. It was designed out of concern about an individual judge's predilictions to be soft or tough, and tried to create a uniform sentencing policy. 
   We held our breath. We didn't know if judges got their back up. They didn't like that. They had complete discretion before. They fussed. We wondered if they would follow. They did follow it. The courts of appeals and the Supreme Court directed them to follow. If they didn't follow guidelines, they reversed the sentences and sent the case back, saying: Follow these sentencing guidelines. 
   Even if we don't like them, they were passed by the elected Representatives of America in Congress. We, as judges, have to abide by those guidelines. 
   That is the basic point on that. 
   The plea agreement was stunning, in my view. And the information that was filed for the case was very troubling to me. We have a national matter involving the very integrity of the Presidential election by the infusion of large sums of illegal cash. It made national news, TV, radio, magazines, newspapers. What do the Department of Justice prosecutors do? 
   Where do we charge John Huang with this fundamental violation of the 1996 election? Is that what he pled guilty to, in this information and plea agreement? I have it right here. He did not plead to one dime of illegal contributions to the Clinton-Gore Democratic National Committee campaign in 1996. His plea was to a $5,000 and a $2,500 campaign contribution to the Michael Woo for Mayor Campaign Committee in Los Angeles. That is what he pled guilty to. That is all he pled guilty to. 
   What did the prosecutor recommend? He recommended a nonincarcerated sentence of 1 year probation, no jail time, don't go to the Bastille, don't get locked up, don't serve time in jail for one of the biggest intrusions of illegal cash in the history of American political life. Plead guilty to a violation in a mayor's race. Don't discuss the matter of the Presidential election; it might embarrass the boss of the prosecutor who is handling the case. 
   This is raw stuff. It goes to the absolute core of justice in America. As U.S. attorney in Mobile, I prosecuted friends of mine, classmates of mine, business people I knew in the community, and drug dealers galore because I swore an oath we would have ``equal justice under law.'' It is on the Supreme Court, right across this street. Go look at it: ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' 
   I assure you that, this very day in Los Angeles, CA, 25-year-old crack cocaine dealers are getting sentenced to 20 to 25 years in jail; some, life without parole. I was involved in a cocaine smuggling case. Five guys from Cleveland or somewhere brought in 1,500 pounds of cocaine, and the five of them got life without parole the same day because the Federal sentencing guidelines are tough on drug dealers. And they have tough provisions for corruption cases. But what did he get? He got 1 year probation and a $10,000 fine. 
   Do you think Mr. Riady would be glad to pay that fine? Do you think the Lippo Group could afford to pay a $10,000 fine for their buddy Johnny Huang? He testified. They said, you need to get at the bigger fish, and they did this because John Huang agreed to testify. Against whom did he testify? Did he provide important information? That is what prosecutors have to ask themselves. They had apparently debriefed him at the time of his plea and gotten him to tell what he knew and what he was going to cooperate about. 
   Who was the big fish? Who was the big fish that this great team of prosecutors agreed to prosecute? It was Maria Hsia. That is the only person, to my knowledge, John Huang has ever testified against. From what I hear, it was a pretty weak bit of testimony in a recent case in Washington. So they plea-bargained with John Huang, the big fish, and ended up getting testimony against some little fish. 
   What happens to Maria Hsia, the lady who raised all that laundered money at the Buddhist temple for Vice President GORE, the President of this Senate, when he chooses to be, there raising the money? She got convicted on five counts, allowing her to be sentenced for up to 25 years in jail. 
   It has always been curious to me why they did not try that case in Los Angeles, which would have been a much more favorable forum, according to most experts, than here in Washington. They brought it up here. Many say the Department of Justice was shocked they got a conviction, but they got a conviction. So now we have John Huang who raised $1.6 million, who pled guilty to a 
   piddling mayor's race case and got 1 year probation, testifying against Maria Hsia, who, in my view, would be less culpable than he. She is subjected to up to 25 years in jail. 
   I am not talking just about politics. I love the Department of Justice. I spent over 15 years of my career in the Department of Justice. I love the ideals of the Department of Justice. When they sentence young people to jail for long periods of time, any prosecutor, any judge who does not have a moral commitment of the most basic kind to ensure that when people in suits and ties who have a lot of money commit crimes, they serve their time, is not much of a judge or prosecutor, in my view. They are not worthy to carry the badge. 
   What else did they do in this great prosecution that Janet Reno held onto? I was stunned. He was given transactional immunity. Listen to page 3 of the prosecutor's agreement that the judge approved. Not only did they not indict him for the $1.6 million or any of those funds, they gave him absolute immunity. Look at the language. This is the agreement, the contract between the prosecutor and Huang:  
   The United States will not prosecute you for any other violations of Federal law other than those laws relating to national security or espionage, occurring before the date this agreement is signed by you.   
   That is a very dangerous plea agreement. I always warned my assistant U.S. attorneys not to sign those kinds of agreements. Under this agreement, had John Huang committed overt bribery, had it been proven he walked into the Oval Office, as I think he did on a number of occasions, and met the President of the United States and gave him $1 million cash for some bribe, he could never be prosecuted for that. He had complete immunity once this plea agreement was accepted. If he had committed a murder, he had complete immunity under Federal law based on this agreement. If he brought in drugs from the East, he would have been given complete immunity and could not be prosecuted for it. 
   He was given a sweetheart deal, a year probation and a $10,000 fine. That is not worthy of justice in America, I submit. It is a pitiful example of prosecuting, a debasement of justice. It is wrong, not right, not according to ideals and standards. I am stunned reading this document. 
   How did they do it? These Federal Sentencing Guidelines contain some pretty tough stuff. How did they wiggle this thing down to get a probation deal? Let's see. I have the document here. We looked at it. We looked at the factors in this kind of case, including the evidence the judge had, according to the transcript of sentencing. There is probably more evidence than this he could have considered, but we know that the judge was given these facts. 
   The judge started out with a base level of 6. That is the basic sentencing level for this type of fraud or deceit activity. I do not disagree with that. The prosecutors recommended a number of things, and the judge agreed. They recommended only a four-level departure downward for his cooperation. Apparently, the prosecutors felt the level of cooperation rendered by John Huang was not that significant. They asked for a four-level downward departure. 
   In addition, he had to then deal with the factors that would require an upward raising from level 6. 
   The judge found more than minimal planning. He upped it two. Certainly there was more than minimal planning in this deal to raise the money, even for the race in Los Angeles. It was 100-something thousand dollars--$156,000, I believe, for the total--even though he pled guilty specifically to $7,500. They gave him that sentencing and some other increases and decreases and adjustments. 
   I will go over several on which I believe the judge was clearly wrong. 
   In the facts before Judge Paez, I believe the evidence was clear that a substantial part of this fraudulent scheme was committed outside the United States. Indeed, the money came from outside the United States. That is what was illegal about it. 
   In the facts, the prosecutor said in the very information itself:  
   In 1992--  
   This is about the mayor's race--  
   ......defendant Huang and other Lippo Group executives, entered into an arrangement by which (1) Huang and others would identify individuals and entities associated with Lippo Group that were eligible to contribute to various political committees.  
   They would find some people who were not identified as foreign and identify them. That is the first step. 
   The second step, according to the Justice Department prosecutors, was:  
   Huang would solicit the Contributors to make contributions to various political campaign committees.  
   Huang would find buddies at Lippo, and say: You are eligible to give; you give this money. And he would solicit them to give the money. 
   No. 3, the illegal part:  
   Lippo Group--  
   A foreign corporation out of Jakarta, Indonesia, with direct connections to Communist China.  
   Lippo Group would reimburse the Contributors for their contributions.  
   Do my colleagues see what that is? It is the classic launder. Lippo Group cannot give a contribution, so they take one of their employees, Huang, and get him to identify some people who can, and then reimburse him for the contributions. That is specifically provided for in the Federal election campaign law, and it is illegal. Wrong. No-no. You cannot do that. 
   Did some of this involve out-of-the-United States activities? Yes. Under the Federal guidelines, a judge is required to add two levels to the sentencing for that. Did Judge Paez do that? No, he ignored that provision of the sentencing guideline. He had that information because it was in the charge brought against Huang to which Huang admitted and 
   pled guilty. 
   By the way, apparently the pattern of the contributions to the mayor's race was exactly the same as they used in the Presidential race: At least 24 illegal contributions spread out over a course of 2 years involving multiple U.S. and overseas corporate entities of which John Huang was responsible for soliciting and reimbursing the illegal contributions. 
   Those are the facts that were before the court. Judge Paez had that information. 
   Under the normal reading of the sentencing guidelines, that would have added between two and four levels because he would have been acting as an organizer or manager in this criminal activity. He clearly was. He was the hub of it. He was the organizer, the manager, and manipulator of it all. He was the one doing the dirty work to put it together. What did Judge Paez do? He ignored that and did not increase it one level for being an organizer and manager. I believe he clearly was required to do so if he were following the law that was mandated from this Congress. 
   These were the facts before the court. 
   No. 3: John Huang was an officer and director of various corporate entities involved in this case and also was director and vice chairman of a Lippo bank. 
   According to the guidelines, if a person commits a crime, and at the time of committing that crime, abuses ``a position of public or private trust,'' such as a director of a bank--we have that all the time. Bankers are being sentenced, directors are being sentenced, and they have their sentence enhanced because if they are an officer of a bank, the court holds them to a higher standard and they get more time than a teller would get for a similar crime. 
   For abusing ``a position of public or private trust ..... in a manner that significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the offense,'' as section 3B1.3, add two levels. Did the judge do that? No; no increase in levels. 
   When it all settled, Judge Paez was able to do what the prosecutors wanted. He helped them out. He bent the rules. He ignored the rules. He violated the rules. And what level of offense did he find? He found level 8. 
   Why is that important? Level 8 calls for a sentence of from zero to 6 months. A judge can give zero or as high as 6 months. That is the only range if he finds this level. If it had been level 9, zero would not be in the chart. It would not fit. If it was level 9, he would have had to serve time in jail. If it would have added up to, as I think it should have, at least to eight more levels, he would have faced from 12 to 30 months in the slammer, where he ought to be. That would be a good deal for him because that does not include the $1.6 million he raised in the Presidential campaign. 
   I do not know how in America we have become so blase. We have been so beaten down and so overwhelmed with manipulation of lawsuits and courts that I do not think we realize what is happening in this country. I am amazed there was not an absolute outrage by the people who were following this case over this plea. Maybe they thought he really was going to blow the whistle on somebody. Maybe they thought he was going to blow the whistle on the chairman of the Democratic Party or the Vice President or the President or the chairman of the campaign committee or some big fish. Maybe they thought this was not 
   such a bad idea because certainly the prosecutors would not give away the case to get some piddling testimony against Maria Hsia. They probably did not need his testimony against her anyway. 
   I do not know about this. We need a hearing with Judge Paez. Having sentenced young people to jail with no background, no money, bad homes, dealing in drugs, how can he send them off to jail regularly and not send this guy in a suit and tie connected to one of the most wealthy enterprises in the world, the Lippo Group out of Indonesia, connected to Communist China, to jail? Why didn't he see fit to do anything about that? Did it have anything  to do with the fact the President of the United States had nominated him already for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals? 
   That is a troubling thought. He is entitled to have a day's hearing on it, be asked about it, and defend what he did. My analysis is this is not good. 
   Further, in my practice before Federal judges, they were not at all worried about prosecutors. If I had walked into the Southern District of Alabama, before any of the Federal judges in that district--basically, good, solid judges, not political, not out to befriend any political entity--and said, ``In our plea agreement, judge, he is going to plead guilty to contributing to the race of the mayor of Mobile; we are going to give him immunity for all these other charges'', I do not believe I would have the guts to walk in that courtroom. 
   That judge would say: Counsel, I am reading in the New York Times this man gave $1.6 million to the President's race. You have him plead guilty to contributing to the mayor's race, and you give him immunity for that plea? You want me to accept that plea? You are going to have to convince me. Show me. 
   None of that happened. He did not question this plea a bit. He facilitated this coverup because he accepted all their accounting measures which manipulated the guidelines so he could get the sweetheart deal of probation. That is wrong. That is not good. I am troubled by it. 
   I wish I realized this had happened and that we would have slowed down the hearings when they came up so we could have gotten into it. I wish I had. I do not supervise the staff of the Judiciary Committee who does most of the background work. They do a great job. Somehow it just did not get into our brains that this was a problem. 
   The more I investigate, looking in recent weeks at the actual documents from the court, and the more I read about this agreement and the sentencing guideline violations, the more this matter is stunning to me. I do not like it. I believe it is potentially an abuse of justice in America. If that is so, and it was done to protect a political party, or a Presidential candidate, or a Vice President, then why should we reward this judge with an elevation to a higher court by this very President who was protected? Why should we do that? I do not think it is a good idea. 
   In our committee, it was a 10-8 vote that reported out this nomination. Eight members of the committee, based on the judge's own judicial activist views, opposed this nomination. That was before we focused on this at all. I am concerned about that. 
   I wrestled with how to debate this procedurally. I have not agreed with some of my distinguished colleagues that we ought to conduct a filibuster. I just do not like that. I know Senator LEAHY talked about distinguished jurists and all. He did not have any hesitation to oppose Judge Bork, an extremely brilliant person, for the Supreme Court, but he did not filibuster that nomination. We took the vote. He fought it as hard as he could, but he did not filibuster it. 
   I am not one who thinks we need to get into filibustering these nominations. He would be 1 of 28 judges. It would be unfortunate to move us farther to the left in the Ninth Circuit and make it even harder to get back to the mainstream. 
   We ought to recognize he is a sitting Federal judge; he gets a paycheck every week. The difference in pay for a district judge and a circuit judge is not much, frankly; he would hardly miss the money. I think we ought to take a few weeks here and get into this. Let's have a hearing on it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the motion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair, and I thank the Senator from Vermont, the distinguished ranking member of the Judiciary Committee, who has always played a big role in these issues and is an outstanding advocate. If I ever got into trouble, I would like him to represent me. 
   I think that is what we should do. That is the purpose of my motion. In a prompt evaluation of this matter, the public and this country are entitled to know about it, because, remember, once that confirmation is concluded, there is absolutely no other action this or any other body in the United States can take against any judge--in this case, Judge Paez--short of impeaching him for a criminal act. 
   We ought to consider that and take our time here in a few more weeks to settle this matter. We will feel better about ourselves. Perhaps the judge will have an answer. He certainly has a number of friends. He has a good family. 
   I believe his deficiencies for the position revolve around an honestly held political philosophy that I do not agree with--judicial activism. That is the main basis for opposing his nomination. But I am very troubled by the case I cited because I do not understand how it could have been disposed of in the way it was. I believe the judge should have blown the whistle on this with a proper plea bargain. It was not done. I would like to have him have an opportunity to explain why. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to sum up briefly and say there is new evidence that Judge Paez, a sitting district judge, while being nominated to the Ninth Circuit, under nomination by the President of the United States, found on his docket--rightly or wrongly, out of 34 judges--the John Huang case, and he accepts a plea bargain that did not require Huang to plead at all to the $1.6 million in illegal campaign money he raised for the Democratic National Committee, for the Clinton-Gore campaign. 
   He pled guilty only to a small contribution in the city of Los Angeles. He was given immunity for that amount. 
   When the guidelines were calculated based on the evidence the judge had at that time, he should have added two additional levels for having a substantial part of the scheme being outside the United States, two to four additional levels for being an organizer or a manager, and two additional levels for violating a position of trust as the vice president of a bank. Those are levels that should have been added by the judge. He failed to do so. In so doing, he was able to find a level of eight, the highest possible level in which he could give this individual zero time in jail, straight probation, and immunity on the most serious charge. I believe it is wrong, and we need to have a hearing on it to find out how it happened. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, a point of order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I understand the Vice President is in the Chamber. Under the Senate rules, a person who has a personal conflict of interest in a vote is not allowed to vote. I make a parliamentary inquiry---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. As to whether or not the Vice President should be required to recuse himself under these circumstances on the vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, may the Vice President exercise his discretion and recuse himself? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-20000309</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the Paez nomination. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I believe I have the responsibility today to write the majority leader to ask that we not proceed to vote on the Paez nomination, and to ask that additional hearings be held on that nomination to determine whether or not he correctly and properly handled the guilty plea and sentencing of John Huang in Los Angeles, CA, that fell before his jurisdiction in the Los Angeles district court. 
   This is a matter of importance. It is something we have not gotten to the bottom of. It is something my staff has uncovered as we have come up to this final vote. I believe it is important. 
   Judge Paez is a Federal judge today. He has been controversial because of his activist opinions and background and has been held up longer than any other judge now pending before the Congress. We have only had a few who have had substantial delays, probably fewer than two or three. There are two now who have been delayed. He is still the longest. I do not lightly ask that he be delayed again, but he is a sitting Federal judge; he has a lifetime appointment. It is not as if his law practice is being disrupted and he is being left in limbo about his future. He can continue to work until we get to the bottom of this. 
   The President seeks to have him confirmed to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which is the highest appellate court in the United States except for the Supreme Court. It is a high and important position. We ought to make sure we know what really happened out there when John Huang was sentenced. 
   Basically, that is what happened. The John Huang case was part of the investigation of campaign finance abuses by the Clinton-Gore team in the 1996 election. Mr. Huang is the one who raised $1.6 million, a lot of it from foreign sources, the Riadys in China--those kinds of things. Ultimately, the Democratic National Committee had to refund $1.6 million that they believed they had received wrongfully and illegally. Eventually, the Clinton Department of Justice proceeded with this investigation. 
   The Judiciary Committee chairman, ORRIN HATCH, and the 
   chairman of the Governmental Affairs Committee, FRED THOMPSON from Tennessee, repeatedly urged the U.S. Attorney General not to investigate that case herself because she held her office at the pleasure of the President of the United States. He could remove her at any time. Even if she did a fair and good job with it, people would have reason to question it. They urged her repeatedly--and I have, others have, and a large number of Senators have--to turn this over to an independent counsel. She did on many other investigations. But this one they would not let go of; they held onto it. The President's own appointees held on to this campaign finance investigation. 
   I spent 15 years as a Federal prosecutor, 12 as a U.S. attorney, 2 1/2 as an assistant U.S. attorney. I have personally tried hundreds of cases. I have personally participated in, supervised, and directly handled plea bargains. I know something about the sentencing guidelines, which are mandatory Federal sentencing rules saying how much time one should serve. 
   What happened is that the case did not go before a Federal grand jury for indictment. The prosecutor, a Department of Justice employee, and Mr. Huang and his attorneys met and discussed the case. They reached a plea agreement. That plea agreement called for him to plead guilty to illegal contributions to the mayor's race in Los Angeles for $7,500--maybe another little plea, but I think it was just that $7,500--and he would be given immunity for the $1.6 million or any illegal contributions he may have received for the Clinton-Gore campaign that had to be refunded. He would be given immunity for that. He was supposed to cooperate and testify. That was going to justify the sentence. 
   After they reached this agreement and Mr. Huang agreed to waive his constitutional rights to be indicted by a grand jury, he said: Don't take me before a grand jury. You make a charge, Mr. Prosecutor, called an information, instead of an indictment, and I will plead guilty to that. So they worked out an agreement. He agreed to plead guilty to that. 
   Sometimes that is done. It is not in itself wrong, but it is a matter that increases the possibility of an abusive relationship between the prosecutor and the defendant, I must admit. 
   They say that cases are randomly assigned in Los Angeles. There are 34 judges in Los Angeles. Judge Paez was one of those judges. He got the Huang case. Curiously, he also got the Maria Hsia case. They had a case against Maria Hsia in Los Angeles because she was involved in this, too, and they eventually tried her a few days ago and convicted her in Washington on charges of tax evasion, I believe, arising out of this same matter. She was tried and convicted here on separate charges. 
   Oddly, this judge, who was a nominee of the President of the United States, somehow got these cases and presided over them. I think there is a real question whether he should have taken the cases. 
   There is no doubt in my mind, as a professional prosecutor who has been through these cases for many years, that the prosecutor's duty is to make sure the defendant is given credit for cooperating; that is, spilling the beans, admitting he did wrong, asking for mercy in those cases, agreeing to testify about what he knows. When you do that, you are entitled to get less than the sentencing guidelines would cause you to get. 
   But the critical thing is, Mr. Huang knew high officials in this administration and knew the President. I believe he spent the night in the White House. He has certainly been there for meetings at times. So this was a man who had been involved in not just some inadvertent event but a very large effort to solicit foreign money, some of it connected to the country of China, which is a competitor of the United States. It was a big deal case. 
   Knowing that the person who had nominated him at that very moment could have been embarrassed or maybe even found to be guilty of wrongdoing if Mr. Huang spilled all the beans, I am not sure he should have taken the case at all out of propriety, but he took it, assuming he did the right thing. 
   The case then came up for sentencing. Some of the people who defend Judge Paez have told me repeatedly in recent days that they don't believe it was Judge Paez's fault so much as it was the fault of the Department of Justice, that they did not tell him all the truth; they acted improperly; if they had told him all the facts, he may have rendered a more serious sentence than he did under these circumstances. 
   I have had my staff review the plea agreement. Much of it is not available to us. We did not get the pre-sentence report, which I would love to see. We did not get to see some other matters involving the extent of the cooperation of Mr. Huang. That was not available to us. But we do have a transcript of the guilty plea, what went down and what facts were produced and what facts the judge did know and the judge was told. 
   It appears to me the judge was not told all the facts by the Department of Justice. That is a very serious thing, if it occurred. It is a failure on their part to fulfill the high ideals of justice in this country. 
   If we look on the Supreme Court building, right across the street from the Capitol, the words written in big letters on the front of that building are these: Equal justice under law. When charges were brought against President Nixon, the impeachment charges voted  against him were clearly established by the Supreme Court--that the President and no person in this country is above the law. 
   We are a government of laws and not of men. That is a foundation principle of America. It is in our early debates about establishing the Constitution and the rule of law. 
   We are a government of laws and not of men. That was raised during the drafting of the impeachment clause. I remember I researched that at the time. That high ideal was discussed by the people who wrote our Constitution. So I say to you that this was a high-profile case of immense national interest. It had been a subject about which TV and news stories, magazines, newspapers, and so forth have written--the Huang case. The American public had every right to expect this case would be handled scrupulously and that there not be the slightest misstep. 
   A judge with a lifetime appointment ought not to have felt in any way obligated to do anything other than conduct himself according to the fair and just aspects of handling this case. That, to me, was basic. That is why we give the stunning power of a lifetime appointment. But we have to ask that they adhere to high standards in utilizing that power. If they misuse it, we can't vote and say: We don't like the way you are doing your job, judge, we are going to remove you. No. He has a constitutional right to a lifetime appointment, unless he commits an impeachable offense. Bad decisions are not impeachable offenses. 
   So the judge took this case, and I believe he had a high obligation to conduct himself properly. The whole Nation was watching. Maybe he didn't have all the facts, but we found that he started at a base level of 6. Under our Federal sentencing guidelines--many of you may not know, but this Congress did a great thing a number of years ago. When I was prosecuting cases, they eliminated parole and put a restriction on how a judge could sentence. They said you have to carefully evaluate every case that comes before you, and we have a sentencing commission that goes over the details. 
   There are guidelines about what you must find. If you find the defendant used a gun, or that he is a previously convicted felon, or that he used corrupt means to organize an entity, all of these factors could increase the time he or she serves in jail. How much money was involved could increase the time in jail; a little bit is less, and more is more. Judges have used all of those guidelines. But there was great concern in the Congress that many judges in Federal court didn't sentence appropriately. You might have an offense in one district that is treated one way, and it might be treated much more lightly in another district. So he got the base level for that. 
   One of the factors that the judge had awareness of and had the evidence on was that a substantial part of this fraudulent scheme was committed outside the United States. Under the sentencing guidelines, that calls for adding two different levels to this sentence. Judge Paez made no adjustment. He did not increase the level for the fact that in part of this scheme the money came from outside the United States. People who were giving the money were from outside the United States. A substantial part of this involved international activity. That is precisely the motive behind adding to punishment within the level of guidelines. The judge failed to do so. I believe he clearly should have done so under the circumstances. 
   He also had evidence that at least 24 illegal contributions were spread out over the course of 2 years involving multiple U.S. and overseas corporate entities, which John Huang was responsible for soliciting and reimbursing these illegal contributions. So he was actively involved with these corporations. Under Federal guidelines, ``If an individual is an 
   organizer or a manager that significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the offense''--that is a direct quote--``under 3(b)1.3, he should be given a 2 to 4 level increase.'' 
   Judge Paez gave him no level increase for those two acts. John Huang also was ``an officer and director of various corporate entities involved and also was a director and vice chairman of a bank.'' What does that mean when you are doing sentencing guidelines? Under the guidelines, if an individual abuses a position of public or private trust, such as using his position as a board director and vice president of a bank in a manner that significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the offense, then he should have added two additional levels for that. Right there, we are talking about at least six, maybe eight, different additional levels. The judge found no increases for that. 
   So when he pleaded guilty, Judge Paez found that his level was eight. That is very critical because, I am sad to say, that is the highest level you can have and still get probation and not spend a day in jail. It calls for a sentence of zero to 6 months if you have level 8. If the judge wants to be tough, he can give him 6 months if he falls under level 8. If he wants to be lenient, he can give straight probation, or zero time in jail. Judge Paez gave him probation, the lowest possible sentence. If it would have been level 9, the lowest possible sentence would have been time in the slammer, in the bastille where he belonged. 
   I am troubled by that. I know there was a lot of pressure to move this case along, get this case out of the way and not have any embarrassment. I am sure there was a lot of tension. But a lifetime-appointed Federal judge should have a commitment to the highest standards of integrity. Even if it involved the President of the United States, the man who appointed him, he should not play with the sentencing guidelines. I assure you that 18-, 19-, and 25-year-old kids, every day, going into Federal court--and I have seen it; I presided over them--are getting 10, 15, 25 years without parole because they are significant drug dealers and they have been selling crack. They are sent off to the slammer and nobody worries about them. 
   So how is it that John Huang raises $1.6 million that had to be returned, pleads guilty to some token offense on a contribution to the mayor of Los Angeles, and he gets to walk out without 1 day in jail? Well, the prosecutor was at fault, in my opinion. This was an unjustified disposition of this case, in light of the circumstances involved. 
   I cannot imagine that anybody can ultimately defend the disposition of this case. They may say, well, the judge just followed the prosecutor's recommendation. The judge did follow the prosecutor's recommendation, but he was not required to do so. In that plea bargain, as I noted, it said the judge is not required to follow this plea bargain. If he, Mr. Huang, rejects it, we will withdraw the plea and we will go back to square one and start all over. The judge is not required to accept it. The judge wasn't required to accept the plea, and he should not have accepted this plea. 
   These are the exact words from the plea agreement:  
   This agreement is not binding on the court. The United States and you--  
   Meaning Mr. Huang, in the contract between the prosecutor and Mr. Huang--  
   understand that the court retains complete discretion to accept or reject the agreed upon disposition provided for in this agreement. If the court does not accept this agreement, it will be void, and you will be free to withdraw your plea of guilty. If you do withdraw your plea of guilty, this agreement made in connection with it and the discussions leading up to it shall not be admissible against you in any court.  
   That is standard language. I have used it many times myself. The judge was obligated to follow the law of the United States. He was obligated to make sure justice occurred, if there was equal justice under the law. 
   I don't know how judges who send kids to jail for 20 years without parole can sleep at night when they are talking about letting this guy off the hook for this offense. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Let me just say to the Senator that I have asked for an additional hearing to find out if I might be wrong about this and hear both sides of it. But I am not going to support a filibuster on this nomination. If we do that, we will just vote on it, as far as I am concerned. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will finish, and the Senator can respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am sorry. I will be happy to enter into a dialogue and come back to it later. 
   Senator SPECTER was, in fact, a State prosecutor. He is familiar in that boiler room of Philadelphia when judges are sitting up there and prosecutors come forward on burglary cases. The judge is a victim. He has to take the recommendation of the prosecutor and does so routinely. Federal judges try to do that, but it is always recognized that they have ultimate responsibility, as this plea agreement says. 
   In a case of national importance, which in itself just on the face of it does not pass the smell test, in my view, he should not have accepted it. 
   Another thing Senator SPECTER has never done is handle the sentencing guidelines. They were not a part of the State courts of Philadelphia or Pennsylvania, but they were a part of the 
   Federal court where Judge Paez was sitting. I don't think Senator SPECTER has ever considered the fact that the evidence is what the judge had, and he did not have all that he should have had. But what he did have indicates that he did not properly apply the guidelines. That is the only thing he can be responsible for, in my view. If evidence was withheld from him, I understand that. But what I have been quoting here is what he did have. 
   I also note in Roll Call, in the Republican Representative Jay Kim probation case, they said Judge Paez's sentence of Representative Kim was a mere slap on the wrist and makes us think that the Senate Judiciary Committee ought to question whether or not Paez is too soft on criminals to be a Federal judge. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. 
   I hate to ask this to be delayed. But he is a sitting Federal judge. It is not messing up his Federal practice in a couple or three weeks to get to the bottom of this and how the case was assigned, because it didn't come out of an indictment by a grand jury, it came out of the handling by the prosecutor. In my experience, those cases are not randomly assigned. Quite often, they are taken directly by the prosecutor to the judge. 
   I would like to have somebody under oath explain to me how the Hsia case and the Huang case went to Judge Paez. Out of 34 judges, they went to Judge Paez. That doesn't strike well with me. I would like to know that before we go forward with the vote. If he has a good answer, I am willing to accept it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak approximately 12 minutes on the Paez nomination. I don't know whether there is any agreement on that. Otherwise, I will do it in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I remain very troubled by this nomination. I know it has been pending for a long time because of the controversy surrounding the activism of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to which Judge Paez has been nominated and by Judge Paez's own personal history of activism and his philosophy of judging that indicates to me he is quite clearly right along with the leftward group in tilt and movement of that circuit. We need to remove that circuit to the mainstream, not continue it out in left field, not having it be reversed 17 times, unanimously, by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1 year, a record that has never been met and probably never will be surpassed by any circuit in history. We need to get that circuit in the mainstream of law. Judge Paez will keep it out of the mainstream. 
   But we have had recent developments. We have been looking into Judge Paez's handling and acceptance of the guilty plea of John Huang, in Los Angeles, where he is a sitting district judge, Federal court judge. I believe there are a number of factors that indicate to me that that was not handled properly, not handled according to the highest standards of justice and, in fact, the plea bargain and sentence he approved was not justified under the law, and that he violated Federal guidelines in order to approve a plea bargain that was unacceptable, in my view, as to what should have occurred in the disposition of that case. 
   So I believe, and I have asked, and I have written the majority leader and asked that he pull this nomination off the floor and we be allowed to go back to committee and have live witnesses, under oath, to find out how it was, out of 34 judges who could have heard the Huang case in Los Angeles, that this case got to Judge Paez, the one who was already being nominated by the President for a court of appeals that is one step below the U.S. Supreme Court. How did it go to him? 
   Also, we had the Maria Hsia case that was recently tried here in Washington, and she was convicted. I believe there was a mistrial in California, but he had that case, too. How did this judge, out of 34, get both those cases that had great potential to embarrass the President, because this was the key part of the campaign finance corruption scandal? John Huang is the guy who raised $1.6 million in illegal funds from foreign sources that the Democratic National Committee had to return because they were illegally obtained. 
   Then he comes in and the Department of Justice, which was urged by the chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate and the House, Members of this body--we urged the Department of Justice to send a special prosecutor to handle this case, and she did, in a number of cases; Attorney General Janet Reno did make special appointments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will be glad to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I reclaim the floor. I appreciate the question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Maria Hsia was indicted in California and charged here. She had a hung jury there and was convicted here. That was a critical case to the Clinton-Gore administration. It was important to them. She had the potential to cooperate and talk. 
   At any rate, it still remains odd to me that in these high-profile cases about which much has been written in recent weeks, one of which was tried here in Washington, Judge Paez got both of them. 
   I submit to my colleagues that perhaps that circuit is assigning those cases randomly, but this case of John Huang did not come off an indictment; it came off a plea bargain. I have a copy of the plea bargain which is part of the public record in California. It was signed by John Huang, his attorneys, and the prosecutor, a Department of Justice employee of Janet Reno who holds her job in Washington at the pleasure of the President of the United States, whose campaign was involved in this illegality. That is who was making the decision on the prosecutorial end. 
   To me, the question is whether or not the judge handled himself correctly. Some say the judge did not know of all this material and it was not his fault; it was the prosecutor's fault. I do believe the prosecutors failed in advocating effectively the interests of the people of the United States and the rule of law in this case. 
   In California, young people every day are getting sent to jail for 15 years, 20 years, without parole, for dealing in crack cocaine and other violations. A guy raises $1.6 million from the Chinese Government and launders it into the Democratic National Committee, and what does he walk out with? Total probation, not a day in jail. That is wrong. 
   This is how they did it. This is a plea agreement. First and foremost, a judge is not bound to accept the plea agreement. He does not have to accept it. I am going to read the language in this agreement that talks about that. This is Huang and his attorneys and the U.S. attorney prosecutor. They signed this agreement. It says:  
   This agreement is not binding on the Court.  
   And the court in this case is Judge Paez.  
   The United States and you--  
   Huang--  
   understand that the Court retains complete discretion to accept or reject the agreed-upon disposition provided for in Paragraph 15(f) of this Agreement.  
   They had an agreement, but the judge had every right not to accept it. It goes on to say: 
   In addition, should the Court reject the Agreement and should you thereafter withdraw your guilty plea--  
   They said if the judge did not follow this recommendation of probation, John Huang could withdraw his plea and go to trial and declare his innocence and they would not use anything he said against him. 
   It goes on to say:  
   ..... without prejudice ..... to indictment--  
   In your defense. 
   It goes on in detail about it. That is normally done. I was a Federal prosecutor. I am aware of that. 
   They had the deal arranged. They took it to him. He was not given all of the facts in the case, but he was given enough facts in the case and he was aware of enough facts to reject this plea. 
   I want to go over with my colleagues a couple of the items. I mentioned them earlier, but this is so critical. This is why we need to take some time to pause before we confirm this man for a lifetime appointment to a court one step below the U.S. Supreme Court. We waited and fought for 4 years as to whether or not he should be confirmed. Now we have these new charges pending, and I do not see why in the world we cannot be given 3 weeks--just 3 weeks--to inquire into it and make a decision. 
   This is what he was given. He was given evidence that a substantial part of the fraudulent scheme was committed outside the United States because this was foreign money. If that is true, the judge was required to add two levels to the sentencing. He added no levels to the sentencing for that. 
   He was told there were 24 illegal contributions spread out over a course of 2 years involving multiple overseas corporate entities of which June Huang was responsible for soliciting the money and reimbursing the contributions. That should have added two to four new levels. 
   He was an officer and a director in a bank, and as an officer and a director, he should have had two levels added for abusing a position of public or private trust. 
   These are not requests. These are matters at which the judge is supposed to look. They are mandates of law. He ignored all of those, and that is how the judge came out with a sentence level of 8 and not maybe 14 because if it had been a level 9, one more level up, and this sentence would have required John Huang to go to jail at least some time. 
   The Department of Justice did not want him to go to jail. They wanted him to have a deal. He spent not one day in jail and pled to a contribution to the mayor's race of the city of Los Angeles and did not plea to any criminal charge relating to the 1996 Presidential campaign and, in fact, I want to note what this plea agreement said. It grants him immunity on all of those charges. This is what the agreement said, America. Listen to this. This is serious business. 
   It said: Judge, if you accept this plea, the prosecutors of the United States will not prosecute you, John Huang, for any other violations of law other than those laws relating to national security or espionage occurring before the date of this agreement signed by you. 
   He could have been found to commit murder. Giving blind immunity is a very dangerous commitment to make. He could have committed embezzlement. He could have committed bribery. He could never be prosecuted. He got his probation deal, he walked out of court, and he received no time in jail. 
   There was no evidence presented in court about the $1.6 million he spent in this campaign for the Democratic National Committee, which was illegal and had to be returned. None of that came out. It was not a plea bargain; it was a wrong plea bargain. He should have looked those lawyers in the eye and said: Gentlemen, I have the right to reject this plea and I do. This is a matter of national importance. It is a matter that goes to the core of justice and our commitment in this country to equal justice under law. 
   He did not do so. He actually went along with a procedure in which he accepted guideline levels that he could not justify and that were wrong. He was affirmatively wrong. He maybe should have had more evidence, but he had enough to reject this agreement. 
   I know my time is up, Mr. President. I believe strongly in this. We ought not to be doing this. We ought not to be shoving this through. This man ought not to be on the bench until we know precisely how he got this case and why, and have him stand up under oath and explain why he did not follow the plain guidelines of the law of the United States of America. I believe strongly in it. I have voted for an overwhelming number of Federal judges put forth by this administration. This Congress has rejected only 1 out of over 300-something. This one has been controversial from the beginning, and he ought not go forward. 
   Mr. President, my time is up, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, you have practiced in the Ninth Circuit. So has the distinguished assistant minority leader. There is no doubt that over a period of years, the Ninth Circuit has been reversed more than any other circuit. Their record of having 27 out of 28 reversed in 1 year is absolutely unprecedented. It has never been approached by any other circuit. 
   As a Federal prosecutor who spent 15 years full time in Federal court, I can assure my colleagues there is no circuit in America that is looked on with less respect on questions of law enforcement than the Ninth Circuit. It is the furthest left Circuit in the American judiciary, and there is no doubt about it. There are some great people there. They are wonderful. I would not mind having them over to my home discussing great legal issues, but they have been outside the mainstream of American law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The D.C. Circuit had one case and Federal Circuit had one case reviewed by the Supreme Court, whereas the Ninth Circuit had 27 out of 28 reversed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I do admit, in 1996, it looks as if the D.C. Circuit and the First Circuit had one case considered by the Supreme Court and it was reversed. D.C. Circuit had one, and it was reversed. And the Federal appeals court had one, and it was reversed. 
   Let me show you an article from the New York Times. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. All right. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The Seventh had three cases, and those were reversed. Over the 3 years--I have done the numbers--the Ninth Circuit remains No. 1 in the number of cases reversed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The New York Times had an article some time ago, saying this:  
   The Ninth Circuit, which sits in San Francisco, remains the country's most liberal appeals court, and there is some evidence that the Supreme Court's conservative majority--  
   I would say it is a moderate to conservative majority--  
   views it as something of a rogue circuit, especially on questions of criminal law and even more particularly on the death penalty.  
   That is from the New York Times, which certainly is not a conservative organ, particularly on legal matters. I think they are misunderstanding the importance of a lot of legal matters, frankly, but that is a comment they made, their observation. 
   That is why the Ninth Circuit has been reversed so regularly. As a matter of fact, I will mention a little later in my remarks--I believe in 1996-1997--there were 17 reversals in that year of the Ninth Circuit by a unanimous U.S. Supreme Court. In other words, the liberal and conservative members of the Supreme Court, in 17 out of 27 cases reversed, unanimously agreed the Ninth Circuit was wrong. I think that is a matter that we ought to think about. 
   I may go into that more because it is important to my analysis of how we ought to vote on these nominees. 
   There are two purposes for my remarks today. I would like to enter into the RECORD the results of the research I have done on two nominees--Mrs. Berzon and Judge Paez--for the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. My research forms the basis for my opposition to their nominations. 
   I would like my colleagues who do not sit on the Judiciary Committee, as I do, and who were not part of the initial evaluation process of these nominees to have the benefit of the full record and my observations on it. 
   Secondly, I would like to take this opportunity to ask my colleagues to consider the points I am raising and to join me in opposition to these nominees. 
   First, I would like to mention, I believe it is 330 or 340 nominees that have been brought forward by the President. Only one of those 300-plus nominees has been voted down on this floor. 
   We now have two nominees that have been held up for some time because they have been particularly controversial, and they are nominees to a particularly controversial circuit. That is what the Senate ought to do. We are not a potted plant. We are not a rubber stamp. We have given fair and just consideration to nominee after nominee after nominee of this President. We have confirmed his nominees overwhelmingly; 300-something to 1 have been confirmed to this date. 
   In terms of vacancies, nearly half of the vacancies that now exist in the Federal courts in this country are because the President has not submitted a nomination yet. This Senate cannot vote on a nomination when we do not have a nominee. The President is required to nominate. He ought to be careful. He ought not to rush in and pick the first name that comes out of a hat. But I am just saying that we are close to what experts have declared to be a full employment Federal judiciary. 
   I do not think that we have a crisis in failing to move nominees. We are going to continue to move them. We are going to have other votes on nominees this year; some which I will support 
   and others who I will oppose. 
   I do not believe we ought to take these decisions about how to vote on a judicial nominee lightly. Having had to undergo, myself, an unsuccessful confirmation process for a Federal judgeship, I know better than most the thoughts and feelings these nominees have. That is why I always make sure I treat them in a respectful manner. I do not believe they are people who are unworthy in a lot of ways. What I believe is that their deeply held personal views are such that even though I might respect them as a person for those views, I do not believe that at this point in time, for this circuit, these nominees ought to be approved. I believe that very deeply. That is why I am here and share these comments. 
   I have done my best to ensure that the concerns I have raised about a nominee have been fair and objective over the 3 years I have been in this body. I try to ask questions that are appropriate and make sure that we are treating people fairly. 
   For a variety of reasons, I regrettably have concluded that Berzon and Paez should not be confirmed. 
   Let me talk about the Ninth Circuit in a fashion that I think is fair and gives an overall perspective. 
   First, we need to look at the problems that are in existence now in this circuit. It is the largest circuit, covering Alaska, Hawaii, the State of Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, and Montana, as well as Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. This amounts to roughly 38 percent of the country's area, approximately 50 million people. 
   In recent years, this circuit has been singled out to be the subject of increased scrutiny by the Supreme Court because of its tendency to engage in judicial activism. 
   In other words, roughly 20 percent of the American population lives in this circuit in which the rule of law is regularly being challenged by the issuance of activist opinions by ideologically driven Federal judges. 
   But do not just take my word for it. We have the article in the New York Times describing this circuit that I just quoted. The court's conservative majority--five members of the Supreme Court of the United States constitutes a majority; they are all not conservatives, a lot of them are more  moderate judges--they view it as something of a rogue circuit. That is strong language, I submit. If you look at the reversal figures for the Ninth Circuit, I believe you will tend to agree with the assessment made in that article. 
   In my experience as a Federal prosecutor, I found that a reliable index of a court's performance is the history of the circuit's reversals. 
   For the benefit of individuals who may be watching this debate at home and are not familiar with the workings of the Federal judicial system, a reversal rate is simply the measurement of the number of times a decision entered by that circuit is being reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court--changed or reversed because the lower court's decision was incorrect. 
   These figures illustrate the instances in which a judge, or in this case, a circuit is acting incorrectly. Reversal rates are a warning system of judicial activism and judicial error. 
   What do the statistics say? Do they lend validity to the New York Times charge I just cited? As a matter of fact, a fair reading of the reversal figures for this circuit does reveal that year after year, the Ninth Circuit leads the Nation in the number of times it is reversed in total numbers. It is the highest in percentage. 
   By way of illustration, allow me to present the reversal figures for the last three terms for which I have the data. In the 1996-1997 term, 28 cases were reviewed; that is, the Supreme Court agreed to hear 28 cases that arose out of the Ninth Circuit. Many times the Supreme Court does not hear a case unless it is important for them to hear it. They hear a case because a circuit rendered an opinion that they believe is plainly wrong. They hear a case if a circuit has rendered an opinion that is contrary to the other 11 circuit courts of appeals. 
   They think there ought to be a uniform answer. So the Supreme Court renders the answer and, once it does, every circuit is bound by that answer. But in terms of the cases that are being heard by the Eleventh Circuit, hundreds, thousands of cases go through that on an annual basis. And most of those, even if wrong, will never be reviewed by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court cannot and will not review every wrong case in America. It picks those that are most important, that will likely perpetuate an error, and tries to correct it and create a uniform system of law in the country. 
   Again, there were 27 out of 28 cases in 1996. That, in my view, is a stunning figure. It is a figure unmatched at any time by any circuit anywhere. In the 1997-98 term, the court reviewed 17 opinions and reversed 13 of those in the Ninth Circuit. In 1998-99, they reviewed 18 opinions and reversed 14. And this year, they have only heard, to date, six opinions from the Ninth Circuit, and they reversed all six of them. 
   This is from an article that appeared in the University of Oregon Law Review in 1998. The title of the article was ``Reversed, Vacated and Split: The Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit, and the Congress.'' The author, realizing this is an important, newsworthy item, wrote a law review on it and said:  
   Another interesting phenomenon is that the Supreme Court unanimously agreed--across the political spectrum--that the Ninth Circuit was wrong seventeen times during the [1996-97] term. This is a fairly remarkable record, considering that the rest of the Circuits combined logged in with only twenty unanimous votes, seven of which were affirmances.  
   Only 13 unanimous reversals throughout the whole United States, 17 in the Ninth Circuit. This circuit is out of step, in my view. In other words, over the 3-year span from 1996 through 1999, the Ninth Circuit has reversed 54 of 63 cases examined by the U.S. Supreme Court. That means that of the cases the Supreme Court has reviewed, the Ninth Circuit has been wrong a staggering 86 percent of the time. No other circuit in my analysis approaches these kind of numbers. 
   If this number were not bad enough on its own, it becomes truly appalling when it is compared to the number of reversals in the other circuits. Over the same 3-year period in which the Ninth Circuit was reversed 54 times, the next highest total number of reversals in any circuit was 14 out of 24 cases reviewed occurring in the Eighth Circuit and 14 reversals out of 22 cases in the Fifth Circuit. 
   In fact, the Ninth Circuit is so substantially wrong so much of the time that it even leads in the number of instances in which the U.S. Supreme Court is unanimous. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has a limited docket and gets the opportunity to only review a relative handful of cases which any of the circuits or the Ninth Circuit adjudicates. So while the reversal rates are very revealing on their own, they fail in one troubling regard. They are unable to accurately quantify the number of activist or just plain wrong decisions that get through and become established law in the circuit because they cannot be reviewed by the Supreme Court. This is a sobering thought, and it is why we need to insist that we will only confirm judges to the Ninth Circuit who will move that court into the mainstream of American legal thought and not confirm judges who will continue the Ninth Circuit's leftward drift. That is the plain duty and responsibility of all of us in this body. 
   Many of these are just not trivial errors. If it is heard by the U.S. Supreme Court, it is a significant error. These reversal figures are not being inflated by mere inadvertence. Instead, they are the products of a seeming desire by the circuit to make law when the opportunity arises. In fact, I will describe one of the cases the Supreme Court has reversed in which the Ninth Circuit, without restraints, twisted the Constitution to further what appears to me to be their political goals. 
   In the case of Washington v. Glucksburg, the Ninth Circuit struck down the State of Washington's ban on assisted suicide by reading a constitutionally protected ``right to die'' into the 14th amendment. The 14th Amendment doesn't say anything about a right to die. I revere the text of the Constitution, and I assure my colleagues that there is nothing in that amendment that says anything about a right to die. Just look it up. 
   Despite the clear language of the 14th amendment, the Ninth Circuit judges chose to read into it the social policy outcome the circuit desired, overturning the will of the people of Washington who had voted for this law. That is what we are talking about. We have elected representatives in the State of Washington, elected by the democratic process, a free vote, held accountable. If they vote wrongly, they can be voted out of office. But what about Federal judges who are appointed. The only review they ever get is in this Senate. If we fail--and we do too often--they just go right on the bench and serve for life. No matter how wrong their opinions are, they get to stay in there. Who ought to set policy in America if we have a republic? I believe this a responsibility of the elected branch, not the lifetime-appointed branch. 
   The reason these issues are important is that it goes to the question of fundamental rights of the people to set the standards in America. The Ninth Circuit threw out the law that was passed by the legislature because the Ninth Circuit judges chose to read into it the social policy they desired even though it meant overturning the will of the people. This is what we classically call judicial activism. In an ironic twist, the Ninth Circuit employed their apparent belief in a living Constitution, which is what liberal people say the Constitution is, a living document. It is a piece of paper; it is not living. It is a contract with the American people entered into by our ancestors. The Ninth Circuit evidently said it is a living document, and, ironically, they read into this living document a right to die. 
   Upon review, the U.S. Supreme Court corrected the Ninth Circuit and restored the validity of Washington State's ban on assisted suicide. In blunt language, the U.S. Supreme Court reminded the Ninth Circuit that:  
   *.*.* in almost every State--indeed, in almost every Western democracy--it is a crime to assist suicide. The States' assisted suicide bans are not innovations. Rather they are longstanding expressions of the States' commitment to protection and preservation of human life. *.*.*  
   I submit to you, the Supreme Court was directing that language to them directly. The judges on that circuit knew that was a rebuke, in my opinion. In fact, the Supreme Court further used the Glucksburg case to illustrate just how far out of the mainstream the Ninth Circuit is. The Supreme Court wrote further:  
   Here *.*.* we are confronted with a consistent and almost universal tradition that  has long rejected the asserted right, and continues to explicitly reject it today, even for terminally ill, mentally competent adults. To hold for the respondents [the way the Ninth Circuit did] we would have to reverse centuries of legal doctrine and practice, and strike down the considered policy choice of almost every state.  
   But these unelected judges, with lifetime appointments, in no way accountable to the American people, just blithely go in there and wipe out the right, the statute of the State of Washington, and claim that the 14th amendment to the Constitution of the United States directed them to do so. 
   And that is bogus because there is nothing in the 14th amendment that says anything of the kind. They got busted by the U.S. Supreme Court for it. That is just one of the cases. This is a recent one, and that is the reason I quoted it. 
   Glucksburg does not stand by itself on this dishonorable list of activist Ninth Circuit opinions that have been struck down, of course, but it is a perfect illustration of judicial arrogance that seems to permeate many judges, particularly in this circuit, and it helps frame the point that many of us who care about maintaining the rule of law in this country constantly make. We have a responsibility as Senators to ensure that the judicial branch is composed of individuals who will faithfully interpret the Constitution and the laws of this country. If we have doubts about a nominee's ability to do that, then we have a responsibility, a constitutional duty, if you will, under our advise and consent power to reject the nominee. 
   The President has the power to nominate, but we are given the power to advise and consent, which means in effect, in the words of the Constitution, we have a right to reject a nominee if we do not consent. 
   While statistics and written opinions are useful in looking at this troubled circuit, they do not get to the heart of the matter in that they don't answer the fundamental question as to why this circuit behaves in such an aberrational manner. I have looked at these issues and what legal analysts have said, and I want to share findings with you. Essentially, my findings strongly support an argument that one of the core problems with the Ninth Circuit is its composition of judges. 
   The Oregon State Bar Bulletin, in 1997, identified the current composition of judges on the Ninth Circuit as a primary cause of the circuit's extraordinarily high reversal rate. In fact, the author found:  
   There is probably an element of truth to the claim that the Ninth Circuit has a relatively higher proportion of liberal judges than other circuits. .....  
   Furthermore, the analysis concluded:  
   The effect of the Carter appointments is that, relative to other circuits, there is a greater likelihood that a Ninth Circuit panel will be comprised mostly of liberals. This may result in decisions in some substantive areas that are out of step with the current thinking of the Supreme Court and other circuits.  
   In other words, when you have a substantial number on there, and a panel is randomly selected of three judges to hear a case, that is the way they do it. Three of the 20-some other judges will be selected to be on the panel. All three of them could be activist selectees. So the opinion may not even really speak for the Ninth Circuit. That points out again how important it is that we have a balance on the circuit to avoid panels routinely coming up that are out of step with mainstream legal thinking of the Supreme Court and other circuits throughout the United States. 
   One of the big reasons for this is, there was a major expansion of the size of the Ninth Circuit during President Carter's administration. It allowed him to make a number of appointments--an incredibly large number of appointments--and now we see that President Clinton has similarly successfully appointed a large number. Of the 23 judges that are active on the circuit, Democratic Presidents have appointed 15 of them. In fact, President Clinton has already appointed 10 and confirmed them to this circuit, and he has 5 additional nominees, including Paez and Berzon, awaiting Senate action, giving him the opportunity to have personally, himself, appointed 15 of the 28 judges. 
   So it is easy to see why activists and liberals are interested and chomping at the bit to push these nominations through, so it will solidify the stranglehold that Democrats and liberal activists have on this court. In fact, this is the impetus that drives me to believe we need to and are justified in reviewing more carefully 
   nominees to this circuit. It is all right for there to be Democrats and for people to be liberal; every judicial nominee who has come up here since the Clinton Administration took office has been a Democrat and liberal. But the question for these nominees is: Will they remain disciplined and honor the law? Do they have a history and a tendency to impose their will under the guise of interpreting law? This is the fundamental question we have to answer. 
   I voted against Raymond Fisher to the circuit last year as I believed he was an activist nominee who would perpetuate this circuit's leftward drift, and I was joined by 28 colleagues in opposition to that nomination. I was able to support the nomination of Ronald Gould to the circuit after reviewing his record and hearing him in the Judiciary Committee. I believed him to be someone who was likely to serve as a moderating force to temper the activism of this circuit, and I believed his nomination was proof that my efforts, which I communicated to the White House, to begin sending moderate nominees forward was beginning to pay off. Regrettably, however, neither Judge Paez nor Mrs. Berzon meets that standard. I do not believe they will restore balance. As a matter of fact, I believe their nominations represent a further move to the left. 
   Let's talk about Judge Paez. I don't have anything against him personally. He is a fine man, and he has a fine family. But it should be noted that both of these nominees, Berzon and Paez, were controversial even in the Judiciary Committee. Both came out of the committee with only a 10-8 vote--pretty unusual--which is the highest level of opposition any judicial nomination faced in the committee. This vote reflected serious concerns committee members have with regard to the records these two nominees have compiled over their careers. In my opinion, the record of each indicates that confirming them to this circuit would be like adding fuel to the fire. 
   I want to begin this discussion by focusing first on Judge Paez. First, he is, in fact, a self-proclaimed activist. This is remarkable. If there is one thing the Ninth Circuit does not need, it is a nominee who will maintain activist traditions. However, his own words show that he is just that. First, he called himself a person with ``liberal political views.'' While this is hardly incriminating in itself, these statements do indicate some of the tendencies he might have. In his own words, he described his judicial philosophy as including an appreciation for--I will read this to you and ask you to think about these words carefully. This is from the Los Angeles daily Journal:  
   The need of the courts to act when they must, when the issue has been generated as a result of the failure of the political process to resolve a certain political question. .....  
   So as a failure, in his view, of the political process to resolve a certain political question, the courts can act, and they must act. 
   He goes on to say:  
   because in such an instance [Paez explained] ``there's no choice but for the courts to resolve the question that perhaps ideally and preferably should be resolved through the legislative process.''  
   Now, that is a statement by an already sitting judge that a judge has the power, when a legislative body fails to act, to do what that judge believes he must to solve the policy problem before him. I submit to you, that is the very definition of what activism by the judiciary is. 
   Think about this. When a legislative body fails to act, it has made a decision just as certainly as if it had decided to act. A decision not to act is a decision. It is a decision made by elected representatives, and if the people who send them to Washington or to the State legislature don't agree, they can remove them from office. But can you remove a Federal judge who declares he has a right to act when the legislature does not? Can you remove that person? No, you cannot, under the Constitution, because he has a lifetime appointment with no ability to be reviewed whatsoever. That is one of the most thunderous powers ever given by our Founding Fathers, I have to say. In many ways, it works well. 
   Judges are free, for the most part--Federal judges  who I have practiced before for 15 years during the majority of my career as a professional lawyer in Federal court, almost entirely. I respect Federal judges. But when you have a Federal judge who has an activist mentality, who believes that he or she has the power to solve political questions when the legislature does not act, you have the makings of a rogue jurist, and you cannot contain that person. It costs litigants thousands and thousands of dollars to appeal their rulings. They cannot always get to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is too busy. Even if they have a bad ruling, they can't always get there to get it reversed. Sometimes they are just stuck by these rulings no matter what they do. 
   That is wrong. That is a philosophy of adjudication that is false. It is precisely what Americans are concerned about. It should not be affirmed by this body in approving this judge to a circuit that is already out of control, in my opinion. 
   The record indicates that the judge is hostile to law enforcement. We have to be careful about that. I prosecuted many years, as I said. A judge can rule against a prosecutor, and he cannot appeal. If he rules against a defendant, the defendant can appeal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Very well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I was going to mention a few reasons for that. 
   I believe his record would indicate that he is not going to provide the kind of balanced adjudication that would be required in law enforcement matters. 
   For example, shortly after the judge was nominated, Los Angeles newspapers--I know the Senator supported his nomination, or was responsible perhaps for it--were filled with quotes made by his supporters. 
   One supporter happened to be Ramona Ripston, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. Now, I would like to state for the RECORD that I doubt that the ACLU shares my concerns about the Ninth Circuit's activist bent. In any event, Ms. Ripston welcomed Paez' nomination to the Federal Bench describing Judge Paez as: ``A welcome break after all the pro-law enforcement people we've seen appointed to the state and federal courts''. 
   From the ACLU's position, Ms. Ripston's support for Judge Paez appears to be well-justified, as Judge Paez soon began to issue anti-law enforcement opinions. One case in point involved the case of Los Angeles Alliance for Survival v. City of Los Angeles, in which Judge Paez granted an injunction sought by the ACLU which prohibited the city's ordinance prohibiting aggressive panhandling from taking effect. 
   The city had an ordinance against aggressive panhandling passed by the people of Los Angeles. And a judge just up and threw it out, and said it was unconstitutional; no matter what you pass, I am the judge; no good, out. 
   The ordinance, incidentally, was passed following the stabbing death of an individual who would not give a panhandler 25 cents. In his decision, Judge Paez viewed the Los Angeles ordinance as ``facially invalid'' under the ``Liberty of Speech Clause''--I don't know exactly what that is. But the ``Liberty of Speech Clause'' is found in the California's State Constitution. 
   Listen to how one legal commentator described the judge's ruling:  
   Judge Paez struck down the law as an unconstitutional restriction on ``speech'' and issued a preliminary injunction against its enforcement. He found that the ordinance constituted ``content based discrimination'' because it applied only to people soliciting money. Just hope Judge Paez doesn't get his hands on any laws against extortion, bribery or robbery. ``Stick 'em up'' could become Constitutionally protected speech in certain parts of California ..... The identical law has been upheld in other parts of California by other federal judges, but thanks to Judge Paez, the ordinance lawfully enacted over two years ago has yet to be enforced in Los Angeles.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would ask unanimous for one minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I point out in that case the Ninth Circuit asked the California Supreme Court for an advisory opinion. The California Supreme Court reversed Judge Paez' opinion, finding it to be erroneous, and condemned Judge Paez's ruling in exceptional strident terms stating:  
   As noted above, the regulation of solicitation long has been recognized as being within the government's police power. ..... If, as plaintiffs suggest, lawmakers cannot distinguish properly between solicitation for immediate exchange of money and other kinds of speech, then it may be impossible to tailor legislation in this area in a manner that avoids rendering that legislation impermissibly overinclusive. In our view, a court [Judge Paez] should avoid a constitutional interpretation that so severely would constrain the legitimate exercise of government authority in an area in which such regulation long has been acknowledged as appropriate.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000306</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished chairman of our Energy Committee for the remarks. They are not new. He is not making a political statement. Chairman MURKOWSKI is here because he has spoken out for years, virtually since this administration has been in office, about discouraging--through so many rules, regulations, and taxes--the domestic production of oil and gas. 
   He has warned we would be at this point. Here we are. The best way by far to deal with this is to make sure we have more domestic production because it will help keep the prices down, and it will also help ease our balance of payments. 
   I thank the Senator for his leadership on this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000306</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senators from the other side of the aisle made comments about the Republican Presidential primary, taking sides in those primaries. I think it is somewhat odd they would want to debate some of the issues here. 
   With regard to the concerns over contributions that are going to independent groups--I believe New York was complained of--to run TV ads, money was given by a small number of people who made large contributions to run those ads. It was said that this is a justification for passing the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform legislation. 
   My best understanding of what that bill is all about is that this would not  be covered. Fundamentally, the McCain-Feingold bill covered contributions of larger sums of money to political parties but it did not prevent people giving large contributions to an independent environmental group, an independent pro-choice group, or an independent pro-life group so they could run ads during a campaign season and say: Candidate JEFF SESSIONS doesn't agree with our views, vote against him. 
   The problem I have had with campaign finance reform is it was not in this McCain-Feingold bill. Why? Because this is America, these are political campaigns. Is the Senate going to pass a law that says individual American citizens can't raise money and run an ad and express their view as to how the American public should or should not vote on an issue? 
   It is frustrating to have the moneys come in. I certainly believe they ought to be disclosed. I was, I believe, a victim or target of one of these ads when I ran for the Senate 3 years ago. It came under the guise of an environmental group, but I 
   know the money came mainly to beat up on me. 
   How can anyone say that is wrong? How can we say a group cannot raise money and run ads during an election campaign season about issues? I am troubled by that. I am frustrated not having a lot of money myself, facing two candidates in my primary, both of whom spent over $1 million of their own money, most of it beating up on me. I was struggling with $1,000 maximum contributions per person to try to fight back. I was able to do so. Fortunately, the American people don't vote on who has the most money. There are other issues. We have seen that time and time again. They are pretty sophisticated in how to evaluate this. 
   I am troubled by this idea that we can, out of some sort of vision of good government, blithely walk in and say candidates are not going to be able to raise money; they are not going to be able to spend money to express their ideas during an election campaign. 
   When do we want to do it? They say just accept certain guidelines for 6 months prior to the election. When do we want to speak out, if it isn't when people are getting ready to vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000306</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I believe all in government in Washington, DC, and in every State, need to ask ourselves: Do our legislative acts, the public policies that we create, enhance or nurture our better instincts as a people? Are we conducting activities and passing laws that further benefit the better instincts of our Nation as a people? 
   A payment to somebody or some institution is an incentive to them, for whatever reason, that incentivizes and encourages that activity that got them the payment. 
   A tax, likewise, is a penalty. It discourages, it penalizes, it hurts. It sanctions certain kinds of behavior. That is so basic as to be without dispute. Frankly, our Founding Fathers knew this. 
   Professor Sindell, at Harvard, has written a book. I have not read the book, but I read the article, I believe in the Atlantic Monthly, about how in the first 150 years of our Nation's history, if you look at the debate that occurred in Congress, the Senate and the House, they were constantly debating what to sign and what to veto and what bills to support; they were always debating this principle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000306</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, is this going to make people better? Is it going to encourage their best instincts or will it encourage poor instincts? Will it encourage bad behavior? If they vote for or against bills on that basis, will it make us better people? That is an important issue. We ought to think about it. 
   We encourage a lot of activities in America through our tax policies. We encourage people to give to charitable institutions, churches, and schools by making those contributions tax deductible. 
   We help families raise their children by providing a deduction or a child tax credit, which we passed a few years ago. 
   We encourage savings by making the interest on individual retirement accounts tax free. 
   I have introduced a bill to make the interest that accrues on savings for prepaid college tuition plans tax free because we ought to encourage saving for education and have families and children invest in their education. 
   In many States--Kentucky, for example--the average contribution to those plans is $47 per month. They are middle-income people who care about their children's education. They are saving for their children's education, and we are taxing them on the interest that accrues on that savings for college education. 
   In my view, that is bad public policy. We discourage and penalize other activities we feel we can do without but we do not want to prohibit entirely. We tax cigarettes at a very high rate. We know that tobacco is bad for our health. It is not a good thing to do, and we have pretty high taxes, higher taxes every year it seems, and rightly so. 
   We tax gasoline. We can talk about the cost of gasoline. Last year in Alabama, gasoline was under $1 a gallon in a lot of places. Forty percent of the cost of that gallon of gasoline was State and Federal tax because we do not want people to use more than they need, we want to keep supplies strong. We do not want to import anymore than we have to, and we want to reduce pollution. 
   There are other taxes and penalties on people who pollute. That is one of the policies. 
   We have higher taxes on alcohol than we do a lot of other products. 
   We do not tax, for example, prescription drugs--most States do not. There is sales tax on all kinds of products that are sold in our grocery stores, but we do not tax prescription drugs because we know people need those drugs, and we do not want to penalize that. 
   Another thing we tax which I must add to that list is marriage. We are taxing and penalizing marriage to an extraordinary degree. 
   At church Sunday in Alabama--it was a pleasure to get back home--my minister told a story about an old man who had never been to town. His grandchildren said: Grandpa, you need to go to town. He finally agreed. He had never seen a zoo, so they wanted to take him to a zoo. They took him to a zoo, and he came upon a giraffe. He stood there and just looked at that giraffe. He walked around that giraffe, he studied that giraffe, and he spent 2 hours looking at that giraffe. He finally said: I still don't believe it. 
   We are at that point with the marriage penalty. Some people do not believe it is happening, that we are taxing marriage. It is very real. Talk to young people all over America today and ask them about what is going to happen to their taxes when two of them, particularly if both are working, are married. It costs them a lot of money. 
   We have to end this. We need to end this tax penalty. The President said he was for it. The proposal he made in his State of the Union Address and subsequently is insignificant in meeting that 
   challenge, but it is an admission that he believes there is a problem. 
   Let's look at it. Soon we are going to be seeing legislation in this body to deal with it. I hope we will study it carefully and end this governmental policy of penalizing and discouraging marriage. That is wrong. We need to encourage marriage. We do not need to penalize singleness, but they ought not have a financial incentive to remain single. We should not have public policy that favors singleness over marriage. We should have a fair policy that does not favor one over the other. 
   I have a young staff member who married recently. He had been dating his fiancee for over four years and they finally married. He tells me they will pay over $1,000 a year more having married. They married in July of last year, and they have to pay the marriage tax for the whole year. It is $1,000. That is roughly $100 a month out of their budget simply because they quit being engaged and were married. That is not right. That is wrongheaded. We do not need to continue this. 
   A good friend of mine, a fine person, unfortunately went through a divorce. She divorced in January a year ago. She told me that had they divorced in December, it would have saved them $1,600 on their tax bill. That is approximately $130 a month. They gave up that much because they did not divorce  earlier. Can you imagine a governmental public policy that provides a subsidy, an incentive, a bribe almost, to divorce? That is wrong. We do not need to do this any longer. I believe in this strongly. 
   This is a disadvantage too often to women. Women are just now breaking through the glass ceiling and making higher incomes. Many on the other side of the aisle and the President say: We do not want to deal with this problem of higher income people; we only want to have a marriage penalty elimination for the lowest income people. 
   What is wrong with two people working and doing modestly well today? Here is an example. Heather's income is $33,000. Her husband Brad's income is $37,000. Their total income is $70,000. It is the American dream, to do well and make those kinds of incomes. That is not rich. You cannot buy a house, buy a car, and educate your children well if you are not making in that range. It is harder and harder to do those things if you make less than that. Everybody knows that. Those are salaries one wants to see more and more Americans achieve. 
   Because they are married, they may take a standard deduction of $7,100, as well as two personal exemptions of $2,700. This leaves them with a taxable income of $57,500. If they were cohabitating, living outside marriage, Heather and Brad could each take a standard deduction of $4,200. Heather's taxable income would be $26,000; Brad's would be $30,000. Their combined taxable income would be $56,000. Because they are married, Heather and Brad must pay $1,400 more than if they were cohabitating. To them, it means approximately a $40-a-month charge. 
   That is a policy we should end. I believe this Congress is committed to it. 
   We are going to continue to proceed to work through the fine details of all these tax regulations and the thousands and thousands of tax pages to make sure we are doing it right and fair. But I do not think a couple making $80,000 or $90,000 or $100,000 ought to be denied equity. Why should they be taxed more than two single individuals making $100,000 collectively? They do not have to pay the extra taxes. 
   We are dealing with an issue whose time has come. The marriage penalty must end. We are not against singleness. I do not think there should be any battle between people who are single, who think it is some sort of tax advantage, and those who are married. We do not believe there should be any tax advantage. We are simply trying to level the playing field. This is a move toward equity and fairness at its basic level. It is a move to encourage good public policy, good activities, such as marriage and raising a family, and not taxing them. It sets a goal for us that we ought to pursue. 
   We ought to quit discouraging marriage, quit taxing and penalizing it, and allow people to make their choices in this country as they choose without having the tax man sticking his nose in their financial and personal matters. 
   I thank the Chair for this time. I am glad to see the Senator from Wyoming here. I appreciate his leadership. I know the Presiding Officer has been a champion in eliminating a lot of inequities in the Tax Code. I thank him for his leadership in that regard. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from California and appreciate being able to work together with the Senator on this  important piece of legislation and with the others who are cosponsoring it. 
   I think this Senate will come together, both sides of the aisle. The time has come. We know social promotion, the concept of moving kids along when we have failed to make sure they have learned the basics of the course level in which they should be operating, is the wrong thing to do. I believe that very strongly. I think the American people understand it and care about it. 
   We need to identify, at the earliest possible time, children who are falling behind. If we do not have a core curriculum, if we do not have standards, and we cover up or we deny what is happening when we know students are not getting the required amount of knowledge in school, it is time to confront this. 
   In some ways we are utilizing that psychiatric principle called ``enabling.'' We are enabling bad behavior to successfully continue unacceptable behavior, unacceptable performance by a school system, unacceptable performance by students. 
   It is time to confront that, not because we want to be mean or harsh but because we love these children. We care about the children. If we love them and if we care about them, we will set reasonable and tough standards; we will insist they adhere to them. When we find out they are not consistently adhering to them, we find ways to get them to the level they need. 
   Maybe their parents need to be more involved. Some say: I didn't know Billy was that far behind. 
   If we end social promotion, they will know; if there is testing, they will know. Maybe they need a member of the family to help with the homework. Maybe a tutor would be appropriate. Something has to be done. The school systems are going to have to participate better, also. 
   We had an incident in Alabama not long ago where a former all-pro football player could not pay his child support and could not get a job. He said the reason he couldn't get a job was because he couldn't read and write. 
   Such a sad statement. Too often in America we are passing kids along who have not learned how to read and write effectively. They are not going to be able to perform effectively in the commercial sector, and they are not going to be able to care for their families effectively. 
   Alabama has adopted one of the toughest programs in the Nation. The Fordham Foundation says it is the toughest. They have tested the 4th, 8th and 11th grades. We will do that this year. We want to know at what level the children are operating. A 60-person commission is undertaking right now a detailed study on how to implement the end of social promotion. It is something that ought to be done around this country. We want our education system in Alabama to be better. I want it to be better all over America. I know we can do that. 
   There are a number of things we have to recognize when we ask: Is this really a problem; do we need to confront this? 
   American 12th graders rank 19th out of 21 industrial nations in mathematics achievement and 16th out of 21 nations in science. Our advanced physics students rank dead last. 
   Since 1983, 10 million Americans have reached the 12th grade without having learned to read at a basic level. Over 20 million have reached their senior year unable to do basic math. Almost 25 million have reached the 12th grade not knowing the essentials of U.S. history. 
   In 1992, a Department of Education survey found between 21 and 23 percent--more than 1 out of 5--or 40 million of the 191 million adults in this country were in the bottom 5th of literacy assessment proficiency categories. 
   We are saying we do care about education. That is not always reflected in how much money we spend. I hope we can continue to spend more. We increased the budget this year substantially over last year, and we will increase the education budget next year. 
   Kansas City brought their per pupil spending up to $11,700 and brought down the student teacher ratio to 13-1 without seeing any increase in test scores. 
   What is it that we are about? I think children respond to challenges. I think children reach up to the level they are asked to reach, that they are expected to reach. If we set reasonable standards and we challenge students to meet them, and the teachers are motivated to make sure the children reach certain standards, and parents get engaged because they know what the tests are going to be like and they want to be sure their children meet those standards, this will increase learning more in this country than any other thing we can do. 
   I am pleased to support this legislation with the Senator from California. I think it will have broad support in this body. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I object. I don't believe it is time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. He has the floor. He can use his time or not. I believe the Senator from Minnesota can use his time or not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will speak in opposition to the second-degree amendment proposed by the Senator from Minnesota. 
   First and foremost, as everybody knows who has been participating in this debate and can understand how the system works, the second-degree amendment, as proposed, would gut Senator FEINSTEIN's and my first-degree amendment. It would simply make it impossible to enforce. Of course, that is what the Senator from Minnesota desires. He is not for testing or accountability or the end of social promotion. 
   I respect that position. But his President, the President of the United States, in his State of the Union Address, to a cheer from the audience, called for an end of social promotion. It is something whose time has come and gone. It is time to care about children and to care about the billions of dollars we are spending on education. And we are going to spend more next year than we did this year. But if we care about what is happening with it, we have to ask if there is some accountability. We can't simply allow children to go on and on, be promoted, and end up being an all-pro football player who can't read and write. That is happening in America, to a lesser degree mostly, but to a sad degree too often throughout this country. We are not making sure children are meeting minimum standards. When we do so, problems arise. They have to be confronted. 
   Right now, we are denying the problem. We are enabling an inefficient system to continue. We refuse to do what is required to point out to everybody who is not meeting minimum standards. Once we find that out, then we can all get together and do something to fix it. There is plenty of money in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act--soon to be passed, I hope--that will provide a continual flow of money for disadvantaged schools throughout America, so we can improve that system. 
   This amendment is nothing more than a gutting and an elimination and a wiping out of the total intent of the Feinstein-Sessions amendment. It will not allow an end to social promotion in America. Our amendment will. But it will allow the States to decide how to do it. If the States decide to have different standards for children who have difficulties, or disadvantaged or special education kids, they can do so. We are not saying how they ought to do it. But if we care about those children, we have to know, ourselves, whether or not they are learning. If they are not learning, we have to confront that fact. We can't enable this unacceptable behavior to continue. Some of it is on the part of the kids, some of it is on the part of their parents, and some of it may be a poor school. We have to end that. 
   We care about our children. I think Senator FEINSTEIN has made it clear that she cares about them. I do. I want to see the system improved. I am convinced that we must move to eliminate the passing along of kids who are not meeting the most basic of standards. That is why I will oppose the Senator's second-degree amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will use 2 minutes and then yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the second-degree amendment provision of this section--that is, the end of social promotion--shall not apply to any child who is not afforded by the State educational agency an opportunity to learn the material necessary. I don't know what that means. That can mean almost anything to anyone. 
   One of the requirement that has to be in the amendment or this bill does not apply is that a child has the opportunity to receive high-quality early childhood education. What does that mean? It means anything anybody says it does. 
   The President of the United States says it is time to end social promotion. The overwhelming majority of American people believe so. Certainly the people on this side of the aisle believe so. I believe a majority on that side of the aisle believe so. 
   Let's not go with some meddling second-degree amendment that will, in effect, undermine the import of the amendment Senator FEINSTEIN has offered. Let's not do that. Let's send a clear message that we care about children and we want to confront them at an early age and find out whether or not they are meeting basic standards. If they are not, let's start helping them. We are not going to put them in jail if they are not meeting standards. We ought to set about to find out who is not meeting those standards and start helping them. That is what it is all about. That is what we need to do. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I conclude by explaining why this amendment is so impractical. It says children have to have multiple opportunities for parental involvement. 
   I don't know what that means. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator does not define it in the statute. They won't know what the Senator said on the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I reclaim my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. What is the balance of my time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I appreciate the concern of the Senator from Minnesota, but I say to the Senator, parents would get a lawyer and sue: You can't hold my child back; you didn't call me enough times. 
   The amendment doesn't say how many times. 
   Or my child didn't have an opportunity to receive a high-quality early childhood education. 
   Well, you had kindergarten; that was not enough. 
   This amendment does not say what it is. It will turn it into a conglomeration of things that are not healthy. 
   I note, as Senator FEINSTEIN from California so eloquently 
   said, we are not saying what the standards are. The States can set standards that require parental involvement. I hope they do. I hope they do a lot of things that are not mentioned by the Senator from Minnesota in setting a fair, objective standard for testing. 
   However, we do need some objective standards for testing. If we do so--as Chicago has found, as California will be moving toward, as Alabama will move very soon to accountability and the end of social promotion--we will find that students are learning more because they are challenged. There is an incentive there. Parents are going to know certain standards must be met. Teachers and principals will know it. The children will know it. They will respond and meet the challenges. 
   We will end this slide in which we spend more and more money and get less and less productivity. 
   From 1960 to 1990, we tripled the amount of money spent on education in America. It went up every single year. But SAT scores declined 73 points. 
   In Kansas City, they spent $11,700 per pupil. They raised education figures consistently to reach this very high level; they had a teacher-pupil ratio of 13-1, without raising test scores for the kids. 
   We have to challenge children because we care about them. We care about America. We cannot continue to move children through the system when they do not know how to read and write and perform effectively in this society of which we are a part. I wish we could do it kindly, without having to tell people: Sorry, you didn't meet the standards; you have to take this course over again. 
   Oftentimes that is what we have to do. It is the way life is on the football field or in a military unit. You have to meet certain standards. We are in a world that demands first rate competition. If we are not prepared, we will lose out. I am concerned about it. All of America is concerned. I think we can make progress toward that goal. 
   I believe we should reject this amendment to the underlying amendment proposed by Senator FEINSTEIN and myself. With that, we can send a message to America that we will have  some accountability, that we will encourage children to improve. When we recognize that large numbers of students are not meeting those standards, we can redirect resources to find out exactly what that problem is and rectify it. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the time has come to end social promotion. The Feinstein-Sessions amendment does that. It does it in a way that allows the States to set the standards they believe are appropriate for each level of achievement. 
   We are pouring more and more money every year into education. If we care about those children, if we really are concerned about children, we will find out if they are meeting at least minimum academic standards. If they are not, we will be intervening, in a failing system, and will force the system to deal with them and help them through the process. It gives the States complete freedom to set these standards. 
   President Clinton supported this in the State of the Union message. The people of this country overwhelmingly support it. Over 10 States have already gone to it. My State of Alabama is in the process of going to it. The Republican Party has favored it. Senators FEINSTEIN, LIEBERMAN and BYRD are cosponsors of this amendment. It is time for us to pass it. 
   But we must not pass the Wellstone amendment. It will eliminate the ability to make this system work effectively. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on May 6-8, 2000 more than 1200 students from across the United States will be in Washington, D.C. to compete in the national finals of the ``We the People ..... The Citizen and the Constitution'' program. I am proud to announce that a class from Sparkman High School from the city of Harvest will represent my home state of Alabama in this national event. These young scholars have worked diligently to reach the national finals and through their experience have gained a deep knowledge and understanding of the fundamental principles and values of our constitutional democracy. 
   The ``We the People ..... The Citizen and the Constitution'' program is the most extensive educational program in the country developed specifically to educate young people about the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. The three-day national competition is modeled after hearings in the United States Congress. These hearings consist of oral presentations by high school students before a panel of adult judges. The students testify as constitutional experts before a congressional committee, that is, the panel of judges representing various regions of the country and a variety of appropriate professional fields. The student testimony is followed by a period of questioning during which the judges probe students for their depth of understanding and ability to apply their constitutional knowledge. Columnist David Broder described the national finals as ``the place to have your faith in the younger generation restored.'' 
   The student team from Sparkman High School is currently conducting research and preparing for the upcoming national competition in Washington, DC. I am extremely proud of the students and teacher and wish them the best of luck at ``We the People'' national finals. I look forward to greeting them when they visit Capitol Hill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to join in support of this amendment. I think it is a brilliant idea and something that is overdue. 
   I think Senator HATCH has commented quite clearly why the present state of the law is ineffective to assist teachers who are working steadily and giving of themselves sacrificially for their classrooms and why the current tax law benefits them not very much, or almost none at all. I taught one year. I recall that we had expensive readers paid for by the government. I tried to get the disadvantaged children in the classroom to read those readers. They hated it. But there are a bunch of books there on the walls--Daniel Boone, Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew, and those kinds of books. I noticed that if I could get them to read those books, they liked it. Some of them read 30, 40, 50, or 60 books. When I went to the used bookstores, or places such as that, I would pick up books on my own and bring them back to the classroom because there was a lot of satisfaction in seeing those children actually enjoying reading a story. 
   I think sometimes we need to review the quality of the material we are asking our children to read. It may be scientifically sound, but most of it is boring. They don't like it; it is work to them. If you can make reading a pleasure, I think it helps. 
   My personal experience with that indicates to me we ought to encourage teachers to not hesitate. A teacher may bring them to Washington, and they may see prints of historical events or artwork they want to buy right then. The school board isn't going to be available to approve that. They know it will fit right within their classroom and the course they will be studying. 
   They invest their own money in that. I think that ought to be encouraged. 
   My wife taught for a number of years in public schools. She was continually buying things for her bulletin board to share with the elementary classes and to help her teach the lessons she had for that class. 
   There is no way some bureaucrat in Washington or even some school board member or principal is going to be available at the right time to approve that expenditure for a teacher. 
   We do not appreciate our teachers enough. If you haven't been in a classroom to know how hard it is, how frustrating it can be, and how burdensome the regulations are, adding the fact that the days are long and children may not be so well disposed to behave on a given day, you can't know what it is to be a teacher. 
   One of the most frustrating aspects is the little things teachers need that they cannot get unless they pay for them out of their own pocket. They do that continuously. But it is a source of irritation to them. They sense we are not supporting them fully in their mission. 
   I think this is a great amendment, I say to Senator COLLINS and Senator KYL. I think it is right on point. I could not be more pleased with it. I would like to be added as a cosponsor to it. I think it will help us in the classroom. The most important point in the education process is what occurs in a classroom, that magic moment when a teacher and child can come together and learning occurs. This will help enhance that. I am pleased to support the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to thank the Senator from Georgia for his leadership and dedication to education reform. I also appreciate the comments of the Senator from Rhode Island. Really, we are sort of talking about two different games. Senator REED is talking about tennis and we are talking about baseball. We have, in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, of which I am a member, a dedicated effort ongoing right now to reauthorize for 5 years the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. It contains issues dealing with teachers and poverty and disadvantaged children and how to get money down to the teachers and the people who know our children's names. That will come up later this spring, or as soon as we can possibly get it out. ESEA is where most of the issues that the Senator from Rhode Island and his Democratic colleagues have raised should and will be dealt with. 
   I have been in probably 15 schools in Alabama since the first of this year, and I am not hearing people say they want the Federal Government to take control. Rhode Island is one of the more wealthy States in the Union, they might want school buildings, but in Alabama, they are not telling me that. I have met with teachers, principals, and school board members, the head of the teachers union, and the State Superintendent of Education, talking to them about what the Federal Government can do to improve learning. What we are here for and what we want to do is facilitate children learning. And for the record, that only occurs in the classroom, where a teacher and a child come together at that magic moment when good things happen. It doesn't happen in Washington, DC, or with bureaucracies and policies like that. 
   Senator WELLSTONE wants to spend it on early childhood. The Senator from Rhode Island wants new teachers. I might add, that we did hire 100,000 new teachers last year. Twenty-five percent of that money can be used for professional development of teachers. This Congress spent about $300 million to $500 million more on education last year than the President asked for and more than the Democratic leadership asked for in their budget. So we are not chintzy on education. The question is, what do we do? 
   The bill in front of us deals with some inequities and problems with the tax code which prevents people from going on and paying for their education. Everybody has to do that, whether it is in public schools or private schools. For example, a big part of this legislation is a bill, S.13, which I offered; called the ``CLASS Act.'' That act is the Collegiate Learning Students Savings Act. What we found was that 39 States in this country right now--and probably 42 or more by the end of this year--have programs to encourage prepaid tuition savings. People would prepay tuition for higher education; they set aside the money today for tuition tomorrow. 
   What we found out is that although the States make the interest on those contributions tax free, the accumulation of that money in those accounts is still taxed by the Federal Government when it is withdrawn. Now, what is wrong with that? I say that is not good public policy. It is not good public policy at its most basic level because what we are doing is taxing good behavior. We are taxing people who do the right thing and go about saving for higher education. At the same time, this Congress over the last number of years has enhanced steadily the subsidies we give to people who borrow money to go to college. There are a lot of subsidies--interest deferments and other tax changes--that encourage people to borrow. In the last decade, we have had more debt incurred for college expenses than we did in the previous three decades.  
   Good public policy ought to say that if you care enough to set aside money on a regular basis to pay for your child's education, the tax man ought not to penalize you for it. As Senator COVERDELL 
   himself said earlier, we are getting such leverage from this money. We will probably save, in my opinion, more on the back end by having less loans that we have to pay and subsidize by this Congress than we would by allowing the tax deduction to begin with. 
   I want to share some things about this idea that these tax changes are just for the rich. Of course, you never know how they define rich. You may have a man and a woman who are both working hard and are making $75,000, $80,000, and some intend to call them rich. Those are people doing what we hope every American is doing--working hard, making $30,000, $40,000, $50,000 a year, and we burden them consistently with taxes. They have to pay, pay, pay. The breaks always seem to go for somebody else because people would say they are rich. I don't agree with that. 
   Let's look at the numbers we have on who is taking advantage of prepaid tuition plans. We have quite a track record around the country of those. It is middle-income families that are taking advantage of these plans, not the rich. In Florida, 71 percent of the participating families in the Florida prepaid college program have annual incomes of under $50,000, and 25 percent have incomes of less than $30,000. They are steadily putting money aside every year, every month, every week to help pay their children's education--a dream they have. Maybe they didn't get an education. My parents didn't get to go to college. They did everything they could to see that I could go to college. They didn't have a lot of the things that you have today that would help. 
   Mr. President, 72 percent of the tuition contracts in the Alaska Advance College Tuition Payment Plan--a similar plan--have been purchased by families with incomes of less than $47,500; 81 percent of the contracts in Wyoming's plan have been purchased by families with annual incomes of less than $34,000; 62 percent of the contracts in the Pennsylvania plan have been purchased by families with annual incomes of less than $35,000; 36 percent of the participating families in the Texas Tomorrow Fund Program have annual incomes of less than $50,000. The average monthly contribution to a family's college savings account during 1995 in Kentucky was $43 a month. Just $43 a month. 
   According to the Joint Tax Committee's score, the cost of this bill is $174 million over 5 years. That is all it costs. But I promise you that it will increase savings. In fact, not too long ago, I saw an article in one of these financial advisory magazines that wondered whether or not they considered it sort of a wash, whether it was a good investment to put your money in a college savings plan if they are going to tax the interest on it. I can see why this would be an inducement to make absolutely clear that it is a smart investment to invest in savings accounts while your children are young. 
   Mr. President, I believe in education. I taught in a public school for one year. I got to do something easy after that, I went to law school. Anybody who hasn't taught doesn't know how difficult it is. My wife taught for a number of years in public schools. I have been there when she came home at night in tears over the frustrations and difficulties of teaching. Teachers care about their kids. It is tough in those classrooms day after day. It is frustrating. So often what I am hearing when I talk to teachers is that Federal regulations are making their lives more difficult than they would be otherwise. They are telling me that if you would give us freedom to use some of the money you are giving, we could do more with it. You don't know in Washington. What do we know in Washington? 
   We can't write a law that can appropriately provide in a sensible way precisely what is needed in schools that are different--schools in the Northwest, schools in the big cities, schools in the small towns. Each State has different systems of education. Some are desperate for new teachers. Some need more buildings. Some need more computers. The Senator from Minnesota said Minnesota didn't have textbooks. Minnesota ought to have textbooks. They have enough money to pay for textbooks. Alabama has textbooks. 
   Another thing we need to know and remember very clearly--I think it is so important--is we need to do everything we can in this Congress to improve learning. We know, despite the fact we are second only I believe to Israel in per capita spending on education, that our test scores are not good. We finished 19th out of 21 industrial nations in math and science test scores, and 21 out of 21 for physics test scores. Somehow something is not working in our educational programs. 
   I believe the answer to it--from my travels and from talking to teachers and close friends of mine who are teachers--is that we need to focus our attention on the individual schools, even down to the individual classrooms because that is where learning occurs. We need to empower the people who know our children's names. The Federal Government simply does not have the clout to tell schools how to run their systems. In case many of you may not know, the Federal Government provides only 6 percent of the cost of education in America. Historically, education has always been a State and local enterprise. We have local school boards. We have local superintendents. We have principals who participate in the civic clubs of our community, who know our parents, teachers who know our parents, and PTA associations. Education is local. 
   One of the best speeches I have ever heard on this floor is the one Senator BYRD from West Virginia shared about the one-room schoolhouse he went to. I didn't go to a one-room school. But it was a country school. They brought water from the spring in a bucket and we drank from a single dipper. It seems he has done rather well. There is not a more educated person in this Senate than Senator BYRD. There is little doubt about that. 
   I believe we need to look at what we are doing. What is this legislation about? This is not a cure-all to educational problems. This is simply a proposal to allow tax policy to encourage people to save for education. What is wrong with that? The cost of it is infinitesimally small compared to what we are spending in this Congress on education. It is minute. But it would increase substantially parental involvement in making money available to educate children according to the wishes of the parent. It is a good idea, I believe, and a healthy idea. 
   I wish to say again how much I appreciate Senator COVERDELL's leadership with this effort. Senator ROTH, who chairs the Finance Committee, is committed to improving education, Senator BOB GRAHAM from Florida, who has been a steadfast supporter of making prepaid tuition plans tax-free, and my good friend Congressman JOE SCARBOROUGH of Florida who has sponsored the House companion to the CLASS Act. I think this is a solid first step toward encouraging people and affirming people to care enough to save for the education of their children. Who can be against that? 
   I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to join the occupant of the chair on his remarks in support of this legislation, which is far too long overdue and which has cost the taxpayers money because your efforts to see it passed have been frustrated. 
   The leadership you, and others have given to this bill has made a compelling case for its passage. I believe we ought to move forward with it, and hopefully we will this time. 
   I do not agree with some who say this is not an important piece of environmental legislation. It clearly is. We have nuclear waste all over this country in nuclear facilities in less than ideal conditions. That waste can be moved to an ideal location approved by the Federal Government. This is a bill which would help make that happen and clean up the environment. 
   I would like to share some thoughts. I come at this with a little bit of a different view, as I am sure others do. I don't speak for anybody else, and certainly not the chairman who has advocated this legislation so ably. I would like to share a personal insight into where I am coming from with regard to this legislation. 
   During his State of the Union Address, President Clinton remarked: 
   ``The greatest environmental challenge of the new century is global warming. The scientists tell us that the 1990s were the hottest decade of the entire millennium. If we fail to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases''--that comes from burning fossil fuel--``deadly heat waves and droughts will become more frequent, coastal areas will flood, and economies will be disrupted. That is going to happen, unless we act.'' 
   But just because the President declared it so does not necessarily make it so. Science surrounding climate change is very complex. In fact, NASA has found through satellite data that the upper atmosphere has not warmed at all over the last 20 years. But, regardless of that, we don't know what is happening out there. Change is always about. 
   The notion that our coastlines will flood or that heat waves will plague the world is a view that is shared by a lot of radical environmentalists, non-growth people in this country and around the world. Some scientists have actually studied the matter, however, and concluded that there are many beneficial changes that occur when carbon dioxide levels increase. If there is more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, plants grow better. They suck in carbon dioxide and emit oxygen in the process of life that all plants go through. 
   Regardless of who is right and the status of this debate, all of us should look forward to working together in developing a plan to reduce air pollution. In doing so, we will at the same time reduce these greenhouse gases, many of which are not damaging to our health. But we will do that anytime we reduce pollution, as a general rule. 
   The largest component of greenhouse gases, of course, is carbon dioxide, CO  
   2, which is not an unhealthy gas. President Clinton and Vice President GORE have already tried to commit our country, through the Kyoto global warming treaty, to an agreement which would call on the United States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 7 percent below the 1990 level by the year 2002. That was a goal of Kyoto. The Vice President was adamant about committing the United States to reducing emissions 7 percent below 1990 levels by 2012, just 12 years from now. And the United States already produces greenhouse gas emissions that are 8 percent over 1990 levels. 
   The Energy Information Administration predicts that the United States, however, will need about a 30-percent increase in electricity by the year 2015. We are talking about reducing greenhouse gases in the next 12 years by 15 percent from current levels during a  time when we need a 30-percent increase in power. It is going to be very difficult to do under any circumstances. 
   But at the same time we are faced with these difficult choices, this administration has surprisingly and openly opposed 
   the use and continued development of the only options we have to realistically meet the emissions reduction goals--nuclear power and natural gas. 
   Nuclear power currently provides over 20 percent of the electric power in this country. Given the state of energy technology today, a critical component of our emissions reductions plan should be the safe use of nuclear power. We must maintain this energy source, perhaps making it a larger source of our energy mix, and not dismiss its future use outright by opposing this critical legislation. 
   As an example of the environmentally friendly capacity of nuclear power, consider this: Between 1973 and 1997, nuclear power generation avoided the emission of 82.2 million tons of sulfur dioxide, and more than 37 million tons of nitrogen oxide, which would have been released if that electricity had been produced by fossil fuel plants. In 1997 alone, emissions of sulfur dioxide in 1 year would have been about 5 million tons higher, and emissions of nitrogen oxide would have been 2.4 million tons higher had fossil generation plants replaced this nuclear generation. In addition, literally billions of tons of carbon and millions of tons of methane emissions--believed to be the most significant greenhouse gas--could have been avoided by the sensible use of nuclear power in this country. 
   Even though we are still fighting health problems associated with pollution, a problem that is measurable and real, the safe use of nuclear power in this country and elsewhere has helped all of us to breathe easier. In fact, there has not been a single incident in this country of a person being significantly injured or losing their life at a nuclear power plant in the entire history of US nuclear power production. That wouldn't have been true at plants burning coal. How many coal trucks have had wrecks and killed people? How many coal miners have been injured or killed? How many people have been killed in moving gas through pipelines and that kind of thing? Nuclear power has actually been much safer than those options. 
   Indeed, other countries are far ahead of us. In France, 76 percent of their power is nuclear. And soon, 50 percent of the power in Japan will be generated by nuclear plants. Nuclear powerplants provided some 16 percent of the world's energy production in 1998. Yet the United States hasn't proposed to build a new plant in over 23 years. One reason is the cost is rising and is being driven up by our inability to dispose of even small amounts of nuclear waste. 
   On November 8, 1997, just after signing the Kyoto greenhouse gas treaty, Vice President Gore stated:  
   There are other parts of the Earth's ecological systems that are also threatened by the increasingly harsh impact of thoughtless behavior: The poisoning of too many places where people--especially poor people--live, and the deaths of too many children--especially poor children--from polluted water and dirty air.  
   Perhaps the Vice President should heed his own rhetoric and stop the thoughtless behavior put forth by his own administration that has discouraged both the use of nuclear power and the production of our cleanest fossil fuel--natural gas. 
   On September 3, 1999, Vice President GORE pledged to stop the new leasing of oil and gas sites offshore. 
   It is really a stunning thing. We are producing natural gas mainly in the Gulf of Mexico at unprecedented rates. And we have the opportunity, through recent discoveries there, to produce even more. Producing more natural gas in this country will reduce our burden on coal and it will reduce our burden on oil, which is more polluting. It will reduce our trade imbalance and debt to foreign producers in the Middle East where we are shifting huge amounts of our wealth. 
   Vice President GORE said we are going to stop natural gas production. He went on to state his intention to shut down even existing gas wells. Near my home in Mobile Bay, I fished around the oil and gas rigs there. It is some of the cleanest water you can find. We are having no problems with those wells. 
   The Vice President said:  
   If elected President, I will take steps to prevent any drilling on the older leases that were granted during previous administrations .....  
   He is even committing to shut down current natural gas wells that are producing the cleanest form of fossil fuel energy we have today. 
   These comments and the policies of this administration on pollution and the environment just don't mesh. There simply is no way to meet our pollution reduction goals while simultaneously stopping the production of clean natural gas and blocking the development of a healthy nuclear power industry in this country. 
   The Senator from Idaho earlier said we have no energy policy in this country. We are drifting from poll to poll. Well I think he may be right. 
   Some say wind, solar, and biomass technologies are the way to meet our air pollution goals. I know of some good research projects. One in my home State uses switch grass and coal to help produce electricity. It is an environmentally friendly project and I hope it will be successful. While a lot of progress has been made in this area, we must face the reality that these new technologies are good steps--but they are small steps; they simply cannot be relied upon to meet our energy needs over the next 40 to 50 years. 
   Every day, new ideas, new procedures, and new techniques cut fuel use, allowing citizens to get energy with less pollution. Refrigerators today are using less than half the electricity they did 15 or 20 years ago. That is good progress. The fact is, electricity consumption is up in the last 8 years despite these huge increases in efficiency. World demand also will rise. 
   The theory of global warming does not hinge solely on pollution in the United States. The theory suggests that global air emissions are creating, so the theory goes, a greenhouse effect that might raise the temperature around the world. I know people have become absolutely convinced this is a scientific fact; my staff and I have been doing research and I am not yet convinced. Again I repeat: NASA has monitored the temperature of the upper atmosphere for over 20 years using satellites, and they find the upper atmosphere has not warmed. Originally, the greenhouse gas theorists believed that this part of the atmosphere would be where the warming would first occur. It has not. 
   I point out that even members of President Clinton's own administration have recognized that nuclear power must play a large part in our energy mix. In March of 1999, Ambassador John Ritch, President Clinton's appointed Ambassador to the North Atlantic Assembly, an assembly of parliamentarians to the North Atlantic countries, commented on this issue we are debating today. He said:  
   The reality is that, of all energy forms capable of meeting the world's expanding needs, nuclear power yields the least and most easily managed waste.  
   In October of 1998, Under Secretary of State Stuart Eizenstat remarked:  
   I believe very firmly that nuclear [power] has to be a significant part of our energy future and a large part of the Western world if we are going to meet these emission reduction targets. Those who think we can accomplish these goals without a significant nuclear industry are simply mistaken.  
   However, we cannot have this industry if we cannot dispose of the waste. 
   By passing sensible nuclear waste legislation, we have the greatest opportunity to reduce air pollution since the passage of the Clean Air Act. Nuclear power produces virtually no air emissions and generates an extremely small amount of solid waste. In fact, relative to the amount of power generated per ton of waste produced, nuclear power rates among the cleanest of all energy technologies. 
   My judgment, which has been formed over time, is that we have to develop policies which will encourage the future development of nuclear power in this country--not build roadblocks to its use. 
   How can we continue to maintain 20-percent power production from nuclear plants if these plants are now going to reach an age where they will have to be closed down? What will we do? The only choice is to burn fossil fuel if we don't use nuclear power. 
   Currently, there are tons of spent nuclear fuel stored at 71 sites in 34 States around this country. Most of the spent  fuel is stored onsite at nuclear plants. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 established a nuclear waste storage fund and required the Department of Energy to begin accepting nuclear waste from these plants all over the country by 1998. The fund was paid for by a user fee imposed on customers of electricity--that is, American citizens. That is, in effect, a tax on American citizens that has been paid for quite some time to store this nuclear waste. 
   To date, the fund has grown to over $15 billion, as the chairman has pointed out. Not a single ton of spent nuclear fuel has been accepted by the Department of Energy. That is an outrage. As a result of the Department's failure to meet the 1998 deadline, the Department is currently facing multiple lawsuits which could cost the Federal Government--and taxpayers--tens of billions of dollars for their failure to produce a safe storage spot and make it available. 
   The Department of Energy has spent over $4 billion to study the safety and environmental impact of storing spent nuclear fuel at Yucca Mountain site. That is $4 billion. The general fund budget of the State of Alabama, with 4 million citizens, is $1 billion. Four billion is a lot of money that has been spent. 
   The Department's findings indicate that Yucca Mountain is ideally suited for the long-term storage of nuclear power. 
   Despite the rhetoric put forth by those who oppose this bill, the fact is, Yucca Mountain is located in the heart of a remote Nevada nuclear test range where nearly 1,000 nuclear devices have been detonated and tested over the years during the cold war. It is a desert. It is not located near any population center and would pose no threat to the surrounding areas. 
   The safe long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel--which has no potential to blow up--is a problem we can and should have solved. By passing S. 1287, we will set in motion a well-researched plan to safely solve this problem once and for all and allow America to move forward in meeting our goals: Cleaning up the environment of nuclear waste and reducing air pollution by continuing to allow the nuclear industry to function. 
   The Clinton-Gore administration has suggested it may veto this bill if it arrives on the President's desk. The effect of this announcement is to frustrate a $15 billion plan agreed to years ago. 
   To say ``no'' to nuclear power use in this country is to say ``no'' to our best chance to significantly reduce air pollution and save the environment. A vote against this bill is a vote against the environment, a vote against common sense and a vote against fiscal sanity. We have dawdled and delayed far too long. Now is the time to store this hazardous waste under a mountain, at an old nuclear test range in the Nevada desert, at Yucca Mountain. 
   I thank the chairman of this committee for his courageous, steadfast, and determined effort to bring this outrage to an end and to get this matter settled. 
   I appreciate his leadership, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, my good friend Senator REED and I have worked together for quite some time now to adopt a provision involving reaffirmations, amendment No. 2650. We have a few technical corrections to which we have agreed, and we have reached an agreement to make these technical corrections.  
   I send to the desk a modified amendment which includes the technical corrections. I ask unanimous consent that the original amendment No. 2650 be vitiated and that the modified amendment be accepted, substituted, and adopted in its place. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to address an issue that Senator REED and I have been working on for many months. We have sought to reform the process of reaffirmations, to fully inform debtors of the details and consequences of reaffirming debts, to prevent abuse of this process by dishonest debtors and creditors, and protect honest individuals who wish to enter a reaffirmation agreement. Senator REED and I have worked for months to reach this point, and we have tried to craft a balanced amendment that protects the interests of everyone involved. That amendment passed the Senate last year. At this point, Senator REED and I have agreed on a few technical changes, and identified one substantive issue that remains outstanding. The substantive issue concerns the time limit for reaffirmation agreements to be approved by the court. Current law provides 90 days, and Senator REED would prefer 50 days. Given the support for the underlying amendment, Senator REED and I were most concerned with making the technical changes to ensure that the agreement that was reached accurately represented the common intent and to reserve the timing issue for conference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I believe your concern is reasonable, and I will work with you to see that this issue is addressed in conference. I am confident that we can reach a consensus on the timing issue, and that all sides will be able to accept the change. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will briefly say in response to the comments made by the distinguished senior Senator from Massachusetts that this is a fair and balanced bill. It does a number of good things to help those who have financial difficulties. It closes loopholes and ends unfairness in provisions that are being abused and making a mockery out of legitimate bankruptcy law. 
   For example, children or those who are eligible to receive child support and alimony are raised to the highest possible level, even above attorney fees and trustee fees in bankruptcy. They are the highest possible level. If an individual owes a number of debts and one of those is for child support, the child support is to be paid first. 
   There is nothing in this bill that is harsh. Any American making below the median income level will fundamentally find their bankruptcy filing procedure under the needs-based rule has not changed. It is only for those who make above the median income that a question will be raised as to whether or not they can pay back some of their debts. 
   There are literally thousands of individuals in America today who owe limited debts, who may have incomes of $80,000, $90,000, or $200,000, and choose to file for bankruptcy. Under the current law, they can wipe out all their debts, even those owed to people much less wealthy than they, and not pay any debts. 
   Under this provision of law, if you have an income above the median income level, the bankruptcy court may conclude you can pay some of your debts, and if you can, you are given 5 years to pay some of those debts to somebody from whom you have received a benefit or else you would not have a debt. 
   I thank Senator GRASSLEY for his work on this bill. I am troubled that anyone would say it is unfair and does not help make this system better. I yield the floor. 
   Mr. GRASSLEY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator FEINGOLD has again presented an amendment involving landlords and eviction cases. It is one of the biggest problems we have in the bankruptcy code. He has made some progress from his original amendment, but it still basically makes a Federal case out of eviction proceedings. Under Senator FEINGOLD's amendment, when a lease has expired, tenants can go to bankruptcy court to delay and file motions and have hearings that can draw out the case even longer than the time that the Senator has suggested would normally occur. That ought to be done in State systems where eviction cases are traditionally litigated--not in Federal Bankruptcy court. 
   Every State has a procedure and remedies and rights for tenants being evicted. That is where those cases ought to be handled, not in bankruptcy court. We know that 3,886 people filed bankruptcy in Los Angeles County in 1996 simply for the purpose of defeating eviction. We have seen advertisements in newspapers saying, ``hire us as your bankruptcy lawyer and we can delay your eviction for 7 months.'' This is the kind of thing that is not healthy, the kind of thing that has disrupted and distorted bankruptcy law. I believe bankruptcy law upsets legitimate landlords, many of whom are retirees and people who have only a few apartments or a duplex that they manage, when they can't get a tenant out.  
   So this amendment that he proposes, in effect, continues the process of allowing the tenant to take his eviction case to bankruptcy court. This is what has been happening and what will continue to happen if the Senator's amendment is adopted. A tenant contests an eviction in State court, and as he moves toward the conclusion of that case, he then has his bankruptcy lawyer file bankruptcy. An automatic stay would occur even with this notice Senator FEINGOLD proposes, at least for 2 weeks. Then they would be eligible for a hearing in bankruptcy court on the certification that had been submitted, and then that would delay things. 
   After the landlord eventually wins, for example, in a case in which the lease has expired, the case still then has to go back to State court and has to be revived because it is at the bottom of the judge's docket. The landlord has to go back to the State court lawyer to proceed with it. I think that is a completely unworkable proposal. I do understand the Senator's concern. We ought to do all we can to help those who are homeless. We have many provisions for dealing with homeless people, but mandating private landlords to provide housing for people who do not have a valid lease is not the right approach, in my view. 
   Mr. President, with regard to the gun issue, I think we need to think clearly about what we are doing. We are talking about removing bankruptcy protection from two kinds of judgments: Judgments incurred by people who ``potentially'' violate the law near an abortion clinic and judgments incurred by firearms manufacturers or dealers when some third party breaks the law by using a firearm to injure another person. 
   Each of us has a special responsibility, I believe, to this Senate and our constitutional responsibilities to create a coherent, fair justice system for allowing citizens' debts to be discharged. That is what bankruptcy is. Every time someone declares bankruptcy, someone whom he or she justly owes is not paid--a store owner, a doctor, a bank, or whoever. 
   So most of us are here to achieve honest bankruptcy reform. These amendments, however, involving the abortion clinic exception and the gun manufacturers exception have all the earmarks of partisan injection of politics into the bankruptcy code and an attack on people who are unpopular, particularly groups or institutions that are unpopular with the political left. These political attacks come at the expense of the integrity and consistency of our bankruptcy system. We should not allow these kinds of attacks to happen. It is our duty to create a legal system for all Americans and not just to pursue special interest politics. 
   One Senator who proposed this amendment said, well, if it is political, it is popular. I do not believe it would be popular if we had a group of citizens and we explained exactly with regard to the abortion clinic or with regard to the gun manufacturers how they were being targeted specifically in ways that similar businesses and institutions were not being targeted and were not being given an exemption from bankruptcy. 
   I suggest that this is not a targeting of violence. These amendments are basically targeting political enemies. The amendments create an exception to the generally applicable bankruptcy protections for two specific classes: Pro-life activists who are overzealous and may violate Federal law, and firearms manufacturers that in general adhere to the law with great attention and, as a matter of fact, do what they are supposed to do and sell firearms according to Federal regulations. 
   Remember that by the established rule of law, any debt that arises from ``wilful or malicious'' conduct by any institution today is not dischargeable in bankruptcy. In other words, if you commit an action that is malicious or willful and you go into bankruptcy court, you can't wipe out that debt; you still have to pay it. 
   If we remove the general bankruptcy protection for court judgment against these targeted groups, why aren't we eliminating these protections for other types of debtors whose acts other people may not like in this country? If the goal were to stop violence and protect children from exposure to bad products, you might expect my colleagues who support this amendment to offer amendments that remove generally applicable bankruptcy protections from other entities. 
   For example, I don't see them proposing to remove protections for union leaders who may acquiesce in strike violence around a plant, or environmental terrorists or their organization who may damage the equipment of logging companies. They are not proposing we provide special protections for Hollywood production companies that inundate our children with smut and violence. 
   Take, for example, the Hollywood entertainment industry. Through pornographic, violent movies and other activities, this industry pumps violent images into the minds of our people, especially children. 
   Michael Carneal, the high school student in Paducah, KY, who killed several of his classmates, stated that the violent Hollywood movie, ``The Basketball Diaries,'' which featured a disaffected high school student who shoots a gun into a classroom of students, influenced him to commit his horrible crime. 
   Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold--the killers in the Littleton, CO, Columbine High School--were avid players of the video game ``Doom'' in which they hunted down and shot their victims. As the New York Times stated, ``the search for the cause in the Littleton shootings continues, and much of it has come to focus on violent video games.'' 
   Will there be lawsuits against those companies? 
   Who can forget Ted Bundy, a serial killer who preyed on young co-eds, who was convicted and sentenced to death in the electric chair? He confessed that he became addicted to pornography and that pornography played a major role in developing his homicidal fantasies that led to his violent and horrific crimes. 
   As Senator HATCH's recent Report entitled, ``Children, Violence, and the Media'' noted: ``The debate is over,'' begins a position paper on media violence by the American Psychiatric Association, ``[f]or the last three decades, the one predominant finding in research on the mass media is that exposure to media portrayals of violence increases aggressive behavior in children.'' In the words of Jeffrey McIntyre, legislative and federal affairs officer for the American Psychological Association, ``To argue against it is like arguing against gravity.'' 
   But Hollywood and other activist groups are not targets of these bankruptcy penalties. Why? Because they are friends of some of the people proposing these amendments. 
   After criticizing Hollywood in public for violent movies and video games that could be responsible for tragedies such as the one at Columbine High School, President Clinton that same day went to a fundraiser in which Hollywood contributors gave $2 million to the Democratic Party. 
   Supporters of this amendment say they want to stop those who peddle violence to children; that is, punish gun manufacturers, they say. But what about these others who could be sued and have judgments against them? I could say let's provide an exception to them. But, really, that is not the right approach for us to take. We ought not to be carving out exceptions and protections and targeting groups we don't like. We need to create a basic bankruptcy law that treats all lawful businesses the same. 
   It certainly strikes me as odd that we would want to target people who feel deeply about an issue such as abortion and who, through perhaps excess zeal, may potentially violate the law when protesting against abortion. But what about other groups? Union leaders are also picketing. Civil rights groups, ACLU groups--why aren't they being singled out by this amendment? 
   These amendments do not represent a high-minded, moral stance against the marketing of violence or against violence itself. Instead, the real reason behind these proposals, it appears to me, is to attack political enemies of certain people. 
   I could consider offering amendments to include groups such as pornographers, but I don't think that is the right approach. I believe we ought to stay with the historic general principles of law that say those who are willful and those who are malicious cannot discharge their debt.  
   I would like to say a couple of things about the gun manufacturer lawsuits. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Arizona. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Pardon me, that is not the Senator from Arizona. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Presiding Officer from---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I trust we will remember next time. 
   The argument was made previously that we target and provide an exception in the bill for drunk drivers and drunk boaters. Yes, the current law does do that. But drunk drivers and drunk boaters are the people who conduct themselves in a reckless and endangering way. They ought to be punished. It is legitimate for us to give them a different treatment. But the proposed amendment dealing with gun manufacturers does not target the illegal or irresponsible gun user. It targets a responsible, federally licensed, law-abiding gun manufacturer. That is a big difference. 
   I have not heard any of my colleagues across the aisle argue that automobile and boat manufacturers should have their product liability debt classified as ``nondischargeable.'' And they should not be. Because those manufacturers, as firearm manufacturers, are not at fault. It is the irresponsible driver or the irresponsible shooter. 
   Briefly, I will say this. With regard to the suits against gun manufacturers, I think it is very instructive to note the Department of Justice, the Presidentially appointed Attorney General, has not agreed to file these lawsuits. The reason is there is no legal basis for them. Two of them have already been dismissed. They have conjured up a political appointee in HUD, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to come up with this idea that if you sell a gun precisely according to Federal 
   law, with all the regulations and do everything you can possible, and then the buyer goes out and uses it illegally, the seller or manufacturer is liable. That is not going to hold up in a court of law. If they want to make that law, let's pass a law, let's put it on the floor and vote for it. We have to stop utilizing the litigation process to set public policy in this country. And that is what this is. It is a dangerous trend. 
   Indeed, a number of institutions which you would not expect, and individuals, have commented on this. The Washington Post, which is absolutely committed to gun control in America, as much as any institution I know of, wrote this recently, on the threats of HUD to file a lawsuit. The Post said:  
   It seems wrong for an agency of the Federal Government to organize other plaintiffs to put pressure on an industry--even a distasteful industry--to achieve policy results the administration has not been able to achieve through normal legislation and regulation.  
   They went on:  
   It is an abuse of a valuable system, [the legal system] one that could make it less valuable [the legal system could be less valuable] as people come to view the legal system as nothing more than an arm of policymakers.  
   I remember a number of years ago, Hodding Carter, who used to serve President Jimmy Carter, said on a national TV program, we liberals have gotten to the point where we want to use the legal system to carry out our agenda we can no longer win at the ballot box. 
   Robert Reich, President Clinton's former Secretary of Labor, has characterized these tactics as:  
   ..... blatant end-runs around the democratic process ..... and nothing short of a faux legislation, which sacrifices democracy to the discretion of administrative officials operating under utter secrecy.......  
   Mr. Reich goes on to say:  
   The way to fix everything isn't to turn our backs on the democratic process and pursue litigation as the administration [his former administration] is doing.  
   That is precisely what we are doing. A lawsuit by lawyers who file these actions to set public policy is dangerous because they were not elected to set that policy. They are not accountable to the people, as we are. If we want to pass a law to burden gun manufacturers further, so be it. We are accountable to the American people and we are responsible for the law. But who are these people who, through lawsuits and secret negotiations, are going do that? That is how we got into this. I don't think these lawsuits are going to be successful, but I certainly do not believe we ought to provide a particular exception, that if somehow they are successful and judgments are rendered so the companies have to go into bankruptcy, somehow they cannot even go into bankruptcy and discharge their debts. That is what we are talking about. 
   With regard to both of these amendments, they are targeted. They have the earmarks of having a political agenda behind them. They interfere with the objectivity and fairness of the bankruptcy code. We ought not pass them. We ought to reject them both, and we ought to reject the Feingold amendment on rent because we do not need to continue to provide a Federal court trial of matters involving eviction. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator from Alabama yields the floor and thanks the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-20000202</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. You got it right. 
   Mr. President, I must register my strongest opposition to this amendment. It continues the one thing that causes so much grief. It makes a Federal case out of eviction proceedings. We know that in Los Angeles 3,886 bankruptcy cases were filed in 1996 simply to delay the eviction cases that were pending in the State court. In other words, if you file for eviction, under the current law when a person files bankruptcy, that eviction case is stayed. It then goes to bankruptcy court. 
   The landlord, many of whom are individual people without great wealth, have already hired a lawyer to handle the eviction and now has to hire a Federal court bankruptcy lawyer to go into Federal court. After they win, as they always do because an expired lease is not an asset of the estate and cannot be subject to the control of the bankruptcy judge, they have to then go back to State court, ask the State judge to pick up the litigation, and proceed. 
   The 15-days that the Senator suggests is better than his first amendment, but it does in no way deny the person from going to Federal court. They can then have a hearing after the 15 days. They can contest whether the tenant used drugs or not in Federal court. They are evicting them from the apartment because of drug use or other reasons. 
   We simply should not do this. The true fact is that eventually all these contests in bankruptcy court are eventually lost. Why go through the process? Let the State court eviction proceedings hold sway and make the decisions where they have always been made. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000131</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000131</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I believe the pending order of business is the bankruptcy bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000131</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would like to talk about the pending bankruptcy bill and give my full and total support to the work of Senator GRASSLEY and others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000131</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I give my total support to this bill, which is a needed overhaul reform update and modernization of an act that is very important to America. It allows people every day--over a million a year--to totally wipe out debts that they owe, to start afresh and not pay people they have legally obligated themselves to pay. It is part of our historical constitutional process. We venerate that right to start anew. 
   Over the past years, we also have recognized there are a number of problems with the way bankruptcy is being handled. We believe we can make it better. I believe this bill does make it better. As a new Senator who has been here only 3 years, it has been somewhat frustrating to see that we cannot quite get a final vote on the bill. At one time or another, at the most inopportune moments, there has been a group of people who have come up with objections and delays, and we have now been on this for 3 years. 
   It has passed this body with over 90 votes. At one time it came out of the Judiciary Committee with a 16-2 vote. We have a good, broad, bipartisan bill that improves bankruptcy law, and it ought to be passed. The objections to this legislation have only been those of the most complex and minute nature. The overall aspects of this bill are sound. It has very little opposition. 
   Let me point out a few things. 
   Bankruptcies have increased 350 percent since 1980, during a time of great economic expansion. In 1980, there were 287,000 bankruptcies filed. In 1999, as this chart shows, there were 1,300,000 bankruptcies filed. And 1999, as the President told us the other night, was a great year for Americans economically. 
   How is this happening? Is this necessary? Are these all legitimate? What can we do about it? That is what this bill addresses. 
   I believe we do need reform because of an extraordinary increase in filings. 
   Some are saying we do not need this bill. There was an ad run in a local Washington newspaper that said: We do not need the bankruptcy legislation; we had a 7 percent drop last year in filings; so, therefore, you should just stop all the work that you have been doing. 
   I thought that was a silly ad. After a 350 percent increase, we have one of the best economic years ever and had a modest decline of 7 percent, and somehow that suggests we do not have a problem with filings? We do have a problem with filings. The numbers still are well over 1 million filings per year. 
   There is another reason we need bankruptcy reform. I am a lawyer. I served as a U.S. attorney. I am on the Judiciary Committee. I believe that the rule of law ought to be consistent and fair, worthy of respect. I also recognize that lawyers are strong advocates. I respect that. Sometimes they get unscrupulous and abuse the system, but generally what lawyers do is  take the law we pass and use it for everything they are worth to benefit their client. 
   That is what has happened with the bankruptcy system. Since 1978,--the last time we had bankruptcy reform--lawyers have learned how to manipulate the law. They have learned how to do things that have in many ways abused the operation of the system. It leads to hard feelings. It leads to a sense of unfairness and frustration when people feel their just debts are unfairly, without justification, wiped out and not paid because of a technicality in the bankruptcy law. People have to spend extraordinary sums of money to litigate an issue in bankruptcy court that should be decided easily by a clearly written statute. So we do have abuse of the system. No matter how many filings there are, we need a system that is fair for the filings that do occur. That is what we have worked on in these last several years. 
   We have a number of basic principles. If a person can pay the debts he or she justly obligated themselves to pay, that person should pay it or at least that portion of it they are able to pay. If they are unable to pay their debts, they ought to be able to wipe them out in bankruptcy. 
   What we are seeing today--and I am hearing this from people I talk to all over Alabama--is people who are making $80,000, $90,000, $100,000 and could easily pay back all or part of their debts are going into bankruptcy and wiping out every debt they owe. Often they are not paying the people they previously agreed to pay when they undertook the debt and got the loan or the benefits from the gas station or the automobile dealership or the furniture store. When they got those benefits, they agreed to pay them. The creditors or businesses don't make as much money as the debtors do, and they are able to go into court and wipe that out. If you think that is not happening, I can assure you that it happens every day in America. We allow that under present bankruptcy law. There is a section called substantial abuse that a judge can use to reduce the abuses under current law, but what our hearings have found is that it is totally ineffective and is almost never utilized in the American bankruptcy system today. 
   What we are trying to do is legislate precisely what a substantial abuse of the system is. For those who can pay a part of their debts, they ought to pay them. What could be more fair? 
   What we have come up with is a system called needs-based bankruptcy. That is, to the extent to which you need bankruptcy relief, you get it. But if you don't need it and can pay your debts, you ought to pay some of them or part of them. So the way the act is written, if a person can pay 25 percent of their nonpriority unsecured claims--setting aside as a priority child support and alimony--if you can, after paying that, pay 25 percent of your nonpriority unsecured claims, then you ought to pay those or $15,000, whichever is less, and we give the debtor 5 years in which to pay that. That is the kind of thing I think is the right step. 
   To have a bright line rule and to try to make sure we are not clogging the court with too much work, and that we are having a fair system, we have in the act provisions that say, in effect, that if a person makes above the median American income, they can't be forced to pay back some or all of their debt. They can still file, as they always have, in straight bankruptcy. 
   For example, a family of four who makes $44,000 is making the median income in America. If they are making $43,000, the presumption that they ought to and they can pay back some of their 
   debt, does not apply to them because they will be making below the median income. So the new rule change only affects those who are making above the median income in America today. We think that is fair and reasonable. If you are making above the median income and you can pay back some of your debts, many times to people who make less than you do, you ought to pay those debts. I think that is a good step in the right direction. 
   There are a number of other abuses in the system. I mentioned child support and alimony. Under current law, half a dozen categories of debt are given repayment priority over child support and alimony. The sponsors of this bill, Senators GRASSLEY and HATCH, made clear at the very beginning we were going to move child support and alimony up to No. 1--there would not be any debate about that--even higher than lawyers fees. Of course, the lawyers are not too happy about that, but that is what we think about it: child support ought to be tops. So how anybody could go around and suggest, as some have, that this legislation is unfair to women and children is beyond my comprehension. It is baffling to me. I wonder how anyone can make that complaint and not be doing it with the most deliberate intent to smear this legislation. I think they need to read the bill. 
   It gives the highest, unprecedented priority to child support. If an individual files bankruptcy and they owe alimony or child support, the moneys they have will go first to pay alimony and child support before it even pays the lawyer and the bankruptcy trustees. 
   I know that Senator GRASSLEY felt strongly about another reform in this bill. Many of the people who are owed money, creditors, by people who have filed bankruptcy get a legal notice that they are to appear in court. They have to go out and hire a lawyer to send them to the courthouse and fight over a $2,000, $3,500 claim. Oftentimes the lawyer's fees cost more than the person actually collects. This legislation makes clear that if you have a claim, you can go to court and represent yourself without having to hire a lawyer. 
   I am quite confident that in most cases for smaller claims the bankruptcy judges are going to give a fair hearing to those people. Many times they will not need to hire an attorney to represent them in bankruptcy court. That is going to save a lot of money, in my view, for people who need it and don't need to be wasting it on unnecessary court hearings and fees. 
   There has been a real problem with repeat filers. People are repeatedly filing in bankruptcy. That is extraordinarily frustrating to people who observe the system. We have a Federal bankruptcy commission made up of Federal judges and top bankruptcy experts that has expressed its concern about these repeat filings. We have good provisions that will eliminate some of the abuses in repeat filings, something that is long overdue. 
   I felt strongly about, and debated with Senator KOHL and others, the reform of the unlimited homestead exemption. In several States--Texas, Florida, for example--no matter how much money you owe, you can keep your house, no matter how valuable that house is. It is quite clever that some people realize this and go out and buy multimillion-dollar mansions, pour all their assets into those homes and call it their homestead. Then they go bankrupt and don't pay their accountant, their doctor, their lawyer or anybody else, and they are sitting in a multimillion-dollar home. That is not right. Why should people who are living in modest houses not get paid by somebody who is living in a house worth several million dollars? We have had hearings about that. We have newspaper articles that actually identify people by name who have moved to Florida, moved to Texas, buy these mansions, and don't pay the people they owe. 
   So we have at least capped that exemption at the level of $100,000. I think that is a bit high. However, the States can lower it. Some States have $15,000 as all you can keep in a homestead; others have $50,000. But the maximum now is $100,000, instead of just allowing quite a number of States to have unlimited homesteads. In fact, they will do things such as move out of a State where they owe a lot of debt, pump all their money into a homestead in another State, declare bankruptcy, and pay nobody back home where they left. That is an abuse we have eliminated in the legislation as it is today. 
   We had a common problem with landlord-tenant. If anybody has managed an apartment duplex, or maybe has had a garage apartment or a few housing units, and rented those, you know how difficult the eviction process is. Each State in this country has a complex system of eviction procedures so that tenants cannot be unfairly removed from their premises. Sometimes these laws are pretty complex and it takes a good bit of effort before somebody can be removed if they don't pay their rent, or if they are using drugs on the premises, or destroying the property, or disrupting the neighborhood. It is very  difficult sometimes. But there is a procedure for it, and you can go to State court and evict someone. 
   We are finding that lawyers are running ads in the paper such as this: ``Seven months free rent. Call me if you have a problem paying your rent. We guarantee you can live rent free for seven months.'' We have ads on that: ``Seven months free rent, 100 percent guaranteed in writing. We guarantee you can stay in your apartment or house 2 to 7 months more without paying a penny of rent.'' 
   How can they do that? They are doing it because they get the person in and tell them to file bankruptcy, and usually they tell them to wait until the last step of the eviction process is about to be taken in State court, when the judge has heard the case and they are about to rule that you can be evicted, presumably. Then they file for bankruptcy. 
   What happens when you file an action in bankruptcy? It stays, or stops, automatically, all the proceedings in State court. So this stops the eviction proceeding, no matter how close it is to finality. And then the poor landlords--who opponents of the bill like to suggest are usually big wealthy people, but normally most of the landlords in America have smaller units of housing and don't have legal staffs and an ability to respond--now they have to go to bankruptcy court. The case is docketed, the judge sets a hearing, and somebody asks for a continuance, and they have to hire a lawyer. Now the tenant is fussing and saying he wasn't using drugs anyway and should not be kicked out. Now we have another trial going in Federal court over whether or not this person should be evicted. We found that, in California, 3,886 bankruptcy cases were filed simply to stop eviction proceedings by the sheriff's office in Los Angeles. That is an astounding number from just one county in America. It is this kind of ad that generates this kind of action. 
   I don't know for sure, but a lot of these people probably didn't need to file bankruptcy, but we are giving them a priority and advantages that other people who don't file bankruptcy don't get. It seems to me that, in effect, we are saying to a landlord: You have to be a private charity. You have to let this person stay in your premises for 7 months without paying rent before we can get him out of there, and we in the law can't do anything about it. That is the way the law is written. 
   Well, it is our job as Senators and Members of Congress to fix laws that have those kinds of loopholes. We are going to fix that one. We are not going to have that kind of abuse continuing to occur in America. It is not right. It is our responsibility 
   to end this abuse. You can blame the lawyers all you want, but if the law allows them to do it, they can do it. It is our job to make the law, not the lawyers who are using it. 
   We have another idea that I thought about and believe in strongly. I have visited, in my hometown of Mobile, AL, a credit counseling agency. I spent nearly a full day there. These agencies are in existence virtually in every town in this country. They are very popular. People, more than you know, have financial troubles. It is the leading cause of family breakup in America--financial disputes among spouses. What we need more than we need bankruptcy relief in America is a system to encourage people to be good money managers, to recognize what their income is, to set a budget, and have the whole family agree to it and stand by it. When that occurs, we can avoid many of the problems we now see. 
   I will note that I don't dispute at all that quite a number--perhaps well over half of bankruptcies that are filed--are filed because of things beyond people's ability to control. Maybe it is because of an automobile accident, or a serious medical bill, or a business failure, or maybe a mental illness or something else in the family. So there are reasons. But for a large number of Americans, they don't need to be this bad off in this time of economic growth. A lot of it is just a simple inability to understand how to manage their money. 
   A credit counseling agency will bring the entire family in, and they will sit around the table and prepare a budget for the family and help them agree to it and have them sign that agreement. They will help them decide what debts to pay first. The credit counseling agency will call creditors demanding payment and say: We are here working with this couple. If you will give us 3 months to take care of some other bills, we will start paying you. We will start paying you so much a month, and we will pay this debt down. Give us that chance. 
   Creditors are able to do that on a regular basis. They work out things for these families and help them to not only avoid bankruptcy, they help them to pay off their debts and help them to generate a lifestyle of good money management, which will continue in the future and perhaps cause them to avoid filing bankruptcy again in the future. We like that idea. 
   Our legislation says that before you file bankruptcy, you must at least visit and talk with a credit counseling agency to see if they may be able to help you with an alternative to bankruptcy. Frankly, lawyers are not doing that. Basically, what is happening with lawyers today is, they are running ads in the paper, and people are coming in and meeting with paralegals who fill out the form, and they file the bankruptcy; they tell them how much the fee is going to be, and then they tell them how to get the money for the fee, to use credit cards and everything else, and don't pay any debts, take the money you make and give it to me as a lawyer fee, and I will file for you as soon as the money is there. That is basically what is happening. It is not good. We need to be concerned about families and try to get them on the right track of thinking about financial obligations and the need to repay them. 
   So there are some other matters in this bill--many more matters of great import. I am excited about it. I think it is overdue. I want to express my appreciation again for the leadership of Senator GRASSLEY. He has steadfastly, fairly, and in a bipartisan way, worked to move this bill to final passage. 
   I am convinced we are on the verge of that now. I thought we were previously. It slipped away from us. But we passed it twice in this body I think with overwhelming votes--one time, I believe with only one ``no'' vote. 
   We are going to pass this bill. It is a good bill. It will make our bankruptcy system a form of Federal court in which people who are unable to pay their debt can choose to go in and have those wiped out. 
   We are going to create a system that is better than the current system. The vast majority of filers will be able to wipe out all of the debt like they always have. But for those who can pay, they ought to be made to pay some of it and to allow the other abuses and costs that go with it to be eliminated. 
   Attorney fees and litigation can be eliminated. Some people are going to find maybe there is an alternative through a credit counseling agency rather than going through the process of filing bankruptcy. I think that will be a good step. 
   I am proud to have worked on this. I am proud to have worked with Senator GRASSLEY, whom I admire so greatly. I look forward to final passage and signing by the President of this important legislation. 
   Thank you, Madam President. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, it is great to be back in session this morning and see my chairman, Senator HATCH. I know today he made a big announcement. He has given his heart over the last several months and offered himself to the American people as our next President. He did so with integrity. Throughout the year, he chaired the Judiciary Committee. We never slacked in our committee hearings. He was here and missed hardly any votes. So many of our candidates seem to give up their responsibilities in the House or the Senate, but he did not do so. He regularly cast his votes day after day. This is the first real business of the Senate, a day in which he made an announcement. I know it was very important to him that he would not continue his seeking of the Presidency, and he is introducing and leading the fight for a very important and historic bankruptcy reform bill that is long overdue. 
   Senator HATCH and Senator GRASSLEY have worked exceedingly hard to make this bill a reality. We are on the verge of it becoming a reality. It has been frustrating. The last time we passed this bill in the last hours of the last Congress, it had over 95 votes and only 1 or 2 opposing votes. It came out of committee last year 16-2, with almost that many votes this time in Judiciary Committee. 
   It is a bill whose time has come. I am glad we are bringing it up. I thank the majority leader, Senator TRENT LOTT, for saying we need to bring this to a conclusion and calling it up for debate at the beginning. 
   There has been some suggestion and some comments recently about a decline in bankruptcy filings this past year. One full-page ad--I suppose designed to influence this body--was in one of the local Washington papers. The headline was, ``The Incredible Disappearing Bankruptcy Problem.'' 
   Let's talk about the numbers. Chairman HATCH mentioned those earlier. In 1980, when we had an economy that was weaker than it is today, there were only 287,000 bankruptcy filings. In 1998, less than 20 years later, with the economy one of the strongest we have ever had, the number of personal bankruptcy filings has skyrocketed to 1,398,000--a 386-percent increase. That is a stunning fact. 
   In 1999 when the economy was even stronger--we had an even stronger economy last year than in 1998--we had a modest 7-percent reduction in bankruptcy filings. Some are saying we don't need to have any bankruptcy reform, that it is a disappearing problem. I hardly think anybody can believe that a 7-percent reduction, after a 386-percent increase, suggests in any way that we don't continue to have a bankruptcy problem. 
   The Consumer Federation of America, which is really hard left in my view, issued a press release saying the crisis is over. That certainly is not the fact. In 1997, the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, with Federal judges and bankruptcy experts on it, issued a report that stated the most visible and disturbing fact about consumer bankruptcy has been the extraordinary increase in filings in the last two decades. Since 1980, the rate of consumer bankruptcies has risen nearly threefold. These are the words of the official report of the Commission. Certainly nothing has happened since that report was issued in 1997 to indicate we have had any significant permanent reduction. 
   In 1996, the number of consumer bankruptcy filings was 1.1 million. In 1999, the estimated number of filings is 1.3 million. Thus, since the Bankruptcy Review Commission complained about the alarming number of filings, the filings have increased 16 percent. 
   So since the official report's conclusion criticizing and complaining and expressing concern about the large number of filings, it has increased 16 percent since then. 
   I believe we do have a problem. We have a deep problem of abusive and repeat filers, people whose lawyers tell them clever ways to beat their legitimate debts. There are a lot of abuses in this system. So while we are happy we have had a modest decrease in filings, we have not dealt with the fundamental problem. The reason we have a bankruptcy reform bill is not because there are a large number of filings. The reason we have this bankruptcy reform bill is that the system is not working fairly. Too many people with high incomes--$70,000, $80,000, $90,000--are filing bankruptcy and are not paying their debts when they could easily do so. The moral question arises because the person they owe may have far less income than they do--maybe it is their neighborhood garage mechanic who worked on their car. They may have greater income than the people they owe, who they are not repaying. 
   So we want to make sure the historic principle of bankruptcy is alive and well: That a person can wipe out his debts and start over again and not be burdened with unpayable debts. But when a person can reasonably pay a substantial part of those debts, we believe he ought to do so. That is what we will be talking about today. 
   The purpose of bankruptcy reform is--hopefully, we will have some reduction in filings. I do not expect we will have much of a reduction as a result of this reform, but our basic goal in bankruptcy reform is to have a system that works better to reduce litigation, to reduce the cost. We make it so you do not have to have a lawyer to represent yourself on a matter in bankruptcy court. We required that persons be at least knowledgeable of and have an opportunity to talk with a credit counseling agency. They are in every locality in America. They help people deal with their financial crises, short of declaring bankruptcy on many occasions. Sometimes they will tell them, ``You cannot handle it, you have to go to bankruptcy.'' Or they may say they need to have a budget and get the family in and deal with the fundamental problems, where they are in debt, and start first paying the debts off with the highest interest rates. 
   Our goal is not primarily to reduce bankruptcy filings. Our goal primarily is to end abuses and problems that have made themselves clear over the past 30 years since we last reviewed bankruptcy. The lawyers have learned how to work the system well. We need to create a legal system that has integrity and efficiency and that everyone can respect. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I don't think I mentioned about Senator HATCH, when he came to Alabama, and there were 2,000 delegates there at a State convention voting for President, he came within a few votes of being the winner. He had a great showing in our home State of Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I had a question about the amendment but I don't think it is necessary to pursue it today at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-20000126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will be interested in the Senator's pipeline safety bill. That is a matter that is important. The pipelines are so much safer than trucks and other forms of distribution of fossil fuel. We are moving toward the use of natural gas, which burns so much cleaner than coal, fossil fuel, and other fuels. I think we will be having more pipelines around the country. I think it will be essential. It will be a positive environmental step to move forward with it. 
   I have been somewhat discouraged that the Vice President has indicated he opposes drilling for natural gas off the gulf coast where it can be done so much more safely than drilling for liquid gas. We have had very few problems of any kind drilling off the coast. In fact, it produces the cleanest burning fuel we have. We have the Vice President opposing nuclear power, and now we are shutting off our capacity to reach natural gas which we are now using to generate electricity at a fraction of the environmental pollutants that other forms of energy generate. We are reaching a point of boxing ourselves in. We are supposed to reach  cleaner air goals under the Kyoto agreement. The President and Vice President say we should go forward, but we are boxing ourselves in. 
   We need to maintain an efficient gas pipeline system in America to generate the energy for the needs we have while continuing to reduce pollutants in the atmosphere. It has to be safe, too. I am willing to look at that. I certainly don't favor additional regulations, but if it promotes safety, I think it is something we ought to talk about. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Delaware, and I thank him particularly for his interest on this issue and so many other issues that have been before this Senate, including all of the major tax cuts in our country in the last number of years. He has been a key player in that. 
   The issue before us today involves many different aspects. I believe very strongly that the organ transplant issue is critical for our Nation. We have made such magnificent progress in enhancing the availability of organs, helping people who receive those organs, and increasing the success rate of organ transplants. It has been a continual series of advancements--whether it is medication to avoid rejection, or the skill of a surgeon, and so forth. The key to that has been the magnificent services rendered by organ transplant centers all over the country. 
   The plan that has been directed and proposed by Secretary Shalala of HHS, which gives her, in fact, the total ability to void and dictate the regulations, that plan has been opposed and is not supported by the overwhelming number of organ transplant centers in this country. They do not believe it will save lives. They do not believe it will help the system to have Washington decide who gets organ transplants. 
   We have a system that is working and getting better on a daily basis, which is something of which we can be extraordinarily proud. 
   In Alabama, the University of Alabama at Birmingham is No. 1 in the world in kidney transplants. They are exceptionally skilled at that procedure, and is one of the great organ transplant centers in the world. Others are similar around the country. They are very uneasy about and object to this 
   consolidation of power in the Secretary's office--a person who is not elected by the people, and yet is about to impose regulations on the dispersement of organs in America. 
   This is a matter that ought to be and by law and right should be done in the U.S. Congress. The House passed a bill quite different from the Secretary's proposal. The committee met in the appropriations, and several Senators who had a view on this came up with a bill giving a 42-day window to change any rule she might pass. We will hardly be in session. We will not be in session in 42 days. Ninety days is the minimum time we can have so that this Congress can fulfill its responsibility to the health and safety of this country by having hearings and passing legitimate legislation on organ transplantation. 
   I would point out that the chairman of that subcommittee of the committee of which I am a member, Senator FRIST, Dr. FRIST, is one of the great organ transplant surgeons in America. He did the first organ-lung transplant in the history of the State of Tennessee. He will chair that committee. He is going to be fair on this issue. 
   But there is a congressional responsibility, and the minimum time we can accept is the 90 days that has been proposed. 
   I thank the Chair. 
   I hope and I am confident that will be part of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, is it your expectation following the 90-day period during which the Secretary reviews the public comments that as of today we have not had a formal comment period, as I understand it; that the Secretary should inform the Congress of her reasons behind any final decision she would make? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I wish to say that I know a lot of hard work has gone into this very contentious issue. Some said this had happened in the dead of night. What happened in the dead of night--I serve on the health committee that should be dealing with this--this 42-day rule went in. Our committee never voted on that or had hearings on it. 
   This at least gives our committee a narrow window of opportunity to try to deal with it. It won't be a full 90 days because we will be out half of that. It will be a narrow opportunity with Senator BILL FRIST chairing it and maybe we can work out some things that make sense. Right now I am very troubled. The overwhelming majority of the transplant centers are not happy with these rules as they are being developed. I think the Congress must speak. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise to ask my colleagues to join Senator JEFFORDS and me in supporting the enactment of the pending bill which clarifies the status of church welfare plans under state insurance law. These plans provide health and other benefits to ministers and lay workers at churches and church-controlled institutions. It is estimated that more than 1 million individuals rely on these programs for their health benefits. 
   Today, the status of these programs under state insurance laws is uncertain. This legislation merely provides that church welfare plans are not engaged in the business of insurance for purposes of state insurance laws that relate to licensing, solvency, or insolvency. 
   In addition, this legislation clarifies that a church plan is single employer plan for purposes of applying state insurance laws. The language in the bill is intended to eliminate concerns by network providers and insurance companies about the legal status of a church plan under state insurance law. By enacting this legislation, networks and insurance companies otherwise doing business in a state will be able to offer to church plans the same services they offer to corporate benefit programs. 
   Mr. President, I first became aware of the need for this legislation when I heard from Bishop Morris from my own state of Alabama. He explained that too frequently church plans are denied access to network providers that offer discounted rates. He also explained that from time-to-time questions arise about the legal right of church plans to provide coverage under state insurance law. He asked me to look into what I could do help clarify the legal status of health plans maintained by churches and synagogues. It seemed like a reasonable request since Congress has authorized churches to maintain denominational benefit programs. However, this is also a technical area of the law that involves constitutional issues of separation of church and state. It also involves technical issues regarding insurance and benefit laws. 
   This legislation has been carefully crafted with the help of the church benefits community represented by the Church Alliance, a coalition of more than 30 denominational benefit programs. While they may differ on questions of theology, it is obvious that they are united in their efforts to serve those who serve their respective churches and synagogues. I also want to commend the National Association of Insurance Commissioners for their assistance in helping to work out the language of this bill. It is obvious that State Insurance Commissioners respect the right of churches to maintain benefit programs that serve clergy and lay workers. 
   Mr. President, churches should be commended for the commitment they have demonstrated, in some cases for more than a hundred years, to offer comprehensive benefit programs to their employees. These programs have many unique design and structural features reflecting the fact that they are maintained by denominations. As we consider health care legislation in Congress, I believe that it is important for all of us to recognize these unique features and to be mindful of the important role these church-maintained programs perform within their respective churches. 
   In order to give my colleagues and the public a better understanding of this legislation, I ask unanimous consent that a section-by-section of the bill appear immediately after my remarks. 
   Mr. President, on behalf of ministers, rabbis, and church lay workers across this country who receive benefit coverage from church plans, I urge passage of this legislation. 
   Clarification of Church Welfare Plan Status Under State Insurance Law 
   Section 1 provides a statement of purpose. This section provides that the only purpose of this Act is to clarify the status of church welfare plans under certain specified state insurance law requirements and the status of a church welfare plan as a plan sponsored by a single employer. This Act clarified the status of church plans under state law. It also addresses the problem of health insurance issuers refusing to do business with church plans because of concern that church plans could be classified as unlicensed entities. 
   Subsection 2(a) provides that a church welfare plan is deemed to be sponsored by a single employer that does not engage in the business of insurance for the purposes of state insurance laws described in subsection (b). This subsection permits network providers and insurance companies to establish the same contractual relationships with a church plan as they are allowed to establish with any single employer plan covered under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) in such state. 
   Subsection 2(b) describes state insurance laws that (1) would require a church welfare plan or an entity that can administer or fund such a plan (only to the extent that it engages in such activity) to be licensed; or (2) relate to solvency or insolvency (including participation in guaranty funds and associations). For example, state insurance laws that impose reserve requirements or require posting of security would be described in this subsection. Similarly the plan is deemed to satisfy the licensing requirements of state insurance law. 
   Subsection 2(c)(1) defines the term ``church plan.'' 
   Subsection 2(c)(2) defines the term ``reimburses costs from general church assets.'' The affect of this definition is to provide that church welfare plans are not engaging in the business of insurance for certain state insurance law provisions otherwise described in this subsection 2(b). 
   Subsection 2(c)(3) defines the term ``welfare plan.'' This subsection clarifies that the term ``welfare plan'' only includes church plans and does not include HMOs, health insurance issuers and other entities doing business with church plans or organizations sponsoring or maintaining the plan. 
   Subsection 2(d) provides that while the Act exempts church welfare plans from state licensing requirements, states preserve authority to enforce state insurance law provisions that remain applicable to church plans. This subsection deems welfare plans to be licensed for purposes of all other insurance laws not specifically excluded in subsection 2(b). This subsection is necessary because under some state insurance laws, only entities that are actually licensed can be subject to enforcement action under any provision of such law. 
   Subsection 2(e) provides that while subsections (a) and (b) deem that a church plan reimburses costs or provides insurance from general church assets for the purpose of determining its status under certain state insurance laws, the rights of plan participants and beneficiaries, including those who actually make plan contributions, are not otherwise affected by the application of section 2.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on the order, I think it would be appropriate for Senator FEINGOLD to proceed at this time. Further, I think we will proceed without unanimous consent after that. Senator GRASSLEY will be back, and we can decide what to do then. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I appreciate the work of the Senator from Wisconsin. I know he cares deeply about this issue. He has made some changes in the previous amendment that make the bill more palatable. However, it still runs afoul of common sense and efficient operation of the bankruptcy system. Furthermore, it will allow abuse of the system in a way that is unjustified and unprecedented in terms of any other creditor of a person who goes into bankruptcy. 
   We are asking a landlord for certain periods of time to extend free rent, when the grocer is not required to give free groceries and the gas station is not required to give free gas. 
   Let me make a few points about this matter. It is a subject of great abuse in the United States. That is why we are here. The bankruptcy law was last amended in any significant fashion in 1978. Since that time, we have found that a large bankruptcy bar has developed. This has been very good in many ways, but also this skilled, experienced and specialized bar has learned how to utilize the Federal bankruptcy laws to maximize benefits for their clients, as they believe it is their duty to do. In the process, they have created abuses of innocent creditors and landlords, among others. 
   That is not what we are about. Our responsibility, as a Congress, is not to blame the lawyers, is not to blame the tenants who take advantage of these things. The responsibility of Congress is to pass laws that are not easily abused and that end in just results. 
   One of the most abused sections of the bankruptcy law has been the landlord-tenant situation. First, eviction procedures are set forth in the laws of all 50 States. One cannot simply throw somebody out of their apartment. One has to file an eviction notice, go to the State court, prove the case, and eventually get the tenant out. Many believe that process is far too prolonged and far too costly. That is what the law is. In many instances, it is good because it provides tenants opportunities to get their affairs together. 
   With the current bankruptcy law, tenants have responded to ads in newspapers and fliers passed out in neighborhoods and throughout the communities. Those ads say: Up to 7 months free rent. Call us; we will take care of you. We guarantee you 2 to 7 months of delays in payment of your rent and guarantee you will not be evicted under those circumstances. 
   How can that happen? Say a person is behind in his rent and also behind in other payments, and people have filed lawsuits against him, and he or she has gone to the lawyer to ask what to do, and the lawyer files for bankruptcy. Maybe the lease the person had with the landlord has already expired. Maybe it requires him to pay his rent monthly, and it has been 4 or 5 months since the rent has been paid, and the landlord has already commenced eviction actions against the tenant. When that happens, the matter normally goes forward in State court. 
   Under normal State laws for removal of someone who does not pay their rent, when a bankruptcy court is involved, the eviction case is stayed; an automatic stay is issued. The landlord cannot proceed with that eviction until the stay is lifted in the bankruptcy court. Once that happens, the landlord can go back to State court and continue with his lawful eviction actions. 
   This has caused quite a bit of gaming of the system. For example, I will share with Members some statistics from California. The Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department estimates that 3,886 residents filed for bankruptcy in 1996 simply to prevent the execution of valid court-ordered evictions. The sheriff has the responsibility of actually evicting the tenant. The Sheriffs Department of Los Angeles said these 3,886 bankruptcy petitions 
   represent over 7 percent of all the eviction cases handled by the department and that losses have been estimated at nearly $6 million per year in that county. Some people routinely flaunt that automatic stay provision--lawyers do--that advertises that persons may live rent free by filing bankruptcy. 
   One bankruptcy flier sent out said for a fee the lawyers will use more moves than Magic Johnson to prolong the eviction process. 
   This is not good. A judge in California has dealt with this matter over and over again, and in an opinion, this  is what Judge Zurzolo in the Central District of California had to say about the evictions and how he believes how meritless they are. This is from his written opinion:  
   ..... the bankruptcy courts ..... are flooded with chapter 7 and chapter 13 cases filed solely for the purpose of delaying unlawful detainer evictions. Inevitably and swiftly following this in bankruptcy court, the filing of these cases, is the filing of a motion for relief of stay by the landlord.  
   After the bankruptcy is filed and the eviction notice is stopped, the landlord has to go into bankruptcy court with his lawyer and file for relief from stay and say: Look, I have not been paid rent for many months; the tenant is in violation of the lease; there is no asset of which the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction. Bankruptcy judge, allow me to proceed with my eviction. 
   Or the landlord will say: The lease has expired. The tenant has been here a year. In month 14, the lease expired. He did not extend the lease. I want to remove him. 
   This is what the judge continues to say in his opinion:  
   These relief from stay motions are rarely contested and are never lost. Bankruptcy courts in our district hear dozens of these stay motions weekly, none of which involves any justiciable controversies of fact or law.  
   I don't know about the individual who says he represented a lot of cases and said he won some of the motions, but I don't believe they ought to be winning them under the law if the lease has expired, and that is what our amendment says. If the lease has expired, there cannot be an asset of the bankruptcy estate, and if there is no asset for the bankruptcy court to take jurisdiction over, it has no ability to issue any stay orders to protect or stop any litigation that is ongoing. 
   That couldn't be the case. If the lease is behind and the payments have been so far delayed that the lease has been violated and, likewise, the tenant has no property interests, there is no asset before the bankruptcy court over which the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction. The bankruptcy court essentially has jurisdiction only over the assets, to make sure when a person cannot pay his debts, all the assets are brought into the pot and the people who should receive the money from the estate get it in proper order. 
   We are talking about monumental abuse. This is a loophole that has been expanded over and over again. We are seeing record numbers of filings. Many people are filing bankruptcy solely for this protection. 
   Senator FEINGOLD's amendment, which he has worked hard to improve, is better than before, but is still unacceptable and still creates an unjust situation. For example, if a debtor owes rent and files for bankruptcy, he can wait until after his rent is due and then file it and have 15 days before his first rent payment is due. Then he could make that payment and not make any more payments and remain on this property--maybe even when the lease has expired he can stay there--and not pay the next month's rent. 
   This is the problem I have been talking about. He has 2, 3, 4 months now. His lawyer is advising him how to do this. His lawyer is going to advise him, first of all: Pay me. Pay your lawyer and do not pay your other debts until you have to. The debtor will do that. Then the landlord has to get a lawyer to file a certificate of failure to pay rent, and once that has been approved by the court, after a further delay of 15 days, then he has to go back to State court, now months behind schedule, and pick up again his legitimate eviction notice. 
   Bankruptcy court ought not be for that purpose. If the people of the United States want to provide individuals without assets a place to live, then we ought to do so. In fact, we do that. We have low-rent housing for people with low income or rent-free housing for people who cannot afford it. We have benefits for people who do not have housing. But why should an American citizen, a landlord, be required to provide to a tenant, who has violated his lease, an asset rent free that we in the U.S. Congress are not willing to fund? If it is so easy and it costs so little, why don't we pay for it? Why don't we tax American people to pay for other people's rent? We are doing that to a degree right now. 
   I do not believe that is a legitimate approach to the matter. It is not common sense. It is not what American law is about. When you are in a Federal court, in a bankruptcy court, or a State court, if you have a lease, that is a contract, and if you violate that lease, then you lose the benefit of the contract. 
   This is so basic and fundamental that I do not know how we in this Congress can think we can pass a law that makes American citizens responsible for someone to have a place to live when they are not paying for it. 
   We have a number of different provisions in State law that allow tenants rights to hold on and refinance and maybe keep the place in which they live. That is all right. I want to continue that. If people want to change that, go to your State court, change your eviction laws in your State, and take it to your State legislature. 
   Let's not make the bankruptcy law become a policy of social engineering to decide who should get special benefits and who should pay for those benefits. In effect, it is a tax. The landlord who loses this money is a person who is taxed. Indeed, we may have landlords going bankrupt if tenants do not pay rent. 
   Two-thirds of rental residences in America today are four units or less. That means we have an awful large number of our grandparents and brothers-in-law who may have a duplex or garage apartment and are renting them to people, and all of a sudden, somebody does not pay. They cannot get the tenants out. The landlords are not receiving any money. Two, 3 months go by, and finally the landlord files for eviction. Boom, the tenant files for bankruptcy. Then, the landlord has to hire a lawyer to go to bankruptcy court, and that is another 2, 3 extra months delay. The landlord is without rent for 2, 3 months, and they still do not have their property back. 
   This is an abuse of bankruptcy law, and this legislation is designed to fix it. This bill does not change substantive landlord tenant law. Rather, it is a change in that if certain 
   circumstances exist, the landlord does not have to hire a lawyer to go to Federal bankruptcy court to get relief. 
   It says there is an exemption from the automatic stay if the eviction proceeding was started prior to the filing of the bankruptcy. If the landlord had already filed for eviction before the individual files for bankruptcy, the eviction process can continue as it would have normally. 
   In addition, the bill says the automatic stay does not apply if an eviction proceeding was based on the fact that the lease had already been terminated. It was a year's lease, and you are in month 13, 14, 15, 16 and no payments have been received and the landlord wants to lease to another tenant. It is the landlord's property. The tenant has no property rights. His lease has expired, for heaven's sake. 
   I say to Senator FEINGOLD, I respect his concern for these matters. States do provide protections for persons who have difficulty paying their rent. 
   Also, many landlords all over America try to work with their tenants. They do not want to change tenants if they are happy with a tenant. If they can help work out the tenant's payments, for previous months, that is a courtesy extended by small landlords, two-thirds of whom have four units or less. Those courtesies can turn sour in a hurry if, after months of working with a tenant, the tenant becomes further and further behind in rent. Boom, a bankruptcy petition is filed; boom, they are stayed from eviction; months go by and the landlord has to hire a lawyer and great cost is incurred. This is an abuse of the system, and I must oppose this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I do thank the Senator from Wisconsin for accepting some changes because of my objections to his last amendment. As I indicated earlier, I think he did respond to a number of those. But I also think he fairly clearly made the arguments I made a few minutes ago. I made those the last time his amendment came up also; and those were not addressed. They still remain a fundamental flaw. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. My concern is that there is fundamentally no legal basis for a stay in bankruptcy court of a lease that has expired or a lease that has been breached by lack of payment--since there is none, then the landlord ought not to have to hire a lawyer and go to bankruptcy court. So I continue to have that concern. But the Senator from Wisconsin has repeatedly said the tenant would be able to remain on the property, but only if they paid rent. 
   Let me give you a hypothetical. 
   On October 1, the tenant's rent is due. The tenant does not pay. On October 11, he files bankruptcy. On November 1, the rent is due; and it is not paid. On November 1, the landlord immediately files his notice in the bankruptcy court. And then 15 days are allowed to go by, presumably so the tenant could file some other complaint in bankruptcy court, some other delay or motion. And 15 days go by; and on November 16, the stay of the eviction proceedings is lifted. Then the landlord has to go back to the State court again to pursue his eviction notice, which has been stopped, which has probably fallen behind the 10,000 other cases in that State court system. And now the landlord has a hard time bringing it up. 
   So I would suggest to you, it is quite possible that the tenant could have 6 weeks rent free. I made the comment about ``rent free'' because I will show this advertisement right here in San Bernadino: ``7 months free rent.'' That is what is being advertised in the paper:  
   No matter how far you are behind in your rent. We guarantee you can stay in your apt. or house for 2-7 months more without paying a penny!!! Find out how. We can stop the Sheriff or Marshall and get you more time.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It does not exactly, but it gives them at least a month and a half--if not 2 months, a month and a half. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. In addition, it still allows the abuse of forcing the landlord to go to two different courts to pursue a legitimate---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Under this scenario, it is clearly 6 weeks, if everything goes  perfectly for the landlord. It is guaranteed 6 
   weeks under these circumstances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I believe I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Under most State eviction proceedings, a tenant who desires to stay on the property can maintain possession of that rental property 45 to 60 days. There are many rights and remedies for tenants. But at some point, the ability to stay without paying rent has to be ended. When you take that 45 to 60 days, and then file a bankruptcy petition, and then get another 6 weeks on top of that--and that is assuming everything goes smoothly, that the landlord can find a lawyer who will go to bankruptcy the first day he calls one, and who can get down there and file the proper petition or get his certificate filed. Maybe the landlord's lawyer does not understand how to file one of these certificates, and ends up billing him $250 or $300 for filing the darn thing, when, in fact, as the Senator, who is an excellent lawyer, knows, bankruptcy court has jurisdiction over property. 
   It is the estate of the person who is filing. If there is no property, there is no estate, which is the case where the lease has expired, or the case where the lease has been breached by lack of payment. Then the bankruptcy court can't legitimately issue an order affecting that property. The bankruptcy judge can never issue an order under those circumstances. So why make somebody go to bankruptcy court to file these petitions if it will not do anything other than cost the landlord more money to delay the eviction and cost that person money? 
   If we in the Congress want to fund people who can't pay their rents and give them emergency funding, something like that, that is a matter to debate. I don't think we ought to tax private citizens to support individuals in this fashion when their contractual rights have been ended. We have to make sure our bankruptcy system is a good, tight, legal system and not a social service agency. 
   We give certain rights and benefits to debtors under bankruptcy law. We allow a person who has tremendous debts to walk in and wipe out every one of those debts. Unless their income is above the median income and they can pay back at least 25 percent of their debts, they can go in bankruptcy court and never pay anybody they owe. They do not have to pay their garage mechanic who fixed their automobile for them, not their brother-in-law who loaned their family money when they needed it, not their mother, not their credit card company, not their bank, not their doctor, not their hospital, just wipe them all out because we believe people ought not be crushed under a weight of debt. 
   I do not believe we would expect the gas station to give free gasoline to somebody who has filed bankruptcy. I don't believe we would expect the grocery store to give free groceries to somebody who filed bankruptcy. Neither should somebody who has violated his lease, is subject to eviction under the appropriate State law, be given free rent, even for a month and a half, perhaps more. That is what our concern is. 
   I understand the Senator's great passion for this circumstance, but I believe this would be a step backward. It would allow an abuse to continue which we need to eliminate. I hope the Members of this body will reject the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I appreciate the statements of the distinguished Senator from Wisconsin. I will offer for the record three advertisements that are not particularly unusual. One I read from earlier, how they can stop the sheriff and get you more time. Call us if you lost in court. Don't give up. Call us. We will give you more time. 
   In other words, if you have had your eviction proceedings that every other citizen gets, come down and file bankruptcy and we can get you more time, even though we can wipe out all your debts. A person can then begin to find another place to live, he has no other debt, no old debts to pay. He can afford to make the rent payments, and maybe a landlord will let him stay. 
   Here is another advertisement, from Los Angeles: Stop this eviction, from 1 to 6 months. I know under the Senator's amendment it might not take quite as long. He would cut that time down. But he said from 1 to 6. But  under his amendment I just went through, wouldn't the Senator agree, it is at least a month to 6 weeks? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Not if you depend on the rent every month, as many people do who rent out their garage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It is significant if you don't get rent for 2 months or 1 month or 6 months, if you need it. 
   The Senator suggests these people are not trying to game the system. They are not sophisticated in all of this. They go to lawyers. They take advertisements like this. Those advertisements will still be there. They tell tenants how to do this. They are shocked when the lawyer says, don't pay any more on your credit card. Don't pay any more at the bank. Don't pay any more of your debts. Take your next paycheck, give it to me, and I will wipe out everything you owe. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-14-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. One of the things Senator GRASSLEY has done in the bill, and the Senator has mentioned, is to provide that you do not have to have an attorney in bankruptcy court for most of the actions that will take place. This is indeed a good step forward. You would not have to have an attorney in this landlord tenant situation. I would suggest that for the average small apartment owner who gets a notice that he is to stay his eviction procedures, and he has a lawyer who is doing the eviction procedures, he is going to ask his lawyer: What is this? What can you do to get this stay lifted? The landlord is going to hire a lawyer and end up spending several hundred dollars to get this matter taken care of, when ultimately, the procedure is such that there will be no legal basis for the filing of the complaint in the overwhelming number of cases. 
   I understand the Senator's concern. I believe this bill, as written, will provide all the protections the States have given to tenants. I believe we have a responsibility to see they have protections, that they can defend their interests in court before being thrown out of their apartments. 
   And, indeed, that is the law in every State in America today. But I do not believe we ought to allow those who file bankruptcy to have substantial benefits over those who don't file bankruptcy, who are managing somehow, in some way, on the same income, to pay their debts. I don't believe they should have a superior advantage. I don't believe landlords who are going to lose in this bankruptcy proceeding, no telling how many months rent, should be required to fund additional rents. If this body wants to pay them to allow people to stay, it is OK; otherwise, it is not. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following nominations on the Executive Calendar: No. 271 and No. 274. Further, I ask unanimous consent that the nominations be confirmed, the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, that any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the RECORD, the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. On behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 11 a.m. on Thursday, November 18. I further ask consent that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then begin a period of morning business for 1 hour, with Senators speaking for up to 5 minutes each, with the following exceptions: Senator VOINOVICH or his designee, 11 to 11:30; Senator DURBIN or his designee, 11:30 to 12 noon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, at 11 a.m. on Thursday, the Senate will begin a period of morning business until 12 noon. Following morning business, it is expected that the Senate will begin work on measures regarding the appropriations process. Final agreements are being made, and it is hoped final action on the appropriations measures can begin as soon as possible. 
   I thank my colleagues for their patience and cooperation during these final days prior to adjournment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the RECORD remain open until 9 p.m. in order for the majority leader to introduce a Senate bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 7:09 p.m., adjourned until Thursday, November 18, 1999, at 11 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Under the unanimous consent agreement, I am to speak at this time; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator GRASSLEY for his leadership in the effort against drugs. I am a strong believer that this legislation that focuses on methamphetamine is focusing on critical issues that are important to America. We do have a spreading of methamphetamine around the country, and I am inclined to believe that increased penalties, and certainly a lot of other things involved in that legislation, is good. It has also been made a part of this legislation--efforts to change the current law with regard to crack cocaine and powder cocaine. 
   Complaints have been made that crack cocaine penalties are 100 times more tough than powder sentences, and that this is, in fact, not fair--a point with which I tend to agree. I prosecuted drug cases for 15 years. Every year since the sentencing guidelines were imposed, until 1992, I prosecuted drug cases. I understand how it plays out in a courtroom. The proposal that is made a part of Senator GRASSLEY's amendment is the Hatch-Ashcroft-Abraham drug amendment, I guess it is. That proposal is designed to narrow the gap, saying that crack cocaine ought not to have 100 times more severe penalty than powder cocaine. 
   An argument has been made that crack cocaine is more utilized in the African American community and, therefore, it has a disparity and a racial impact, and that we ought to look at this. Few would doubt that crack is a more dangerous drug than powder cocaine. It is smoked, it goes directly into the lungs, directly into the blood system, and directly to the brain. 
   There are intense highs achieved at once. Some people, they say, are addicted the first time they try crack cocaine. It is a dangerous drug. Powder is normally sniffed through the nose. It is easy to receive through the nostrils, into the membranes, into the blood system, and it is not quite as intense as crack. It does not cause addiction nearly so quickly. So there is a difference. 
   The idea of a 10-to-1 ratio is a movement in the right direction. 
   But my reluctance at this point with this legislation is simply this: I believe it is time for us to look at the drug guidelines and the penalties we are imposing. This legislation would have no impact on the current crack guidelines but would raise the powder guidelines. 
   We are talking about 50 grams of powder cocaine which you could virtually hold in one hand--50 grams of powder cocaine, 5 years without parole; 5 grams of crack, which could easily be held in one hand, is 5 years without parole in the Federal system. That is what we are talking about--Federal law, Federal penalties, not States which can have their own sentences in any way they want. 
   I say to the Chair that, as a prosecutor, I took the enforcement of law seriously. We had one of the highest average sentences in the United States. I think one year we had the highest average sentence imposed in the United States in drug cases. We were honest in how we presented the case: This is the way it worked; this is what the law is. 
   You charge an individual with selling crack cocaine, and normally the case doesn't just go down on the fact that he is caught with 25, 30, or 40 grams. Normally, you are prosecuting in Federal court an organization of drug dealers. You would bring in the underling who worked for that leader. You would ask him how long he had been out on this street corner or selling from this crack house. Then they say a year. How much has he sold over that year? Pretty soon, the amount goes up to kilograms, 1,000 grams, multikilograms of crack have been distributed, and that person is looking at literally 30 years, 20 years, or life without parole. 
   I have seen sentences in Federal court of quite a number of young men and women to life without parole, and others 30 years, 25 years, or 20 years without parole. I believe strong sentences are effective. I believe they allow the law enforcement community to break the back of an illegal ring such as a drug ring. 
   I don't want to go into any significant reduction in sentences, but I think it is time for us to evaluate whether or not we are approaching the drug penalties in the appropriate way. The judges are concerned. Judges think this minimum mandatory which has the effect of driving up all of the sentencing guidelines is too tough. 
   General Barry McCaffrey has questioned the crack and powder cocaine laws as proposed in this amendment. He believes there is a better approach to it. I think it is time for us to consider that. I believe we have had these guidelines in effect for quite some time now--well over a decade. I believe we ought to look at it, have some hearings, and study it. 
   I didn't want to, by voting for this amendment, suggest I was comfortable with these guidelines. In fact, my inclination would be not to vote for the amendment for that reason. 
   I simply think the best way to reduce drug trafficking by 
   law enforcement is to have more prosecutions. It is less important--I did this as a prosecutor for 17 years. I chaired the U.S. Attorneys Committee for the United States here in Washington on drug abuse and drug issues. I am a full and total believer in the sentencing guidelines, the tough Federal laws that are out there. 
   But if you ask me, my personal view is that I would prefer to have 10 people caught and sentenced to 7 years in jail rather than 5 people caught and sentenced to 14 years in jail. The best way  for us to improve our pressure from the law enforcement end on drug trafficking in America is to increase prosecutions and investigations. Whether they serve 7 years, 9 years, 12 years, or 6 years is less important than people who are out dealing drugs who know they are going to get caught and they are going to have a big time sentence to serve, and it is without parole. 
   Make no mistake about it, in State systems they normally serve a third of the time. This Congress a number of years ago, in a great piece of legislation, passed honesty in sentencing that says you serve what the judge gives you; and not only that, but you have to serve the sentence that the sentencing guidelines call for. 
   Based on the amount of drugs literally when the case hits a judge's sentencing docket and the judge looks at it, it may be the difference between 18 and 21 years. If he likes a defendant and feels sorry for him, he gives him 18 years. If he doesn't like him, he gives him 21 years. That is about all the discretion he has. 
   I am not sure we ought not to take time now to reevaluate that to make sure we are properly sentencing and we are using our resources of incarceration wisely. What is it, $20,000 a year, to keep somebody in prison? Wouldn't it be better to drive down drug use by intensive prosecutions across the board, letting the drug dealer know he is soon going to be caught and will serve a significant amount of time, than just taking a few people and sending them off for 30 years without parole? I believe that would be a better policy. I am prepared to consider that. I am prepared to work with General McCaffrey and Attorney General Reno and others in an open and fair way. 
   I do not believe we ought to eliminate the sentencing guidelines. I do not believe we ought to eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for certain amounts of drugs. I believe that is appropriate. I don't believe we ought to retreat from a tough law enforcement presence with regard to illegal drug use. 
   Just this morning, Senator COVERDELL hosted with General McCaffrey a breakfast for the Attorney General of Mexico. I was able to sit at his table and share thoughts about what we can do as two nations to improve our war against drugs. Mexico is in a crisis perhaps bigger than they realize. As the power of that illegal drug empire grows, the harder and harder it is for that country to contain it. They have to, not because we pressure them, out of their own self-interest save that country from being corrupted and destabilized by a powerful, wealthy drug empire. I hope we can encourage that and work together to assist with that. 
   We in the United States need to continue our effective efforts over the years to do education, prevention, treatment, prosecution, and incarceration of drug dealers. If we continue that effort and the interdiction effort, I believe we can bring drug use down. Everybody in this country will benefit from that. 
   I wanted to share my thoughts on this. I hope to be able to vote for this amendment. But I am not sure I can. I believe we need to seriously evaluate the sentencing guidelines and the mandatory sentences for drug use in America to make sure they are rational, that they are effectuating our effort as much as they possibly can to reduce drug use and illegal distribution of drugs in America. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent to call up amendment No. 2650 proposed by Senator REED and myself, and I send a modification to the desk and ask that the amendment be agreed to as modified and the motion to reconsider be agreed to and laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Is the Senator asking unanimous consent that he speak next? Otherwise, the Senator from Michigan is due. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I yield to the Senator from Michigan. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am proud to join with Senator KOHL on this amendment. We have spent over 2 years now working to reform the abuses in bankruptcy law. Senator KOHL has served on the Judiciary Committee. As we have gone through it, we have tried to eliminate a lot of the abuses. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is correct. 
   Mr. President, we have been trying to eliminate abuses that are in the bankruptcy system. There are many of them. We have some things in this bill that are good and true and honest and fair. It says right now that a person making $70,000 a year who owes $100,000, under Federal bankruptcy law, can go into chapter 7, wipe out all their debts, and still be living with a $100,000-a-year income and not have to pay the people from whom they receive benefits and to whom they owe money. We are saying if you have a certain level of income, then you ought to pay a part of your debt, and you would be required by the judge to develop a repayment plan for 30 percent, 50 percent, or 100 percent of the money, if you can pay it back. It is not just automatically wiping out all your debt. 
   Some have said this is abuse on the poor. But it would not affect anybody whose income did not fall below the median American income, which today for a family of four is $49,000. So this is for high-income people, and only if you make above that can you be required to pay back some of your debts. We think that is an abuse, and we think it ought to be ended. 
   Another abuse--one that may be the greatest abuse in the 
   whole bankruptcy system--Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard professor, said is ``the single biggest scandal in the consumer bankruptcy system.'' It is the unlimited homestead exemption. She said it is a scandal, and I agree. It is an absolute scandal. 
   First of all, bankruptcy law is handled in Federal court. It is all done in a Federal bankruptcy court. All the laws and all the rules are Federal laws. In one area, the Federal law says, for the purpose of bankruptcy homestead exemptions, that will be left to what the State law is. But that is a Federal law. 
   What we found is that the Bankruptcy Commission, after 3 years of study, which included judges and other experts, recommended that we take this exemption to $100,000 and it be uniform across the country. There is no reason, or history, or logical justification for a State having an unlimited bankruptcy exemption--a fact recognized, as the Senator said, by the Austin American Statesman newspaper, which said this is clearly a matter of Federal law. The scholars do not dispute it. All other aspects of bankruptcy law are determined by the Federal law. I wanted to say that first. 
   Second, we are having serious problems and abuses--a Federal bankruptcy judge in Miami, FL, one of the States that has such an unlimited exemption, like Texas, has been very critical of this. The current system ``is grossly unfair,'' said A. Jay Cristol, the chief Federal bankruptcy judge in Miami. ``This law was written to give everyone a fresh start after bankruptcy, not to allow people to keep luxury homes.'' 
   How has this abuse been playing out? Here is an article in the New York Times listing some of the examples of what we are talking about:  
   The First American Bank and Trust Company in Lake Worth, FL, closed in 1989.  
   This is in the New York Times of last year:  
   ..... its chief executive, Roy Talmo, filed for personal bankruptcy in 1993. Despite owing $6.8 million, Mr. Talmo was able to exempt a bounty of assets.  
   Exempt--that means those assets could not be used to pay people to whom he lawfully owed debts. It goes on:  
   During much of the bankruptcy proceeding, Mr. Talmo drove around Miami in a 1960 Rolls Royce and tended the grounds of his $800,000 tree farm. ..... 
   Never one to slum it, Mr. Talmo had a 7,000-square-foot mansion with five fireplaces, 16th-century European doors and a Spanish-style courtyard, all on a 30-acre lot. Yet, in Mr. Talmo's estimation, this was chintzy. He also owned an adjacent 112 acres, and he tried to add those acres to his homestead. The court refused.   
   Another example:  
   Talmadge Wayne Tinsley, a Dallas, TX, developer, filed for chapter 7 bankruptcy in 1996 after he incurred $60 million in debt, largely bank loans. Under Texas law, Mr. Tinsley could keep only one acre of his 3.1-acre estate.  
   Texas recently had laws up to change that 1-acre limitation if you live in a city to which you can exempt from 8 to 10 acres. At any rate, he wanted to exempt more than that. He wanted the whole 3.1-acre estate.  
   His $3.5 million, magnolia-lined estate included a five-bedroom, six-and-a-half-bath mansion with two studies, a pool and a guest house. All that fit snugly onto one acre. 
   Yet, when the court asked Mr. Tinsley to mark off two acres to be sold to pay off his debts, his facetious offer was for the trustee to come by and peel off two feet around his entire property.  
   He signed off for that debt. At any rate, he was able to sell his house for $3.5 million, and he used the proceeds of this sale, after declaring bankruptcy, to write a $659,000 check to the IRS, whose debt still continues to be owed after bankruptcy, and another for $1.8 million to pay off his mortgage. That left him $700,000 after all his expenses, and he could spend that on whatever he wanted to, without paying legitimate people to whom he owed money. That is not a fair deal, I submit. 
   There are other examples of this. There is Dr. Carlos Garcia-Rivera, who filed for bankruptcy protection. He lives in Florida. The State law gives him an unlimited deduction, and he was able to keep a $500,000 residence, which is pictured in the newspaper article, free and clear. 
   The problem is this. A lot of people can see bankruptcy coming. They can see the problems coming down the road. They live in a State such as Alabama or New Jersey, where the laws don't give them these values. In fact, two-thirds of all the States limit your homestead value to $40,000 in equity. So what do they do? They can see the bankruptcy coming. They can move to a State such as Texas or Florida, buy a beautiful home on the beach, take every asset they have, quit paying any of the people to whom they owe money, collect all their money, put it in that house, and then file bankruptcy and say: You can't take my home. It is my homestead, and I don't have to give you anything. 
   That is a problem. That is a national problem, and it is a growing problem. We have increased bankruptcies. Lawyers are more sophisticated. People are more willing to move today than they used to be. 
   That is why Senator KOHL and I feel so strongly about this. 
   I want to mention a couple more important things. The New York Times, in an editorial in August of 1999, argued against protecting rich bankrupts and criticized this very provision in law. 
   There were other complaints made in previous remarks suggesting this change would require States to change their constitution or their existing State law. That is not the case. The homestead exemption in Texas or Florida would be valid for every other State law purpose the State chose to apply it for. It simply would not be valid in the Federal bankruptcy court if that law called for an exemption to exceed $100,000, the amount the Bankruptcy Commission, after 3 years' study, concluded was the appropriate amount. It certainly strikes me as a fair and legitimate amount. 
   This is not the sale price of the house but the equity in the house. If an individual owned a mansion with $500,000 of equity in that mansion, they would not be able to live in that mansion and stop paying their creditors, the people they duly and lawfully owed money to, but would be able to keep $100,000 of it. They could keep $100,000 in equity. They would end up better than a person who files bankruptcy in Alabama or most other States who have less than $100,000. We think that is fair, just, and appropriate and ought to be confronted. I know some believe it is somehow an advantage for a State to not have this cap, to have unlimited exemptions, but I argue it hurts local creditors in those States, too, because they are not being paid back their debts. 
   A man living in a mansion in downtown Dallas who is not paying his Dallas creditors and all the people he owes in Dallas, TX, he gets to live in the mansion, is not an advantage for Texas. For years, the Texas legislators, Members of Congress, have believed passionately they should defend this as being a part of their constitution. 
   I think that is a misunderstanding of the role of Federal bankruptcy law. The goal of a good bankruptcy law is to make sure a person who owes debts pays all he can, liquidates all his assets, is able to keep a reasonable home, and work in the future without having any debts, but that he not be able to abuse the system and defeat creditors who he could legitimately pay. 
   I enjoyed working with Senator KOHL. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, one thing we have raised is the situation of the farm person. 
   First of all, Senator GRASSLEY has been a champion of the new bankruptcy laws. And we have made those permanent in this bill to give added protections to farmers, unlike the kind of protections that are given a manager of a restaurant, a gas station, or a small factory that goes bankrupt. They have a number of good protections. 
   But what I want to say to you is that a person who owes a lot of debt, who has received legal benefits and owes money, and then goes into bankruptcy, will be able to keep up to $100,000 in equity. The house can be a $500,000 house. The farm can be $1 million farm--whatever. But the equity simply has to be no more than $100,000. I think that is as generous as we can possibly be. I don't see how we could be more generous than that. Why should a businessman, or any person, be able to have unlimited assets? 
   Let me make no mistake about it, the Hutchison amendment that is filed today would allow an individual in Texas or Florida to maintain a $50 million mansion and not pay the people they owe just debts to--$50 million in equity that they own and paid into that house, and not pay people they owe. That is the kind of disparity I do not believe we can accept and is what the Bankruptcy Commission has rejected. That is what professors have called a national scandal. 
   I have been pleased to work on this because I believe we owe it to the working Americans who go through bankruptcy, who will never ever have the possibility of claiming these kinds of great equities and do not live in mansions--I don't see why we need to be providing special protections for the rich in these circumstances. It is time to end this process. It is time for Congress to act. 
   I yield back my time and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator KOHL and I asked earlier this year for a GAO report on these cases. According to the Washington Post, ``Homestead exemptions aid well-off feud'':  
   Findings suggest the unlimited homestead exemption is not the popular shield it has often been cracked up to be but a convenient protection for a few affluent people.  
   Judge Edith Jones on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals from Texas said recently as a member of the Bankruptcy Commission:   
   I agree with cap supporters that debtors have used liberal homestead laws, like that of my home State Texas, to shelter large amounts of wealth from their creditors.  
   She went on to add:  
   In principle, I do not oppose a $100,000 cap on homestead exemptions, particularly if it were indexed to account for inflation.  
   This will be indexed, and I think Judge Jones is correct. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, great words of tribute and reverent appreciation are put on paper every year in anticipation of the arrival of November 11th. With a solemn heart I struggle to meet the challenge of delivering those words in a way that is both humble and befitting of America's heros. I offer these words in honor and in memory of every American who has answered the call to arms; for every American who has freely stepped forward under our Star Spangled Banner; and for every American who died in the name of freedom. These men and women are among America's greatest heros. 
   Our great nation has flourished and enjoys unprecedented prosperity to this day because of our veterans' willingness to give themselves in service to the nation. For many this willingness meant sacrificing their lives so others might live free. 
   There are those among us who question whether or not our younger generations will prove, when the nation beckons, to be just as committed to the preservation of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness as those we honor every November 11 proved to be. 
   I wonder how many Americans had those same doubts before the outbreak of WWI, WWII, Korea, Vietnam, or Desert Storm? I wonder how many who did go had dreamed that they would ever be called into the horror that is found on the battlefield? 
   Surely there were doubters. Surely there was apprehension and fear. But, they answered freedom's call. Our national story and the story of the American people is one of amazing courage in difficult times, and a proud tradition of triumph in the face of our enemies here and abroad. America has always been ready to act. The footprints left and the blood spilled by our soldiers, airmen, marines, sailors, and coast guardsmen around the world remain as a testament to the indomitable American spirit, our collective faith in the power of freedom, and to the promise of a great future. 
   Over and over again, history has proven those who doubted America's resolve to be dead wrong. I am confident that our nation's future remains bright if we continue to exhibit the same steadfastness as our forefather's--never forsaking the gift of freedom that so many have given us. 
   Inspiration can be found in many ways. Just the other day I was looking over Medal of Honor citations of some of Alabama's greatest heros. Taken together they represent a relatively small group of Alabamians but provide one of the greatest inspirations of hope for America I can find. 
   Reading those citations made me think about how many people might have doubted their commitment back then? How many people came in contact with those heros never realizing they would one day prove themselves worthy to wear the Medal of Honor? I choose to be excited by those thoughts because America might well be called upon again to defend the world against tyranny and evil, and I have no doubt that our men and women in uniform would again stand with the same steadfast resolve exhibited by those we honor today. I take great solace in knowing that the patriotism and heroism of Americans has been a constant for hundreds of years and will continue to be in the future. 
   America's veterans have made ours a great country. Hardly a person in America is not associated in some way  with a veteran. I hope you will thank them today for having answered the call to serve, and for setting the footprints for our future. They have indeed shown us the way into the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Reserving the right to object, will this mean we will have an opportunity this afternoon for debate by those who would be opposed to those amendments? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, in response to the remarks of the Senator from Wisconsin, I will not be able to support this amendment, although I do believe he has put some parts in it that  make it superior to what had originally been offered in this regard. 
   I will share with Members some of the reasons I believe we need to reject this amendment and why this is a classic problem with the current bankruptcy law that we need to fix. We haven't had a major reform of bankruptcy law since 1978. It is time for us to look at it to see how it is working out in the real world. Are there abusers? Are there loopholes, with clever lawyers zealously representing their clients able to utilize some of these loopholes and situations to abuse the fair workings of the bankruptcy court? 
   Remember, a bankruptcy reform bill sets the law for an entire court. That is the court that handles bankruptcy. 
   Senator GRASSLEY's bill, with this amendment involving landlord/tenant that I helped sponsor, simply clarifies existing law. It simply makes real and more effectual the existing law. The amendment offered by Mr. FEINGOLD changes the current law; it moves us in a direction that will enhance and encourage litigation and delay and undermine the rule of law as we ought to see it in the country. There are some good lawyers out there practicing bankruptcy law. That is all they do. They know how to work the system and work it well. 
   Under current law, if a landlord files an eviction against a tenant before the bankruptcy petition is filed by the tenant, that eviction can continue. If an eviction is filed by a landlord based on the fact that his lease has terminated--he has a 1-year lease; we are now in month 14, he files to evict the tenant; he can't just go and throw him out physically--he files a lawsuit in State court to evict the tenant, he will prevail in bankruptcy court. That is not the kind of action the bankruptcy court will permanently stay. 
   What is the problem? Why are we having a problem? The problem is that when a person files for bankruptcy, all litigation is stayed; there is an automatic stay. So if you file for bankruptcy in Federal court, any lawsuits filed against you in the State court system for collection of your debts, including landlord/tenant, are automatically stayed. So what happens is, the landlord has to hire an attorney, send him down to Federal bankruptcy court, at great expense to himself, to file a motion and ask for a hearing to lift the stay and to say to that bankruptcy judge: Judge, we don't need you to stay this eviction case because the person is clearly in violation of his lease; he hasn't paid his rent, and/or the lease is terminated. It is time for him to be removed from his premises. He has to argue that. 
   Uniformly, the courts will rule in his favor, and he can then take the matter to State court. In State court, the tenant has all the rights and privileges he has always had to defend himself against eviction. He gets a hearing in court. He just doesn't get a double hearing in Federal court and State court. 
   This is a great cost to the landlords who have to go through this process. It also deals with landlords who have just a few apartment complexes or maybe just one and maybe the lease is coming up and they don't want to just occupy the premises themselves. Maybe they have already executed a lease with another tenant to take over this apartment. All of a sudden they find the tenant won't leave under his lease. Then he files a petition in bankruptcy. 
   The court stays the efforts to evict and months go by. That is the kind of problem we are having. 
   How does this abuse occur? We have seen advertisements and pulled them from phone books and newspapers. Here is one: ``Seven months free rent.'' It goes on to talk about how you can file bankruptcy--it has 7 calendar months here--and not be evicted for up to 7 months, even though your lease may have already expired. You have a 12-month lease, and that means you can stay there 19 months by the time you can get around to getting somebody removed from the premises, when you may have already agreed with your son, daughter, or some other possible tenant, that they can take over the property at a given time. 
   The Feingold amendment, as I understand it, would protect the landlord who wanted to move in himself but not from leasing it to somebody else or letting a family member take over the property. 
   Here is another one to a tenant organization, a flier that was passed out: ``We have more moves, when it comes to preventing your eviction, than Magic Johnson. Call us,'' the law firm says, ``and we will take care of you.'' ``Need more time to move? Stop this eviction from 1 to 6 months.'' 
   And there are others we have seen here, quite a number of those kinds of activities. So I say to you that this is not just an imagined problem; it is very real. And still attorneys are advertising around the country, and they are disrupting legitimate landlord-tenant situations. It is an abuse. 
   Eventually, under the current law, when they go to bankruptcy court and ask that the stay be lifted so they can continue with their eviction, they always win--but they always lose. They win on the law eventually, but they lose because they have been delayed in taking control of their own property and because they have had to pay an extensive legal fee. This is the kind of thing that is driving people mad who are dealing with bankruptcy on a regular basis. They are coming to us in Congress and saying: JEFF, these things are not healthy; they are frustrating, and they are hurting our ability to commercially operate in an effective way. 
   So how often does it happen? I would like to read a report from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office--just in one county in America. This is what the L.A. County Sheriff's Office said. They estimate that 3,886 residents--3,886--filed for bankruptcy in 1996 alone--in 1 year, in that county--to prevent the execution of a valid court-ordered eviction notice. Think about that. You can even have won your eviction case in court, and an order has been issued to have this person evicted, his or her lease is up, and this stay in bankruptcy stops that. 
   It goes on to say that 7 percent of the eviction cases handled by the Los Angeles County sheriff's department are stayed as a result of bankruptcy filings. Losses are estimated at nearly $6 million per year. They advertise in many of the publications ``Live Rent Free.'' That is really what has been happening. ``More moves than Magic Johnson'' to prevent a legitimate execution of an eviction order. 
   Remember, we are not saying a landlord can just go remove somebody. Every State has protection for renters. They have to go to court and get a valid eviction order. Many times, they are entitled to other delays before they can be evicted. So I think that is significant. 
   Another matter that I think is important is the quote from 
   a judge in the Central District of California who is concerned about these cases. He sees them very frequently. Judge Zurzolo in the Central District of California had this to say about bankruptcy and efforts to delay eviction. This is a quote from his opinion in court:  
   The bankruptcy courts are flooded with chapter 7 and chapter 13 bankruptcy cases filed solely for the purpose of delaying unlawful detainer eviction. Inevitably and swiftly following the filing of these bankruptcy cases is the filing of motions for relief of stay by the landlords. They have hired a lawyer and they have to file a motion for relief of stay. These landlords are temporarily thwarted by this abuse of the bankruptcy court system.  
   This judge calls it an abuse of the system. These relief from stay motions are rarely contested and never lost. That is, the lawyer who filed the bankruptcy rarely even contests them, and never are they ruled against the landlord. It is never ruled against the landlord, but they are filed and delay has already occurred. He says this:  
   Bankruptcy courts in our district hear dozens of these stay motions weekly, none of which involve any justiciable conflicts of fact and law.  
   So it is pretty clear. We have a national problem that ought to be fixed. We can fix it. 
   What does the current legislation, the bankruptcy reform bill, say about it? It simply says that the automatic stay is not available when an eviction proceeding has already started prior to the filing of a bankruptcy. In other words, if the eviction has started before, you don't get that stay. If an eviction proceeding is based on the fact that the lease is already terminated, you don't get a stay. Otherwise, you would have the same stay. This will stop a lot of wasted effort, a lot of unnecessary costs, a lot of frustration for tenants and those kinds of problems.  
   I believe this law is good public policy--the way it is written in the Grassley bankruptcy bill--because a bankruptcy court only has control over the assets of the person filing bankruptcy. A lease that has already expired, by its very definition, is not an asset. A lease that has clearly been terminated because of nonpayment of rent is not an asset of the person who is filing bankruptcy. Therefore, the bankruptcy court does not have legal power to control an asset that is not theirs; it is the landlord's. So that is why the courts always rule in favor of the landlord in these cases. The landlord may have another tenant who would want to take over, and that tenant's life may be disrupted if the landlord can't deliver the premises. 
   In conclusion, the changes suggested in the Feingold amendment alter current law substantially. They allow the tenant to stay in the premises on which the lease has expired and for which they have been in default for lack of payment, or other reasons. This is unacceptable, and it is not sound law. You ought not to have a law that says you can stay in the premises when the lease has expired, for Heaven's sake. This would be the Federal bankruptcy court overruling State law that says when your lease expires, you are out. If we can't have honesty in the effectuation of contracts in America, we are in sad shape. I believe this is a poor amendment and it should not be approved. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991109</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I know some young people get in trouble by overspending their credit cards. A lot of adults get in trouble for that. The fact is, I don't believe we, as part of an effort to reform the bankruptcy court, need to be, at this moment, offering amendments; that ought to be done in the Banking Committee. There have been complaints about the fact that credit card solicitations are mailed out to people. Let me say this: We have had a banking bill in which Members have been outraged that banks won't loan to high-risk people, and they are complaining about not making enough loans. It is odd, striking, and shocking to me that poor people are being told they ought not to be even offered credit cards. Some say they are being mailed credit cards. Not so. It is a Federal law, a crime, and it is prohibited to mail credit cards unrequested to somebody. What they are receiving is offers of credit cards. They have to fill out forms and show their income and all that, and they may or may not get it once they fill it out. But to say you can't even offer a person below the poverty level a credit card is amazing to me. Credit cards are good for poor people. 
   If somebody has a credit card and his tire blows up and he needs a set of tires for his car and doesn't have $200 cash, what is he going to do, park it until he can save up the money? With a credit card, he can do that and pay it off as he can. Credit cards are valuable things for poor people, for heaven's sake. 
   For young people, we have this vision that an 18-year-old at college who is being funded by mama runs up a big debt on his 
   credit card. The truth is, a lot of people are not doing that. A lot of people who are 18, 19, and 20 years old will be affected by this legislation, and they may be married, out on their own, going to college during the night, and working during the day. They have to get mama and daddy to sign on before they can even get the credit card they may need to help them through the unexpected expenses that may occur for them. 
   The suggestion that somehow poor people are being oppressed by being offered credit cards is beyond my comprehension. In fact, one of the good things that is occurring is that we are seeing some competition now. Rates are coming down. People have alternatives. They can cancel a card and get a better card. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask if I might offer briefly a second-degree amendment to this and then return the floor to the Senator from Illinois. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I send a second-degree amendment to the KOHL amendment to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for his amendment and the remarks he made. There are some good questions. We do want to help those who are in nursing homes and so forth. 
   I am somewhat nervous and troubled by the breadth of the language because economics is a fairly crystal science in a lot of ways. This just says you want  to help a dependent. In effect, what he is saying by this amendment is that a debtor who owes people who he has gotten benefits from and promised to pay them money, he won't pay them; he will be able to take money they should get and apply it to the family members to whom he wants to give it. 
   I don't know whether that is a good proposal for this bill or not. As he said, maybe we can't fix health care in the bankruptcy bill. Maybe not. We will be glad to review that, and I am sure Senator GRASSLEY will. 
   I wish to make a number of points about some of the issues that have been raised because I do so strongly believe this piece of legislation is good. I believe it is going to make a major step forward in improving bankruptcy and having more fairness, eliminating these complaints that all of us are, in fact, hearing from people in our States who have been abused by the process in bankruptcy. Many times they blame the lawyers, and sometimes so do I. But the truth is, lawyers are using the laws we pass. It is our responsibility, if the law isn't working, to come to this floor and present legislation to fix it. 
   Over 70 percent of the people believe we need to reform bankruptcy law. This isn't a special interest piece of legislation. But I will say this: There is no doubt that banks 
   and others who regularly go to bankruptcy court see what is going on there on a daily basis. They have every right to call to our attention what they see are problems and injustices. We have a responsibility, if that is so, to fix it. That is fundamental. That is what American law is all about. What we are doing with the bankruptcy bill is trying to reform and improve bankruptcy law, which has had no real analysis since 1978. We have had more than double the filings in bankruptcy since 1978. Indeed, we have had a virtual doubling of bankruptcy filings since 1990, during that period of time. 
   Larry Summers, the present Secretary of the Treasury, stated that bankruptcy does, in fact, increase interest rates. Businesses have to charge more when more people are bankrupting and not paying back their debts. It raises the interest rates. The present Secretary of the Treasury understands that, and any economist would. 
   Senator HATCH, chairman of our Judiciary Committee, has pointed out the average cost per family of the debts wiped out in bankruptcy per year is $400. What that means is that somebody is not paying their debt and, in fact, is shifting the burden to other people to pay them for them. Sure, bankruptcy is a historic part of American law. It is something we never want to eliminate. We want to protect that right. It is mentioned in the Constitution but not provided for in detail. Our Founding Fathers recognized we ought to have a bankruptcy system. It has always been a part of the Federal court system, and we, as the Congress, have the responsibility to analyze it periodically to see what abuses and problems are occurring and, where there are problems, to fix them and see if we can't make the system work better. 
   Now they say we want to talk about credit cards. That is an issue we may want to talk about. 
   But this piece of legislation was designed to deal with the bankruptcy court system. We have banking committees and others that are dealing with these credit disclosure acts and the kind of bank loans and interest rates credit cards ought to utilize. 
   In fact, the chairman of the Banking Committee is not happy we are down here amending banking law on a bankruptcy bill that has nothing to do with banking law. Rightly, he should be. I don't think we need to distract ourselves on that. Frankly, I think we ought to just confront this issue that is being raised. 
   Bankruptcy is the fault of all of the credit card companies, and they are giving too much money to people who are marginal credit risks. They are allowing them to have credit cards--horrible things they are doing, allowing a poor person to have a credit card. That is bad. 
   We just had a banking bill that almost went down over a debate among those liberals in this body who wanted to ensure that the banks lend more money to at-risk, high-risk borrowers. That is a good thing, not a bad thing. If they weren't lending money to poorer people, weren't allowing them to have credit cards, then they would be much condemned for it, and rightly so. Ninety-nine percent of people who have credit cards pay their debt--99 percent. The banks are not lending substantial sums of money to people who can't pay their debt. 
   But I will tell you this. If you are living on a fixed income, you have a $25,000-a-year income, you have a family, you are trying to do things, and the tire blows out on your car, you are glad you have a credit card so you can pay for it to be fixed, so you don't have to sit it on the blocks, or you can get 
   your momma, or somebody, to lend you the money to fix the tire. And it allows you to pay it back over a period of time. 
   It is an odd thing to me that people who think and claim they care about the poor are going to be complaining because credit card companies allow them to have credit cards so they can borrow money when they need to. It becomes a critical thing for them. 
   Then there is a complaint that somehow this legislation is unfair to women and children. That is a stunning event. From day 1, Senator HATCH and Senator GRASSLEY made a commitment to make a historic change in the way bankruptcy treats child support and alimony. There is a list of things that have to be paid first when you pay off your debts in bankruptcy. They call them priorities. Child support and alimony used to be seventh on that list. From day 1--this bankruptcy bill has proceeded for over 2 years now--we have raised child support and alimony to No. 1, ahead of lawyer fees. That is historic. They are complaining, too. But we made a commitment that nothing would take priority in bankruptcy court over child support and alimony. 
   It amazes me. I am astounded that those who want to kill this legislation, for reasons I cannot fathom, come down here and complain that the reason they are against it is that it hurts children. This is a historic move to provide unprecedented protections and priorities for children. 
   I find that a stunning argument to make. 
   They argue that this is going to penalize a single woman with a child who has financial troubles and needs to go into bankruptcy, and that somehow that woman with that child would be required to pay back some of their debt when they wouldn't have been required to pay some of their debt under the old law, because fundamentally what this bill says is, if you can pay back some of your debts, you ought to. What is wrong with that? If you can pay back some of your debts, you ought to pay some of them back. That is fairness. That is one of the biggest abuses we have. We have young yuppies making $100,000 a year in income, running up a bunch of debts, and then they just wipe them out and start all over again. That is not right. If they can pay back some of those debts, they ought to pay them. 
   The question is, Won't this abuse women with children at home who have financial difficulties? Let me explain this simply. If there is a mother and a child, a family of two, the median income in America is $40,000. If they make less than $40,000, they will be able to file bankruptcy just as they always have. If two of them are making $40,000 a year--which is a pretty solid income--or below, they will not be subject to these rules that require those who can pay to pay. If they make over $40,000, the judge will have the responsibility to evaluate their debt, evaluate their expenses, and see if they can pay back some. If they can pay back 25 percent, or 30 percent, or 50 percent, or maybe 100 percent, if their income is $100,000 a year, what is wrong with that? 
   Should a single woman be given preference over a single man with a child? 
   We have to have simple rules that are fair and objective. All I am saying is, it would take a family with a substantial income before the principles of law would apply that they would have to pay back any money. 
   There is a suggestion that somehow because a father is paying alimony and he might pay back some of his debt, he will 
   not be able to pay his child support. But as we know, he is required to pay his child support first. And no plan in bankruptcy can be approved by a bankruptcy judge unless this gives priority to repayment of past due child  support and paying current child support. That is a bogus argument. 
   This bill requires the judge, before he approves a bankruptcy payback plan, to give priority to the payback of child support and alimony. In fact, it will strengthen the ability of children to receive the alimony payment because instead of walking in and filing bankruptcy under chapter 7 and just wiping out all of his debt and starting fresh, the deadbeat dad will be under the control of the bankruptcy court, under chapter 13, and will have to report his income on a regular basis. If he is not paying that, he can be disciplined through the bankruptcy court. 
   That is not a good argument, I would suggest. 
   There is a study by a group of professors who said only 4 percent of the people filing bankruptcy could pay even 25 percent of their debt. In that instance, if that is true--and I doubt that; I think the figure is a good bit higher than that but not a lot higher. I am not saying it is a huge number. Maybe it is 15, 20, or 10 percent. But those 10 percent who can pay it, those 4 percent who can pay their debts, why shouldn't they pay them? That is what we are saying. The law will not make them pay if they can't pay. If their income is below the median income, they won't have to pay back the debts at all. 
   I think that is not an argument that is important to us today. 
   There is another complaint about mailing credit cards. I heard a lot of people say, I get credit cards in the mail. They are not getting credit cards in the mail. If they are, they ought to call the Federal State law enforcement because it is illegal to send somebody a credit card they haven't asked for. What they are receiving in the mail from credit card companies are solicitations or offerings for credit cards. 
   I think that is probably good because I don't like those high interest rates on credit cards. I shop around. I don't like paying 18 percent interest. I hope most people can avoid running up any significant debt because that is a high interest rate. But one of the good things that has happened of late is, credit cards are getting competitive. They are offering us to join up: Convert to our credit card, have no interest for so many months, and you are going to have a lower interest rate than you had before. They are getting some competition in the credit card industry. 
   We are going to come around now and pass a law in this Congress that says a credit card company can't write you a letter and offer you 15-percent interest instead of your current 17-percent interest? What kind of idea is that? 
   We have some poor economic thinking in this Congress. 
   By the way, as the Secretary of the Treasury under President Clinton has indicated, defaults on payments in bankruptcy drive up interest rates for everyone. It was suggested we have to make these reforms in amendments because old people are not able to pay their debts. Old people are not the ones filing bankruptcy. The figures cited were older people over 55. Filers over 55 have gone up almost 120 percent since 1990, but during that time all filings have gone up 100 percent. Always the older citizens of the country are the least likely to file bankruptcy. They are the most responsible and keep up with their books and manage their debts well. That is not the biggest problem in bankruptcy. Check the ages and it won't be the people 65 years old and up filing bankruptcy in America today. They are responsible. They have learned how to manage their money. 
   One amendment is to crack down on subprime lenders, banks that loan to poor people. We have legislation attacking banks for redlining areas and not loaning to poor people. We had a big fight over it on the banking bill. The people receiving these loans were viewed as vulnerable and preyed upon. Sometimes they can be vulnerable and sometimes I guess they can be preyed upon. However, one doesn't have to take a loan if they don't think it is better. If a person has $10,000 credit card debt at 18-percent interest and they can get a loan at a bank at 12.5 percent to pay it off and they don't have a good credit rating, but 12.5 percent is better than 18 percent. People make those choices daily. I don't know as part of bankruptcy court reform that we ought to try to reform banking law. That ought to be thought through more carefully. 
   This bill is essentially the bill that passed 97-1 in this body. It is essentially the bill that passed the House last year by a veto-proof majority. It has already passed the House again this year by a veto-proof majority. There is bipartisan support for it. It is beyond me why we can't have a final vote and get it passed. I have only been in this body a little over 2 1/2 years, and I don't see how we have a bill with this kind of support. It is frustrating trying to get a final vote and do what the people of this country want done. We debated it. They said we have not had hearings. We had hearings for years on it. Everybody knows the issues. We have had staff meetings in excruciating detail. 
   Senator GRASSLEY has been more than generous in working with those who have concerns about the bill. He has met with the staff, met with the White House. My staff is meeting with a representative from the White House today trying to work out the language on one or two issues that we think we can reach an agreement on. There have been great efforts to make some changes. Why some want to spin this as a bill that is unfair is beyond my comprehension. We had this year a joint House-Senate Committee on bankruptcy--the first time in history--to consider those issues. 
   My vote is not for sale. I am not going to support a bankruptcy bill or any other bill because of any political contribution. I am offended by those who come on the floor and suggest that is what we are doing. I am prepared to debate any issue on this bill on the merits of what is good for public policy in this country. I am getting sick and tired of sanctimonious Senators suggesting they are above all the rest of us and everybody is corrupt--because industry gives political 
   contributions to both parties. That is not right. 
   Let's talk about what is wrong with this bill. Let's talk about why something in here is unfair, if it is. If it is unfair, we will fix it. I am not happy with that. I think we need to do better. 
   Mr. President, 70 percent of the people are in favor of this legislative reform. There is overwhelming popular support for a system the reform of which is long overdue. We can do it. I don't blame the people who are in the process of dealing with it every year for being angry. They have a right to be. There are multiple loopholes in this bankruptcy system that we have seen. We have seen how they work and we can fix them. 
   One of the driving factors behind increased filings of bankruptcy is advertising by attorneys. Watch their ads. They don't say: Come on down and we will file bankruptcy. It says: Got problems with your debts? Come talk to me. 
   You talk to them and the next thing you know a person who has never been given an opportunity for a different opinion has suggested they can pay a certain fee and file bankruptcy and they will take care of him; all their debts will be wiped out. And the debtor says: You mean that, really? And the lawyer says: Absolutely; that is the law. 
   We passed that law. We talk about needs-based reform. What we are saying is, if you can't pay your debts, you have an income below the median income in America, $50,000 for a family of four--that is what the median income is--if you can't pay, you can have traditional benefits of chapter 7 and wipe out your debts, if that is what you choose. However, if you make above that, the judge can order you to pay some of the money back. I think that is only fair. I believe that will eliminate some of the abuses in the bankruptcy system. 
   Another amendment Senator KOHL and I have offered deals with what I consider another abuse in bankruptcy. I have an example from the New York Times article of last year about some people who used and abused the bankruptcy system. 
   The First American Bank and Trust Company in Lake Worth, Fla., closed in 1989, and its chief executive, Roy Talmo, filed for personal bankruptcy in 1993. Despite owing $6.8 million, Mr. Talmo was able to exempt a bounty of assets. 
   During much of the bankruptcy proceedings, Mr. Talmo drove around Miami in a 1960 Rolls-Royce and tended the grounds of his $800,000 tree farm in Boynton Beach. Never one to slum it, Mr. Talmo had a 7,000-square-foot mansion with five fireplaces, 16th-century European doors and a Spanish-  style courtyard all on a 30-acre lot. Yet in Mr. Talmo's estimation, this was chintzy. He also owned an adjacent 112 acres, and he tried to add those acres to his homestead. The court refused. 
   Mr. Talmo, though, now looks back as a more humbled man, ``Bankruptcy is something I don't want to do again,'' Mr. Talmo said. ``Mine is a sad story. I have my home, but otherwise I was wiped out.''  
   This is the way it works: The former commissioner of baseball--lots of prominent people do this--runs up a big bunch of bills; the business fails; he owes a lot of people money. So you say: What can I do? I can move to Florida; I can move to Texas; I can buy a big mansion, put all my money there on the Atlantic coast or the gulf coast or the Texas coast or wherever, and I will just put everything I have liquid right now in that house. I will claim it as my homestead and they cannot take it. 
   Then, after I have wiped out all these people I legitimately and lawfully owe, I can sell my multimillion-dollar mansion and live high the rest of my life. That is what this law allows. It is proper and legal in the American bankruptcy system today, and we ought to put a stop to it. 
   People say it is States rights. Not so. Bankruptcy is totally a Federal court proceeding. It is referred to in the U.S. Constitution. It is totally a Federal court proceeding and we have, as a Federal Congress, the right to set the standards as we choose them for a homestead exemption. In my view, this is an abuse. It allows people to move in interstate commerce and to defeat totally legitimate creditors and live like kings and not pay back people they owe. 
   I am going to mention one other example in the New York Times article:  
   Even when residents of Texas and Florida sell their homes and pay off their mortgages during bankruptcy, they can still walk away rich. 
   Talmadge Wayne Tinsley, a Dallas developer, filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in 1996 after he incurred $60 million in debt, largely bank loans. Under Texas law, Mr. Tinsley could keep only one acre of his 3.1-acre estate, a rule that did not sit well with him. His $3.5 million, magnolia-lined estate included a five-bedroom, six-and-a-half-bath mansion with two studies, a pool and a guest house. All that fit snugly onto one acre. 
   Yet when the court asked Mr. Tinsley to mark of two acres to be sold to pay off his debts, his facetious offer was for the trustee to come by and peel off two feet around his entire property. The court refused, forcing a sale, but by Mr. Tinsley still did rather well for himself. 
   He sold his house in October for $3.5 million using the proceeds to write a $659,000 check to the Internal Revenue Service and another for $1.8 million to pay off the mortgage. That left $700,000 for Mr. Tinsley after closing costs and other expenses were deducted from the proceeds, according to court officials. About $58 million of his debts were left unpaid. 
   I believe there are abuses there. I believe the Kohl-Sessions amendment will deal with it. It is not a question of States rights. The Federal bankruptcy courts have allowed States to set the standard, but it has never been a problem, that the Federal court could set a national standard if they chose. 
   We, by this amendment, say you could only have $100,000 in equity in your home--not the value but in the equity of your home--and be able to keep it; whereas, over two-thirds of the States limit it to $40,000. So we are just moving down some of those States with extreme laws to a reasonable level. I believe that will eliminate one of the most glaring abuses in the bankruptcy system. 
   I am pleased to be joined now by the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator HATCH, who has worked hard to bring this legislation to fruition. I am proud to serve on his committee. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished ranking member for his comments. I have enjoyed working with him on moving this bill. 
   I thought I would mention a couple of things that are particularly valuable in the bill that may not be that clearly understood by most people. 
   I had the privilege of offering a credit counseling amendment early on in this process a year and a half ago. I offered that after having spent almost an entire day at a nonprofit credit counseling agency in my hometown of Mobile, AL. I was extraordinarily impressed with what they do. 
   They have individuals who come to them in financial trouble. They have a rule: They bring in the entire family. They sit down in a nice conference room, and they go over all the debts that are owed and the income that is coming in. They sit down and see if they can't help that family work their way out of the debt in which they find themselves. They have established over the years respect with financial institutions, such as credit card companies and banks. Those institutions will frequently reduce the amount of money they demand that is owed. They will reduce the interest rate that may be paid, if this person will make a good-faith effort to reorganize their finances and pay what they can pay on the debt. 
   This is working all over America. In fact, there are credit counseling agencies in virtually every town and city in the Nation. They are serving a valuable purpose. They sit down with individuals and find out what is wrong with the family. 
   It may not be known to everyone, but it is well known in professional circles that financial disputes are probably the most common cause of divorce in America. We know many people are in financial trouble because of alcoholism. Many people are in financial trouble because of gambling. Gambling is driving an increase in bankruptcy in a number of areas in this country. Some people simply have an inability to discipline themselves. One member of the family feels as though the other one is getting an advantage on them in spending, so they spend more and vice versa. They go on a downward spiral of financial management. We have individuals who have mental health problems who are simply not able to be disciplined about their money. 
   Credit counseling is a tremendous thing. They care about the families with whom they are dealing. They help work with them to discover a way to work out their problems. It is a good thing. 
   What this bankruptcy bill requires is that someone, before they file bankruptcy, at least go and talk to a credit counseling agency, to meet with them and see if that agency may have the ability to solve their problem short of filing bankruptcy. 
   Most people do, in fact, want to pay their debts, and they work hard to try to pay their debts. If they are given this kind of option, where a company will reduce their interest or reduce their debt, they work out a payment plan. The family signs onto it, the mother and father, son and daughter. They can restore pride and confidence. 
   They can learn something about how to manage money. They may well receive marital counseling, mental health treatment, Gamblers Anonymous references, or other help. 
   What happens in bankruptcy today is that somebody is sued for a debt they haven't paid. They don't know what to do. They have seen on the TV, or in the newspaper: Call this lawyer if you have debt problems. So they call the lawyer and he sits down and says: The thing for you to do is file bankruptcy. There will be a $1,000 fee, and you will wipe out all your debts. They will say something like: How am I going to pay you? I don't have $1,000. He will say something like: You won't have to pay any more payments on your credit card. In fact, go buy everything you can with your credit card because we are going to wipe out all those debts when we file, unless they are short-term debts concurrent with the bankruptcy filing. The lawyer will say: You do that and pay me, and we will wipe out everything. That is what you ought to do. 
   The lawyer has a financial incentive there. He spends no time with the family. Oftentimes, they tell me the paralegals and staff people fill out all the forms and the paperwork; the lawyer hardly even meets the client. He goes down in court and calls out their name and they come up to him, and he introduces them to the judge. They do the bankruptcy and they go home. And nothing has been done about the fundamental problem in that family, or the lack of discipline which is often the case that causes bankruptcy. Many bankruptcies--a substantial percentage --are due to very severe events. But a substantial portion are also caused by a gradual descent into debt, and a lack of discipline, or some sort of emotional or psychological problem. 
   I believe if we can give them the choice to go through credit counseling and work out ways to deal with their debts as a family, we will do something good for this country. How many would choose this? I don't know. But most people who have been sued or are getting credit calls over debts they owe from all kinds of debtors and creditors get nervous and don't know what to do. They are told file bankruptcy and that is what they do. They think they have no choice. I believe we can do better than that. This bill will lead us in that direction. I believe it will be a historic step for this system. 
   We also have people who are filing repeat bankruptcies, people who file bankruptcy again and again. This bill will attempt to reduce that. More than 10 percent of the people who file for bankruptcy have previously filed. In some Federal court districts in America, 40 percent of the consumer bankruptcies are repeat filers. They learned the first time it worked, so they do it  again. They haven't learned the discipline and effort that it takes to maintain an honest credit rating. 
   So one of the things this act requires is that before a person is discharged from bankruptcy, they will have to have some counseling on how to manage their debt, and perhaps they will not come back again. I think that would be a good thing. 
   We are concerned about fraud in bankruptcy. The forms are basically self-proving. They are accepted by the court. Whatever a person says their income is and their ability to repay is, it is basically accepted and rarely verified. We find that is a problem. So they will have to file documents with their bankruptcy file. It will include a Federal tax return, monthly income and 
   expenses, their actual wage stubs, how much money they are actually making, so it will allow a judge to decide properly what the right procedure is under the circumstances. It allows that a person to whom a debt is owed gets notice--a small businessman, garage owner, furniture store, or a doctors office gets a note from the court that Billy Jones is filing for bankruptcy, and you are notified as a creditor. This says you don't have to have a lawyer, but you can, in fact, go on your own and defend your interests in the bankruptcy court. You may need a lawyer, in which case you can hire a lawyer. But it will clearly make it known that creditors who have clearly proven debt can go down to the bankruptcy court and establish that debt and defend their interest, without having to spend more money on an attorney than perhaps the debt is worth. I think that would be good. 
   We are dealing with a huge increase in personal bankruptcies--1.4 million, a 94-percent increase, since 1990. In many States in this country, in many Federal bankruptcy districts, many people are filing under chapter 13. When you file under chapter 13, what you do is you go to court and you say: I owe all this money, judge. I have this much income and I would like to work my way out of it. These people are suing me. I am getting phone calls at home. I want you to have a stay, to stop them all from suing me. Take my money and tell me who to pay and I will pay my money, every bit I can, to pay off these debts. 
   That is a preferable way, in my opinion, for a person to deal with financial difficulties, if they can't pay their bills. Some people are so far in debt that it will be hopeless; straight bankruptcy chapter 7 is for them. 
   Under the present state of the law, amazing though it might be, there is no standard on that. The debtor himself can choose whether to go into chapter 13 or chapter 7. He can choose whether or not to pay off his debts. In Alabama, I am proud to say, in the northern district of Alabama, over 60 percent of the individual filers choose to file chapter 13 and repay a large portion of their debt. That is something I think reflects well on the people of the northern district of Alabama. The numbers are high in the other districts in Alabama--over 50 percent, choose Chapter 13. But we know in certain other districts in this country, the number of people filing chapter 13 is under 10 percent. Many of these people have high incomes and could, in fact, easily pay off all or part of their debt. 
   So that is why we have said in this legislation that if your income is above the median income, which for a family of two is $40,000, and for a family of four, over $50,000--if you are making above the median income, then you ought to be considered by the judge for repayment of as much of your debt as you can under the chapter 13 bankruptcy. So for the first time we will have a realistic way for a judge to objectively analyze these debtors, to see if they can pay back some of their debts. 
   That is why Senator HATCH says the average bankruptcy costs the average family $400 per year. When people don't pay their debts, somebody else has to pay them. It drives up the cost of business, the interest rates at the bank, and it drives up the charges the furniture store is going to make, or that the doctor office has to charge, to come out ahead if people are not paying their debts. It is that simple. 
   Paying your debt is a big deal. If we ever get to the point in this country where people don't feel like they have to pay debts back and they can wipe them out whenever they want to, we will have endangered the economic strength and commercial vitality of our Nation. Make no mistake about it. Our legal system and our economic system is based on honesty and integrity and responsibility. People pay their taxes based on their own calculations. They add up the numbers and they write that check to the Federal Government. That is why taxes ought to be low because when we ask too much of people they start cheating; they feel justified in cheating. We have relatively low taxes compared to other nations, and we have the lowest amount of cheating in the world. 
   We are making some important progress with this legislation. It will help us economically because, as the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Summers, has said, bankruptcy costs do add to interest rates. Everybody will pay higher interest rates if the bankruptcy filings are up. If bankruptcies are down, interest rates can drop. 
   It will be passed on to the consumer. It ultimately always is. 
   I wish to express my appreciation to Senator GRASSLEY, who has worked so hard on this legislation. He has listened to everybody concerned. He has spent an extraordinary number of hours with the members of the Democratic leadership and members of the committee on both sides of the aisle. He has worked with them to achieve a bill that is responsive to virtually every complaint that can be thought up. 
   Essentially this same bill passed this body 97 to 1 last year. It passed the House with over 300 votes. Why we couldn't get it finally passed last time is beyond my comprehension. It was nothing more than a bunch of obstructive tactics. I can't accept the complaint and refuse to accept the argument that women and children are somehow being abused under this act when every objective analysis would indicate that we are making a historic move toward providing the greater protection that has ever been provided to alimony and child support payments. That is absolutely false. Why people tend to want to attack this bill to delay its passage and frustrate us in this effort is beyond me. 
   I believe we are eliminating abuses in the system. For example, I point out a landlord who leases an apartment to a tenant; that tenant's lease is for 1 year, that year is up, and he owes the landlord money. The landlord seeks to move him out because he is going to rent the apartment to somebody else. That tenant can file for bankruptcy and stay, or stop, any lawsuits for eviction. Months can go by. And the landlord has to hire an attorney to go to bankruptcy court to try to get the ``stay'' lifted--that is what they call it--on filing the eviction notice so they can go forward with it. This bill would say if your lease is up, you can continue with your case. Eventually the landlord always wins, but often it takes months to get a final hearing, and it will cost him a good deal of money and attorney's fees. 
   There are many abuses such as this in the system. Those kinds of things ought to be eliminated. 
   We have had the experience of the existing system since 1978. We have not given it the kind of overhaul it needs. We have completed that now. I am proud of this legislation. I know that Senator HATCH, who chairs the Judiciary Committee and has worked extraordinarily hard on it, also shares that view. 
   I am also pleased to have the support and leadership of Senator TORRICELLI and the ranking member of the subcommittee. He has worked hard for this bill. He understands the economics behind it. He understands that this is going to help those who are in need and at the same time is not going to allow abuses to occur in the system. 
   We are at a good point. I think we are going to have a vote next week. I am confident that once again we will have an overwhelming vote for this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The distinguished Senator from Alaska indicated that we have already spent $6 billion on this facility in Yucca Mountain? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. They are not just going to lay it out on the ground. There is a tunnel into the ground in the desert out there? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It will be inside casks and then inside a concrete tunnel? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Do any people live right around there? Are people going to be living next to this facility? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Forty miles is a long way. I notice your chart showed that if you stood 6 feet from a trainload of this waste that was being sent out there, you would get about one-tenth as much exposure as we get here in the Senate? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It strikes me, if you were 40 miles away, you wouldn't get the little 5-millirem exposure. It would be infinitesimal, what anybody in Nevada would be exposed to as a result of storing this waste in one facility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the distinguished Senator for his leadership on this issue. 
   Since I have been in the Senate, I don't think I have ever seen a public policy issue more bizarre than the inability of this Nation to remove nuclear waste from five sites in my home State of Alabama and all over the United States to one safe and secure location. Why that can't be accomplished and why those continue to frustrate our efforts to carry out the law is beyond me. 
   I know the Senator said $6 billion had been spent on fixing this site so far. I understand everybody who pays their electric bill pays a certain percentage of that bill for storing of nuclear waste. Does the Senator know how much has been paid in by the citizens of America to make this a safe site for this disposal? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I can see why the Senator began his remarks raising the concern that the Federal Government should honor its commitments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think that is important. Money cost is important, $15 billion already spent. 
   For the Senator's edification and those in the body, in Alabama, outside of the education budget, the State general fund budget is less than $1 billion a year. This is 15 annual general fund budgets for the State of Alabama we have invested, and to date there has been no movement. 
   I thank the Senator for leading the effort on this. I believe his remarks are a comprehensive demolishment of any objection by a rational human being to carrying out the legislative mandate of this Congress. We need the President to be helping rather than frustrating. We need to pass this law. I was a Federal attorney for a long time. The Federal Government has the power and does, on a daily basis, condemn properties all over America for public use. This is 40 miles away from people. It is the appropriate location where we have done nuclear testing. 
   I stand in amazement that we are unable to bring it to a conclusion and thank the distinguished Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Well, the Senator mentioned that 20 percent of our power is nuclear. I have had some occasion to study this issue. I served on the Clean Air Committee of the Environment and Public Works Committee. The President has committed us to his view of reducing emissions into the atmosphere by 7 percent, during a period of time when our demand for electricity is going to nearly double; but 20 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear power in the United States, is that right? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. We haven't had a new nuclear plant built in almost 20 years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. How are we going to increase production of power and at the same time shut down the nuclear energy that other nations are using regularly? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-14-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I had the privilege of representing this Congress, with a number of other Senators, at a European conference of the North Atlantic Assembly. The President's own appointee as Chairman of the International Atomic Energy Administration, or association, Mr. John Rich, made a marvelous talk. I can sum it up fairly by saying that he concluded there is no way this Nation, or the world, can ever meet our clean air global warming goals without the enhancement of nuclear power. He demolished the idea that renewables, or others, could come close to filling the gap. This is the President's own appointee. 
   I don't know. Maybe he ought to go sit down in the White House, or with the Vice President, and discuss these issues because we are facing a crisis. We need to maintain our atmospheric purity as much as we can. We certainly don't need to be increasing. I thank the Senator for his time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation with my colleagues, Senator CHRIS DODD, which will support the work of over 600 religious organization based credit unions in the U.S. Many of these credit unions provide an essential source of financing for churches, religious schools, mission agencies, and related community projects such as homeless shelters, drug intervention facilities, and homes for abused women and children. 
   Some of these credit unions rely on other credit unions to fund their loans to religious organizations through loan participation agreements. these loan participation agreements are classified as business loans and are counted against the member business loan caps that credit unions must abide by as a result of the Credit Union Membership Access Act signed into law last year. Consequently, the exemption for credit unions having a history of business lending contained in that act though well intended, doesn't solve the problem because religious organizations based CUs will not be able to sell loans to other credit unions who will have to count these faith based loans toward their business lending cap. 
   The sale of loan participations is a necessary first step before any of these loans can be originated. the legislation I am introducing along with Senator DODD will allow the approximately 600 religious organization based credit unions in America to exempt from loan participations those loans they originate to religious non-profit organizations. In doing so, our bill will assure a steady source of capital for these organizations and community based missions. 
   Finally, Mr. President, I would like remind my colleagues that religious organization based credit unions enjoy a long history of safe lending and encourage them join Senator DODD and me in passing this legislation. No other credit union program will do more to help the poor, the homeless, the disabled and those otherwise in need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am proud today to join with Senators TIM HUTCHINSON, WARNER, TORRICELLI, MACK, SHELBY, NICKLES, INHOFE, THURMOND, ASHCROFT, MCCONNELL, ROBERTS, KOHL, FEINGOLD, CLELAND, HOLLINGS, BREAUX, GRAHAM, COLLINS, GRAMS, LAUTENBERG, ENZI, MURKOWSKI, GORTON, LANDRIEU, ROBB and LINCOLN in introducing the Organ Donation Regulatory Relief Act of 1999.  
   This legislation is designed to prevent an unprecedented Federal takeover of our Nation's organ transplant system by the Department of Health and Human Services. This act would nullify a highly controversial rule issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Donna Shalala, that would give her sole authority to approve or disapprove organ allocation policies that are currently established by the private-sector transplant community throughout this country. 
   This move by the administration would preempt Congress' role in encouraging a fair and equitable transplant system through the authorization of the National Organ Transplant Act. My bill would simply nullify the proposed HHS rule until such time as Congress passes amendments to the National Organ Transplant Act. 
   This bill would preserve Congress' prerogative to consider changes or improvements to the current system while maintaining the private-sector role of thousands of patients, families, volunteers, and medical professionals that are now responsible for our organ transplant policy. It will allow Congress the time needed to consider new initiatives to encourage more organ donation which is the heart of our organ shortage problem. 
   In my home State of Alabama, the University of Alabama-Birmingham, has one of the most effective and finest organ transplant centers in the world. It is the largest liver transplant facility in the world. I am extremely proud of their efforts. Let me just say this, this system has been built up carefully, utilizing State law and other laws. It works very effectively. 
   I am very concerned that Federal Government policies have now been proposed that would upset this. It has not only upset the University of Alabama-Birmingham but transplant centers, and mainly university hospitals all over the country. And that is why we believe action needs to be taken at this time. 
   I believe the current plan is fair and does a good job of acquiring and allocating organs for transplantation. For example, since the passage of the National Organ Transplant Act in 1984, the number of people receiving organs has increased annually, and the survival rate has improved steadily. 
   A recent study by the Institute of Medicine came to the same conclusion:  
   The committee found that the current system is reasonably equitable for the most severely ill (Status 1) liver patients, since the likelihood of receiving a transplant is similar across organ procurement organizations for these patients.  
   The Institute of Medicine study contradicted the underlying rationale in some numbers that I believe were unwisely interpreted. They underlie this rationale for the controversial ``rule'' on organ allocation that has been proposed by the Department of Health and Human Services. 
   In a careful analysis of 68,000 liver patient records, the Institute of Medicine panel said:  
   ......the ``overall median waiting time'' that patients wait for organs--the issue that seems to have brought the committee to the table in the first place--is not a useful statistic for comparing access to or equity of the current system of liver transplantation, especially when aggregated across all categories of liver transplant patients.  
   HHS has maintained that reducing regional differences in waiting times was the primary goal of their new rule on organ allocation. The HHS rule is a solution in search of a problem and would only inhibit the continual improvements made by the 
   transplant community since the passage of NOTA 15 years ago. 
   The HHS policy is also shortsighted in its wholesale preemption of State laws regarding organ transplantation. Many of the beneficial policies that have served to improve organ procurement and donation are based on State laws, such as the organ donor checkoff on driver's licenses, and the HHS preemption fails to recognize that fact. 
   This year's Labor-HHS appropriations bill provided for a 3-month moratorium on the implementation of the rule from the time of its enactment. But, unfortunately, this may not and probably will not provide adequate time for Congress to consider this very complicated issue in the context of amendments to the National Organ Transplant Act. 
   That is why it is necessary, indeed, imperative. And that is why 26 Senators have signed on to this legislation in such a short period of time. It is imperative that we nullify the rule so that these life-and-death issues can be considered without fear of a clock running out on ways to improve the current system and provide the gift of life to so many Americans. 
   Hospitals and the physicians who operate in those hospitals are the key to the success of the organ transplant program. They receive phone calls at all hours of the night, and they go out and retrieve those organs from people who have been killed. And they have to do it under short periods of time. If they are going to do that simply to send off the organs to some hospital of which they are not committed personally or to patients of which they are not serving, they will not be as effective in retrieving the organs. Not as many people will benefit and not as many people will have their lives saved as a result. 
   I believe that HHS' actions are unwise. It reminds me of that old adage: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. 
   We do not have and have not seen a real complaint from the citizens of America over the operation of our organ transplant system. This has been created by unelected bureaucrats here in Washington, and it is not healthy, in my view. 
   But there will be a full opportunity, if this bill is passed, to allow the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, of which I am a member, to hold hearings and review the facts in order to develop the best transplant program we possibly can. If we can improve the system, I say let's do it. But let's be sure we do not break something that is not broken already. 
   So I thank the outstanding work of several of my colleagues on this important issue, including Senators TIM HUTCHINSON, JOHN WARNER, ROBERT TORRICELLI, and Senator DON NICKLES, the assistant majority leader. Without their leadership, this legislation could not have come to fruition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Friday, November 5, 1999, to conduct a hearing on pending nominations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Friday, November 5, 1999, at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. to hold two hearings. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Select Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Friday, November 5, 1999, at 11:30 a.m. to hold a closed hearing on intelligence matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If the Senator will yield, I believe Senator WYDEN also wanted to make remarks for up to 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991105</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Senator WYDEN, before we adjourn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator HATCH, who made very impressive remarks on this subject, for his leadership as chairman of the Judiciary Committee. I particularly wish to express my appreciation to the Presiding Officer who has led this effort since I have been in the Senate to reform our bankruptcy court system. Make no mistake about it, we are talking about a Federal court system that provides the ability for individual Americans, who legitimately owe debts to people not to pay their debts and to wipe those debts out. 
   This is a historic American principle. We have had bankruptcy courts. They are referred to in the Constitution of the United States. They are uniquely and totally a Federal court procedure. 
   I think it is appropriate for us to make timely changes as the nature of our times in court change. We review what is happening and make sure our law is effective to accomplish the best and highest ideals of the American people. 
   We last passed historic bankruptcy reform in 1978. We have not since that time confronted the issue squarely and fundamentally and comprehensively to see what is happening and see what we  can do about it. Any Federal court system must be fair, it must be coherent and logical, it must be commonsensical, and it must help us further our economic growth and vitality as a nation. 
   At the same time, any legal system we establish, as the Chair so eloquently said, has a moral component. We need to make sure as a nation that our bankruptcy laws encourage the highest 
   and best ideals of the American people. In fact, all laws should do that; particularly, I suggest, bankruptcy laws. We believe, as Americans, that people who get hopelessly in debt ought to be able to start over and not have their lives forever burdened by debts they could never repay. That is the historic principle. We should not retreat from that, and certainly this bill reflects no retreat from that. 
   But it is never a good thing to go into bankruptcy. It is an unfortunate event, when people reach a point in their lives when they are unable to pay a just debt they incurred because they got some benefit from that debt. They borrowed money to buy a TV set; they borrowed money to buy a car; they borrowed money to take a trip. Somebody loaned them that money. The purpose of that loan was to have it repaid, and most people believe they ought to repay that debt. If ever in this country we believe that we do not have to pay debts, because it is inconvenient or difficult, we have a real problem because the ability of honest and hard-working people to obtain loans is going to be much more difficult. 
   An individual citizen should pay his or her debt. It is possible--and we made great progress, Mr. President, under your leadership--to create a system that does allow people to start over. But at the same time, it does not reward those who lightly walk away from debts they have every ability to repay either in whole or in part. Fundamentally, the way this system works is very unusual, in many respects. If a person makes a salary of $80,000 and if that person has a debt of $50,000 and that is the only debt they have, it may strike you they could easily pay it off in 2 or 3 years without a great deal of strain, perhaps. It may strike Americans as strange to realize, regardless of their ability to pay it off in relatively short order, they could walk into bankruptcy court, file under chapter 7, and wipe out that debt and not ever have to pay it. Some people do that and abuse the system. 
   I heard recently of an individual who made $35,000 a year, had a $1,500 debt, and filed for bankruptcy because he did not want to pay that debt. That kind of thing happens in our court. That is an extreme example, but there are less extreme examples of it on a routine basis. If a person is able to pay back a part of their debt, why should they not? 
   You say, well, it was for a hospital. Why should the hospital not get paid if he can pay some of his legitimate hospital bills? Why would we not want them to do that? Why should we say to an honest person who struggles to pay the hospital bill: You are just a chump; you are the clever guy, you went and got a lawyer, paid him $1,000, and he is going to wipe out your $3,000 debt to the hospital. If a person cannot pay their hospital bill, if they cannot pay their other bills, if their income will not support it, then bankruptcy is for them. But there are abuses, I assure you, and they are quite common--too common, I suggest. 
   There is a strange tendency in the filings, whether you file under chapter 13 or chapter 7--as you know, when you file in chapter 7, you simply offer up your assets, wipe out all your debts and walk away, never to have to pay any of those debts again. If you file under chapter 13, the court will work with you and your attorney and develop a repayment plan for all or a portion of that debt. They will stay the interest that is accruing on the debts. They will say 
   how much ought to be paid to each creditor. They will keep those creditors from suing or filing any harassment action against the person paying them off until the debts are paid. 
   In my home State of Alabama, in Birmingham, which is where chapter 13 payments began quite a number of years ago, over half, maybe more than 60 percent of the individual citizens, for some reason--for various reasons--have chosen to file under chapter 13 and pay back all or a portion of their debts. But in some of the larger urban areas of this country, that figure is even under 10 percent. Routinely, the lawyers come in and advise their clients to file under chapter 7. They file under chapter 7 and wipe out all their debts when many of those could easily pay them back. 
   There are some good reasons why people would want to file under chapter 13 and pay back a lot of the debts they owe. They will be able to have more self respect as individuals if they pay off their debts. It stops the creditors from suing them, the phone calls, and the harassment that might come when you owe many different debts. You have a better credit rating when you have paid off your debts, and you are able to keep certain items you might not be able to keep otherwise. There are other advantages to filing chapter 13. 
   If a court were to decide, as they could under our new law, that you have the ability to pay back and you are shifted to chapter 13, it is not all bad. There are many reasons why a careful lawyer representing a client would suggest chapter 13 is a good way to go. 
   So we have a system today that is very enticing to the irresponsible. We have a system today that is driven by a lot of different factors. One factor is the advertisements we see on television describing how to avoid your debts. 
   People see those advertisements and then go to the attorneys who specialize in bankruptcy. The attorneys tell them: You have these debts, and the easy thing to do is file chapter 7; I will file your bankruptcy for $700, $1,000, and you will not have to pay any more debts. You have to put everything you have on your credit card for the next 3 months. Do not pay any bills; do not pay any of your payments on any of your notes; take that money and give it to me; set aside the rest of it; we will file bankruptcy and just wipe it all out. 
   That is what is happening in America today. People are induced to do that. 
   I thought about it: Do they know? People get depressed and get panicky. They do not know what to do. People are suing them and threatening them. They go to their lawyer and ask for advice. I am of the opinion that at least a significant minority of those individuals want to pay their debts, but for various reasons they are in trouble and unable. 
   I visited in my hometown of Mobile an outstanding institution, a nonprofit credit counseling agency. That agency meets with families who are in financial trouble. The people at this agency sit down with these families and help them work out a budget. It helps the family members understand the consequences of spending. It helps them to set priorities on which debt to pay first. It helps them to set up a savings plan. Sometimes they will even receive the check and pay certain debts that are required and give the family a certain amount of cash to use for their weekly or monthly bills. 
   Normally, they call the credit card companies, the banks, and other people who have claims against the family and negotiate a lower interest rate. They are able to do that. Companies will do it. And the families can pay off those debts in that fashion. It is highly successful. 
   One of the main reasons for divorce in America today is financial difficulty. That is a known fact. As a matter of fact, it is the main reason. These nonprofit agencies encourage people to undergo marital counseling. A lot of people are in financial trouble because of alcoholism. Credit counseling or nonprofit agencies care about the people who come before them and help them get alcoholism treatment or help them get into AA. 
   Many gamblers are in financial trouble. One member of the family gambles and has lost the money. This is a known fact. They get people into Gamblers Anonymous and help save their family. 
   Maybe they need mental health treatment. They can oftentimes get them into those treatment facilities. That kind of thing is healthy. 
   One of the things I suggested, something with which the chairman, Senator GRASSLEY, and others on the committee agreed, is before you file for bankruptcy, you have to contact a credit counseling agency and discuss with them the possibility of choosing an alternative to filing for bankruptcy. The truth is, most people want to pay their debts. They just do not know how  to do it in a way that will be OK in light of the creditors pressing on them. 
   We believe that can be a significant step forward in helping people in debt. They can be counseled by experts in money management on how to handle their money and get out of debt on their own, how to maintain their self-respect and pride, and to actually pay off the debts. 
   If you get a loan from your brother-in-law or if you borrow 
   money from the bank, you ought to pay it back if you can. This bill encourages that. 
   There are people with high incomes who are filing for bankruptcy today. We have heard the stories of young lawyers and young professionals who get a new car, have student loans and $5,000 or $6,000 in credit card bills, and the creditors are calling. They do not really want to slow down. They can just file for bankruptcy and wipe out these debts. That is not right. We will be focusing on that. 
   It will not burden poor people. Credit counselors will have to be approved by the bankruptcy court. They will be nonprofit individuals who will be audited on a regular basis. These are the steps I believe will encourge people to avoid filing bankruptcy. 
   This bill will be a major step forward for families who are entitled to child support and alimony. They will be moved to the top of the priority list. It will be a great step forward for them. Child support and alimony will be improved. 
   A bankruptcy system for farmers that is adjusted to their unique problems will be enhanced and made permanent by this legislation. Senator GRASSLEY has been a champion of those issues for many years, and he has achieved that again in this bill. We will make it permanent with this bill. 
   I respect the work the Senator from Iowa is doing. This is a good piece of legislation. It calls on individuals to pay what they can. It allows judges to consider the circumstances involved before an order is given. It will improve the respect businesses and Americans have for bankruptcy if they know it is not being abused as it is today. We can stop it, and we can do better. This bill will do that. 
   There are loopholes that good lawyers have learned to exploit. I do not blame the lawyers for it. If we have it in the law of Congress that says this is appropriate, they are going to use it to the benefit of their clients. 
   We had a circumstance in which a tenant's 1-year lease had expired. He had not paid his debts. The landlord wanted to evict him. He filed for bankruptcy. People are filing all over America and getting a stay of legal action, causing the landlord to hire a lawyer and wait several more months before he can get the person removed from the premises. Maybe he never intended to lease it for more than 1 year anyway. Maybe he had another tenant to take the place after 12 months. That person, through abuse of the bankruptcy system, could do that. That is very common in America. 
   Many of these problems are being addressed. I know the chairman believes strongly that creditors ought not have lawyers go down to court all the time. The bill allows you to represent yourself, if you choose, in bankruptcy court under many circumstances. 
   This legislation will improve the system of law in Federal courts. It will have a more just result. It will stop individuals who are able to pay back all or a portion of their debts from walking into court and wiping out their debts. This bill will stop that. 
   For people in serious debt who fall below the median income of America, they will be able to choose chapter 7 or 13. But for those with higher incomes, if they have the ability to pay the debts, we think this bill will make them do so, or at least a portion of what they owe, if the judge so orders. It is a step in the right 
   direction. 
   I am proud to serve on the subcommittee which Senator GRASSLEY chairs. This bill is a step forward for our courts. I hope as we move forward we will have the support we had previously. It passed in this body last year with 94 out of 100 votes. It is essentially the same bill. It passed in our committee by a vote of 14-4. It passed the House with 303 votes to 100. It is a popular bill. It has broad bipartisan support. It has dragged on for far too long. It is time for us to see it to conclusion. 
   I thank the chairman for his leadership, determination, and persistence in driving this bill to a successful conclusion. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes, please. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is correct. I do have the closing script. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I do think Senator HUTCHISON wants to talk on another matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I understand and respect the Senator's position. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for a lot of reasons, I believe the nuclear power industry cannot be a dinosaur, as was suggested earlier. 
   The world today has 6 billion people on it; 2 billion of those people have no electricity. They are without power. In the next 25 years, we expect another 2 billion people to be added to the world population. Many of the people who do have power today, have it only in very limited quantities. 
   We know there is an extraordinary expansion of life expectancy and improvement in lifestyle where electricity is present. People can have water pumps. They don't have to go to the well with a bucket or a jug to get water for their families. There is no doubt the quality of people's lives, the length of their lives, some estimate it increases as much as 50 percent, is  greatly improved if they have access to electricity. Think about it. 
   As a matter of humanity, a human imperative, nothing could be better than expanding the availability of electricity throughout the world. We now know that there will be at least a 50-percent increase in electricity generation by the year 2020, doubling by the year 2050. That is a big increase. 
   Now at the same time, a number of people--Vice President GORE being one of them--have expressed great concern over global warming and the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. They tried to commit this country to a massive reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases. In fact, the Kyoto treaty the President signed and supports calls on this Nation, between the years 2008 to 2012, to actually reduce our emissions by 7 percent below 1990 levels. When you consider at the same time our economy, population and demand for energy has continued to increase since 1990, greenhouse gas cuts envisioned by the Kyoto treaty would amount to a cut of nearly one-third of today's energy use in America to achieve that goal, 
   a one-third cut. That is a big-time number. We are heading for a train wreck. We want to reduce emissions and increase power generation at the same time, yet we refuse to develop new nuclear power infrastructure. Some greenies think you should live out in the woods and just let the rain and sunshine take care of you and maybe have a windmill to generate power. But that is not proven to be efficient or effective. There will be opportunities to expand the use of renewable energy, but it does not have the potential, using even the most generous forecasts, to reach a level that would satisfy the demands of the Kyoto treaty. 
   So how are we going to do it? Twenty percent of the power generated in the United States is generated by nuclear power. France has 80 percent. They continue to build nuclear power plants on a regular basis. Look at it this way. Ask yourself, how can we meet the demand of both increased energy and reduced emissions? Nuclear power has no greenhouse gases that are emitted from the production of electricity. It emits no waste into the atmosphere. It is the only large-scale clean-burning electricity production method. Yet, the very same people who fight for even more stringent clean air regulations are often also opposed to nuclear power. 
   Twenty percent of our power, at this very moment, comes from nuclear power. Utility companies have not ordered a new plant since the late 1970s, so it has been over 20 years since we have built a new nuclear plant. Other industrial nations are continuing to build them, such as France, Germany, and Japan and China. Do we want China to build coal plants to meet its massive need for electricity? Is that what we are asking them to do? Are we saying China can have it, but not us? 
   Fundamentally, we need to confront this question for humanity's sake. Should we increase the production of nuclear power? Through over 50 years of experience with nuclear energy, there has not been a single American injured from a nuclear plant, not a single person in the world injured by the production of American-generated equipment for nuclear power? Not one. None. How many have died in coal mines, or on oil rigs, or from truck wrecks in transporting oil and coal, and train wrecks? Which is safer, I submit to you? 
   This is an irrational thing to me. I can't understand such objection from those who long for a cleaner environment. I believe, first of all, we need to understand that America needs more power to support our growing economy and population. The world needs more power. It will be a good thing for the world. To meet these demands, we are going to have to use nuclear power. I don't just say this as a Member of the Senate. I am not an expert. However, last year I happened to be in attendance at the North Atlantic Assembly, in Edinburgh, Scotland, with members of Parliaments from all over the world gathered there. Ambassador John B. Ritch, III, addressed us. He is President Clinton's appointed Ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Administration. He shared some important thoughts with us about the future of nuclear power. He mentioned some of the things I have already shared with you. From his remarks, he said:  
   Nuclear energy, the one technology able to meet large base-load energy needs with negligible greenhouse emissions, remains subject to what amounts to an intense, widespread political taboo.  
   Then he goes on to point out that we cannot possibly meet our world energy demands without increasing nuclear power. How is it we are not able to do that? How is it we have not been able to build a single nuclear plant in the United States, even though we have not had a single person injured from the operation of one since the conception of the program over 50 years ago? How is that 
   true? 
   Well, one of the tactics that has been used is to spread this fear that nuclear waste is going to pollute the environment forever, and that it can't be stored anywhere. It is just going to destroy the whole Earth if we do that. Well, that notion is so far from reality. I understand the Senators' political commitment to their State and maybe they believe it is going to be somehow negative to their State. They talked about how much exposure to radiation you are going to have. This stuff is not going to be thrown all over the sides of the highways. The waste will be stored in a solid rock tunnel in the ground, inside thick, technologically advanced, containers within the tunnel. It is not a lot of product. It doesn't take up a lot of space. It can be safely stored. 
   Who is going to be subjected to any radiation from it? Are they going to bring schoolchildren down there to look at it? It is going to be sealed off from the public. The Yucca mountain site is in the remote desert, in area that was previously used to test over 1000 atomic bombs. 
   Somebody said the Lord created that desert so we could put that waste there. I don't know, but I say this to you. I don't see how the storage of very well-contained nuclear waste, placed hundreds of feet underground in the Yucca Mountain chamber--inside a mountain--is going to damage the life, health, and safety of anybody. It is beyond my comprehension that we would argue that. I know that maybe people don't like it to come through their States. People don't like interstate highways coming through their farms, and they don't want to move their homes, so they object. But if the Government decides that is where the interstate highway has to go for the good of all the people, they build a highway. I used to be a Federal attorney and we would condemn people's property and take it for public use. 
   Our country has 20 percent of its power generated by nuclear power plants, and we are incapable of finding a place in this whole vast country to put it? That is beyond my comprehension. We have to act responsibly and take decisive action. Nuclear energy simply must remain a part of our mix in the future. 
   I thought it was interesting that the Senator from Nevada indicated that Vice President GORE would not sign this bill. Well, maybe he would not sign this bill. Vice President GORE has also indicated that he flatly opposes offshore drilling for natural gas. Natural gas is the only non-nuclear fuel which has a chance of filling the demand for new power while reducing overall air emissions in the near future. Gas is produced predominantly from offshore wells. We have a significant deposit off the gulf coast of the United States. Yet the Vice President opposes the development of these significant deposits of clean burning fuel. 
   But the Vice President not only opposes nuclear power, he opposes the storing of nuclear waste in a sane way, in a single, guarded location--and not scattered in all 50 States, in hundreds of different locations. He also opposes, as he said recently, offshore gas production. 
   How are we going to meet our demands for the future, I ask? I think the Vice President's position is a very unsustainable position. It will not hold up to scrutiny and he will have to answer to that. If we are not going to use nuclear power and we are not going to use gas, what are we going to use? How can we do it without a huge cost and increase in expense for energy in America. The world is heading into a new century. Nuclear power is going to play a key role, without any doubt in my mind, in making the lives and the health of people all over this world better tomorrow than it is today. 
   It is  going to make people healthier. Their lifestyles are going to be better. They are going to have pumps to bring water to their homes. They are going to have electric heating units to cook their food so they do not have to go out and gather wood or waste to burn. And it is going to clean up our global environment in ways we have never known before. We have prospects, if we don't run from science and if we don't retreat from the future. If we go forward and take advantage of the opportunities given to us, we can really have a terrific century. I think it is going to be better and better. 
   But it does make you wonder sometimes how people who seem to be caring deeply for the environment and our future could block the things that would be most helpful to us. That is a concern I have. 
   I hope we can reach the extra two votes. We have 65 votes. We need 67 to override a Presidential veto. There is bipartisan support--Republicans and Democrats--for this bill. It is the right thing to do. 
   I urge the President not to veto it. If he does, I urge the Members of this body in both political parties to vote for clean air, vote for the future, vote for improving the quality of our lives, both in the United States and the world. For over 50 years the United States has been a leader in the peaceful use of nuclear power. The United States needs to continue to be a leader in this industry. We don't need to be sitting on the sidelines while the rest of the world is developing the technology to produce even safer electric power through nuclear energy and even greater productivity through nuclear energy. 
   I have had the opportunity to talk to some of the country's finest scientists. They are absolutely convinced that if we improve regulations, have a little more research and a little more commitment, we can create a nuclear power plant that may even eliminate nuclear waste entirely. But that is a step for the future, but the not too distant future. It is an exciting time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991029</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to say a few words about an outstanding American who has left us. The flowers in this Chamber now recall for us the life of John Chafee, the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island who was 77 years of age. He served his country in an extraordinary number of ways. 
   I served for my first 2 years in this body on the Environment and Public Works Committee that he chaired. He was a wonderful person, a gentleman of the highest order, a man of propriety and decency, a classic Yankee, a leader who loved his country. He not only loved it, he proved his love to it. 
   He served in World War II in the Marines, landed on Guadalcanal with the first invasion forces, and a few years later he was recalled as a rifle platoon leader in Korea. He served 4 years as Secretary of the Navy and 6 years as Governor of Rhode Island. 
   They wrote a book a few years ago entitled ``In Defense of Elitism.'' John, I want to say, was not an elitist. In fact, he wasn't an elitist but he was of a higher standard than most of us will ever achieve. He cared about what was right and wrong. He fought for what he believed in. 
   He was highly intelligent, and he was blessed in a lot of different ways. He went to the finest schools in America. He went to Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts as a high school student, was a Yale undergraduate, Harvard Law--the very best education he could have. That was during a time prior to World War II when there wasn't any doubt what those young men and women were taught. They were taught duty, honor, humility, integrity, frugality, service to their country and fellow man, courage, and manliness. Those are traits that were part of his growing up, traits he never gave up until he took his last breath. 
   He was not part of the ``do your own thing'' crowd. John Chafee was part of the crowd who won World War II and defeated the Soviet Union, preserved freedom and democracy around the world, and eliminated totalitarian communism virtually from the face of the Earth. 
   John was helpful to me personally. I never had a harsh word with him. He loved environmental issues. He was a strong environmentalist. We didn't always agree. I came here from Alabama having talked to a lot of people who were a little bit irritated every now and then about governmental regulations that seemed to have no benefit to the environment and caused great burdens on farmers and business people. I am at this moment quite prepared to consider improving those acts. But John was part of the drafting and crafting, and he didn't give them up easily. He knew the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act had historic benefits in improving our Nation's environment. He would not give them up easily. He had to be convinced that you were right in every way before he would move toward any change in those laws. 
   He really was an effective public servant. He was effective as chairman of a committee. He was effective as an environmentalist. And he was certainly able to keep that committee together in a most harmonious way, with Republicans and Democrats able to work together with great harmony. It is a rare thing we see here when we have that kind of harmony. We had that kind of friendship. 
   His grandfather was Rhode Island's Governor. His great uncle was a Senator from Rhode Island. He had a great ancestry of personal service. 
   He announced a year ago that he himself would not seek reelection to the Senate. But he was extraordinarily proud that his son Lincoln, the mayor of a city in Rhode Island, was going to seek the seat he had so long and ably held. That was a source of great pride for him. And I talked to him about that race. 
   I think many of our brethren in the Senate have shared here our own thoughts about John Chafee and the quality of life he led. Many knew him much longer than I and knew him better than I. But my experience with him was personal, it was real, and it was very positive. 
   I think he is one of the finest people I have known. He exemplified high ideals, the kind of high ideals with which he was raised and from the community of which he was a part. He reflected that and carried it out with great integrity and ability. 
   We will all mourn his loss, and our sympathies are extended to his family, his daughter, and his four sons. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak as in morning business for 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991022</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, along with Senators LOTT, THURMOND, HELMS, KYL, INHOFE, ALLARD, and TIM HUTCHINSON, I have introduced a concurrent resolution, with the House, regarding the transition of control of the Panama Canal from the United States to the Republic of Panama. I thank my colleague, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator HELMS, for agreeing to discharge the resolution quickly to give Congress a chance to consider it in a timely manner. 
   I hope we can bring this resolution before the Senate, debate it, and vote up or down on the merits. Indeed, the Senate must be heard on this issue, which is important to our national security. 
   In accordance with the 1977 Panama Canal Treaty, the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces from Panama is almost complete, and with it will be the relinquishment of our control of the canal, which will take place December 31 of this year. 
   The canal is of vital interest, however, to the United States, and it is an invaluable world asset. Unfortunately, Panama's ability to maintain and provide adequate security for the canal is lacking. Exacerbating this tenuous situation is the growing influence of the People's Republic of China in the region. 
   Almost as soon as we started our pullout, a company called Hutchison-Whampoa, closely associated with the People's Republic of China, began to establish its presence and to fill the void left by the United States in Panama. Hutchison-Whampoa, Limited, holds leases for two port facilities at either end of the canal. Documented evidence shows that Hutchison-Whampoa, Limited, is closely tied to the Chinese Government. 
   The fears voiced by the American people when the United States negotiated this treaty in 1977 have been validated. The American people were right to be skeptical of Panama's ability to adequately maintain the operability of the canal and guarantee its independence and security. These fears were supposedly addressed in the Panama Canal Treaty's companion, the Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neutrality and Operation of the Panama Canal, which promises that the canal will remain open during times of peace and war. It also guarantees ``expeditious transit'' to the United States through the canal in times of conflict, generally interpreted to mean that, in an emergency, U.S. warships would be sent to the head of the line. 
   Still not satisfied with these provisions, the Senate, under Senator DECONCINI's reservation, insisted on the right of the United States to intervene militarily, if necessary, if it appeared the canal was about to be closed or threatened. Apparently, Panamanian President Torrijos did not agree and offered his own counter-counterreservation, nullifying DECONCINI. Inexplicably, this counterreser- vation, which Panama ratified, was never transmitted to the Senate for consideration. 
   Consequently, in 1996, the Panama Government awarded control of two key port facilities through a questionable bid process to Hutchison-Whampoa. Under the so-called Law No. 5, passed by the Panamanian National Assembly, it appears Hutchison-Whampoa has the authority to block or delay passage of ships through the canal to meet its business needs. This Chinese company could simply declare that passage of U.S. warships could be harmful to their business and we would have a serious problem in moving ships through the Panama Canal. 
   I have heard from many of my constituents on this issue. Some believe China will attempt to base bombers and missiles there. The Department of Defense has asserted this scenario is unlikely. However, recent antagonistic statements by China, such as thinly veiled threats concerning Taiwan and declarations possessing the neutron bomb, are reasons for people to be concerned. 
   There are two legitimate security concerns related to regional spying, narcotrafficking, illegal immigration, and the creation of bureaucratic obstacles which over the long term could impede the flow of traffic through the canal. Such actions could have a significant impact on American trade. 
   The Panama Canal sees the transit of nearly one-third of the world's shipping  each year, including 15 percent of all imports and exports of the United States, 40 percent of U.S. grain exports, and in the vicinity of 700,000 barrels of oil every day. Though prohibited by treaty, Hutchison-Whampoa, perhaps at Chinese's behest or with their influence, could impede commercial military traffic. 
   We hope this will not occur. There is no immediate indications that it will occur. But stopping the flow of these exports is a possible consequence of the leases that have been executed, and they could have significant devastating impacts on free trade, particularly for the United States. 
   The resolution I introduced was intended to address the issue of the Panama Canal security to raise the concerns of the Congress to the President, before some action is taken that could in the long term damage or threaten our security. 
   Panama has recently elected a new government. By reputation, President Moscoso is a woman of the highest personal character and possesses an astute political intellect. I am confident of her ability to lead Panama into the 21st century and to positively contribute to the security and economic growth of the Western Hemisphere. I believe there is probably no better time than while this new administration is in its infancy to engage Panama in discussions to address the concerns I have described. 
   As this resolution calls for, the United States should request that the Moscoso government investigate the charges of corruption or improprieties related to the granting of the Panama Canal contract to operate the ports by the previous administration. 
   Prior to the awarding of these leases, several 
   consortiums--some of which included U.S. bids--had submitted bids to operate the ports that were better than offers made by Hutchison-Whampoa. Without warning, Panama twice closed and reopened the bidding process, changing the rules and accepting higher bids after the bidding was supposed to have been closed. At one point, it is said that Panama asked a U.S. company to rescind its bid, citing a potential monopoly of firms in Panama. The sudden rules changes and unusual requests, at the very least, raised suspicions. Our Ambassador to Panama vigorously protested this bidding procedure and fought hard against it. The matter is even more troubling because the contracts have, by the passage of laws in Panama, extended them to the length of 25 to 50 years. It is called Law No. 5 in Panama. 
   Therefore, this resolution also requests that if President Moscoso, along with her government, finds illegal or improper dealing in this bidding process, they take steps to ensure a new process be undertaken; that it be transparent and fair to all parties. 
   The final provision of this resolution addresses the security issues. The canal, its mechanism of locks and dams, is fragile at best. By their own admission, Panama doesn't have the necessary resources to protect it. It disbanded its military after the U.S. invasion in 1989 to oust the Noriega regime. Now, as the United States has withdrawn its military forces--there are only a few hundred troops remaining today--drug trafficking through Panama has begun to increase. Panama's national police force is ill equipped by all admissions and is not prepared to counter this threat. 
   The Colombian civil war is spilling over Panama's eastern border and the threat of terrorism is growing daily. Russia and other organized crime groups are developing bases in the isthmus. Further, China's newfound foothold in the Americas has affected the flood of illegal immigrants who are coming in, using Panama as the staging area for their journey to the United States. 
   As a U.S. attorney, around 1990 I prosecuted a major international alien smuggling case involving a planeload of Chinese citizens who were brought to Panama and then secreted into the United States. They were able to be stopped, arrested, and people were prosecuted for it. Even at that time, China was using Panama as a conduit to bring illegal aliens into the United States. There is evidence that there is a Chinese role in this smuggling. 
   Our resolution calls for the negotiation of security arrangements to protect the canal and Panama on a mutual basis, respecting the sovereignty of each nation to protect Panama and the canal from any outside forces that might undermine it and undermine the free trade on which we have come to depend that goes through the canal. 
   The United States must not abrogate its leadership responsibilities when we relinquish control of the canal. We must emphasize to Panama our legitimate interest that sound, security standards be maintained, and we must work with Panama to fight corruption, illegal drug activity, gun running, and illegal immigration rings. The United States must also send a clear message to China, or any other entity with designs on the canal, that we will guarantee the security and neutrality of the canal through all necessary force. 
   China's influence in Latin America has been expanded. We certainly don't want to see a resurgence of Communist activity in the Western Hemisphere at this time in history. 
   I see the majority leader is here. I thank him for his leadership and interest in so many areas, particularly in this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Ohio, Senator DEWINE for his eloquent remarks that were delivered in such a way as to touch the conscience of all of us. I join him in also thanking Senator SANTORUM for his insightful, intelligent, and passionate commitment to ending this horrible procedure which, by any definition, is not good for this country. 
   I also appreciate the leadership of Senator BOB SMITH, who is here tonight. Senator SMITH started this debate a number of years ago. I don't know if people thought he was even telling the truth about it or not. They didn't know it was really going on. But as time has gone by, we have seen more and more that this procedure is horribly true and much more common than we knew. 
   This is a bipartisan effort, Republicans and Democrats. We have joined together, and I think it is important we work together to not just talk about this problem but to end it.  
   Some, I think, would prefer not knowing about it. They do not want to be told the gruesome details of this procedure; how a child, a baby, just 3 inches from birth, is deliberately and systematically killed. That is not something people want to talk about. They cringe and wish it would go away. I wish the procedure would go away. Unfortunately, it has not. It is so cruel, so inhumane, and so unnecessary, I believe this legislation is justified and necessary to prevent it. 
   A number of people during this debate have expressed concern about the life of the mother. I have heard this argument during my time on the Senate Judiciary Committee, serving with Senator DEWINE and others. We have had a number of hearings on this subject. 
   The bill, crafted by Senator SANTORUM, provides for this contingency. It would permit this procedure, partial-birth abortion, but only ``to save the life of a mother whose life is endangered by physical disorder, physical illness, or physical injury, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from pregnancy itself.'' 
   These are the kinds of exceptions that are in this bill. Some may say, as most physicians do, that these exceptions are not necessary. It is never the kind of occurrence that would justify this procedure. But it is in this bill. It makes me wonder why those who are concerned about the health of the mother are not able to read those words and understand them. The truth is clear. This bill will not endanger the life of the mother. 
   The fact is, the American Medical Association has noted that this procedure is never medically necessary. It is not the kind of procedure we need to use. It is a convenient procedure that abortionists have found they like to use. I don't think it is necessary and it should be outlawed. 
   So there is broad bipartisan support for the bill from both pro-life and pro-choice people. I think that shows what we are debating goes beyond the traditional debate on abortion. This support exists because the partial-birth abortion procedure deeply offends our sensibilities as human beings and as a people who care for one another, who know that life is fragile and believe that people need to be treated with respect and dignity and compassion. The Declaration of Independence notes life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, those are ideals of American life. A child partially born has those rights ripped from them in a most vicious way. 
   This is a dangerous policy. It is a thin line, a thin thread that we are justifying a procedure that is so much and, I think, in fact is infanticide. It is an unjustifiable procedure we are dealing with. 
   There has been a tremendous amount of debate on the number of partial-birth abortions performed each year. The pro-abortion groups and others have emphatically insisted that the total number of partial-birth abortions performed was small, and they were only performed in extreme medical circumstances. Therefore, they say the Federal Government should not pass laws about it. But now we know the truth. It has come out in dramatic form. Their issue, that this procedure is rare and only for extreme circumstances, has plainly been established to be false. 
   These claims were either manufactured or disseminated in an attempt to minimize the significance of the issue. 
   As reported in a 1997 front-page article in the Washington Times, Mr. Ron Fitzsimmons, executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers--let me say that again, the executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers, who has been traveling the country and saying these procedures were rare--admitted, that he had ``lied through his teeth'' about the numbers of partial-birth abortions performed. Mr. Fitzsimmons estimated ``that up to 5,000 partial-birth abortions are performed annually and that they're primarily done on healthy women and healthy fetuses.'' 
   That is a fact. That is what we are dealing with today. Those who would oppose this procedure, I believe, are not as concerned--or at least are not thinking clearly--when they suggest their opposition is based on their concern for the health and safety of the mother. I say to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, how can we answer to our children, our constituents, and others if we allow children to be destroyed through this brutal partial-birth abortion procedure? So I think if we are a nation that aspires to goodness, that aspires to be above the course and to reach minimum standards of decency, this legislation is needed. 
   I find it very puzzling that there is such resistance to the banning of just this one brutal procedure. I ask myself, what is it? I have heard it said that, well, the people who oppose partial-birth abortions do so for religious reasons, as if that is an illegitimate reason. Was it illegitimate for Martin Luther King to march for freedom based on his belief in the Scriptures? It is not an illegitimate reason if you have a religious motivation. But that has been a complaint about those who would question this. 
   I have analyzed the opposition to this partial-birth abortion bill and I can't see that it can be founded on law. I can't see that it can be founded on science; the AMA says it is not necessary. I can't see that it can be founded on ethics. Certainly, it seems to me that it is so close to infanticide--if not in fact infanticide--that it is difficult to see how it could be argued ethically. Why is it? The only thing I can see is that there is a sort of secular religious opposition to any control whatsoever on abortion--we will never agree to anything, any time, anywhere, no matter what you say. We are going to allow these procedures to go forward just as long as the abortionists wish to perform them and you, Congress, should never intervene in any aspect of it. 
   I don't believe that is a rational argument. It is not justified. This legislation is specific; it is directed to a procedure that all good and decent people, I believe, if they knew the facts and studied it, would know to be an unacceptable procedure. It would ban one procedure and it would not affect other abortions. I think all good Americans should be for it. I will be deeply disappointed if the President of the United States insists once again on vetoing this legislation, which has the overwhelming support of the Members of Congress and the American people. I don't see how it is possible that we continue to come back to this floor again and again over this issue. But it is going to continue because the procedure continues. Lives are being eliminated in a way that is unhealthy and not good for America. It is below the standards to which we ought to adhere. I thank Senator SMITH, who is here, and Senator SANTORUM for their leadership and dedication to this issue. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator mentioned $179 million of corporate expenditures. Are those for State and local races also? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I do not know about that. But I know Mr. SWEENEY has indicated he had $170-some-odd million, that they would spend $46 million, I believe, on just the 34 Federal congressional races, all of which is very unregulated and underreported, inaccurately reported, of course. But I want to get those numbers straight, whether you are talking about throughout the Nation, including county commission races, State senate races, and all the races. 
   The numbers are hard to compare. I think the Senator would probably agree with that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield for one more question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The numbers I have are that labor spent $370 million per election cycle on campaigns. I am not sure where all the numbers come out, but that is quite a lot. 
   Would the Senator agree with that? Or does he disagree with those numbers? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. SWEENEY said they were going to spend $46 million in 34 targeted U.S. congressional races. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The $370 million includes Federal election campaigns. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The last election cycle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. On the number that the Senator said the unions spent, what was that number? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I note the Washington Post article I was just looking at indicated there was a $46 million commitment by Mr. Sweeney in this election cycle for just 34 House of Representatives races, so those numbers don't sound accurate to me. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the Senator from Washington has, once again, succinctly and clearly stated a circumstance and situation in this country that is almost beyond belief. I have had a number of complaints about that. I used to be a Federal prosecutor. One of my good friends who has been a prosecutor for a very long time personally came to Washington to talk to me about the abuses of this law. It actually resulted in a full-page article in Time magazine. The title of it was, ``The Meanest Kid In Alabama.'' 
   It is probably not an accurate statement, but it indicated what we were dealing with. My friend, David Whetstone, told me of the circumstance in which a very violent, disruptive young man was kept in the classroom, under these Federal laws, beyond all common sense, all reason, beyond anything that can have any basis in connection with reality. 
   Americans may not know what is occurring, but this is happening in other schools. I want to tell you what happened to this young man. He had an aide who got on the school bus with him alone in the morning, sat with him alone through the classroom day, and went home with him at the end of the day because of his disruptive behavior. That had to be paid for by the school board, the taxpayers of that community. Can you imagine what it would be like trying to be a teacher, trying to teach in a classroom with that kind of problem? He used curse words to the principal on a regular basis, and it was very disruptive. But our law said, basically, he had to stay in that classroom. It was just remarkable. 
   Eventually the young man, going home one afternoon on the school bus, attacked the bus driver, it has been reported. The aide tried to restrain him, and he attacked the aide. My friend, the prosecutor, brought a criminal action or some legal action against him to try to deal with it. He was shocked, stunned, and amazed that this goes on, on a regular basis. He wrote me that in that County, Baldwin County, AL, there are at least six other incidents of a similar nature of which he was aware. 
   This may sound unbelievable, but I suggest anybody who thinks what the Senator has just said is not true, the kinds of things I am talking about are not true, ask your principals and teachers. Just ask them. It is Federal law that is mandating it. 
   We were supposed to pay for it when we passed it, and we never even paid for it. We were supposed to pay 40 percent of that unfunded mandate on the school systems. I think we are paying 15 percent now. This administration, President Clinton, opposes our getting it up to 40 percent. Why? I will tell you why I think the President opposes it. Not because it is not necessary; it is because the school systems, by this law, are having to do it anyway. They ran polling data that said maybe it strikes a better chord to have more teachers than to have funding for the Federal mandate we put on the schools, so we want to get more teachers and get more political credit or something; I don't know. We ought to finish funding this mandate. We ought to go back and look at this requirement and change it. It is not sound. 
   We want to keep disabled children in the classroom as much as possible. That is a worthy goal. But to go to the extent that we cannot remove children who bring guns to school, who consistently disrupt the school system, is beyond my comprehension. 
   In the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, we had testify the superintendent of a school system in Vermont. I was stunned. He said 20 percent of his budget goes to IDEA students, these kids with disabilities. In Vermont, 20 percent of the system's money goes for that. Somehow we are out of sync. You wonder why we cannot get more good education? Teachers cannot maintain discipline. They can only remove them, what, 40 days from a classroom in the face of the most outrageous behavior, even where there is violence involved. We have an obligation to the classrooms and to our teachers to help our teachers maintain order. If we are not going to do anything, then we don't do anything, but the worst thing for this Congress to do  is to pass laws that make it worse, make it harder for a teacher to do his or her job. 
   I know teachers who have quit; they say they cannot take it anymore. A friend of mine, who is 6 feet 4 and played college basketball, told me he taught junior high school and he didn't feel safe a lot of days. 
   I think we can do better. We ought to help our school systems do that. The Senator from Washington and a number of us, including the Presiding Officer, are working on some proposals that would allow us to empower school systems to receive funds with a minimum of restrictions as long as they have a firm plan that they know will work in their community to actually improve education. 
   We need to give the people elected to run our school systems more authority and give them the money so they can use it of the Federal money we are spending on schools, we know now only 65 cents out of every Federal dollar for education actually gets down to the classroom. We need to get our dollars to the classroom. We need to get that money down to the people who know our children's names. They need the money, not Washington. We cannot be a super school board for America. That would be so silly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I sat here and listened with great interest when the Senator from Maine and the Senator from Kansas were talking about the home health care. I realized early that was going to be a problem in Alabama. It has had a dramatic and devastating impact on the State. Mr. President, 15 percent cuts consistently are really devastating the home health care agency. 
   Senator SHELBY, the senior Senator from Alabama, and I, right after this bill passed--without hearings, by the way, as part of a conference committee report--along with other people, when it was voted on, did not realize its significance. But pretty soon we realized that, so we called the top officials of HCFA into our office to discuss with them what we could do. We had proposed and offered an amendment to the effect we would delay the implementation of these changes until we had hearings to analyze their impact. We could tell it was going to be very bad. HCFA refused. They would not join us in that effort. That amendment we sought to have agreed to over a year ago was not agreed to. 
   It is, to my way of thinking, a situation that cannot continue. We are going to have to fix it. It was seen early. It was a matter that came up in an attempt to make some changes they thought would work, and Congress ought to pass laws to help effectuate that. But there was not an understanding of how bad it was going to be. 
   The agency in charge of the management of the home health care, HCFA, is responsible and ought to be helping us in a more effective way to deal with this. It is true, as the Senator from Maine said, even under the containment of costs provided in the legislation that passed at that time, HCFA has cut substantially more than that. 
   It is expected to produce only about one-third of the savings that actually occurred. They squeezed that program for $46 billion over 5 years. That is about three times what was actually planned to be cut. We have a crisis that does require attention. I thank the Senator from Maine for leading the effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following nominations on the Executive Calendar: Nos. 267, 268, and 269. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senate passage of S. 1344 be vitiated and, further, the bill be indefinitely postponed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 12 noon on Monday, October 18. I further ask consent that on Monday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the  morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then begin a period for morning business until the hour of 1 p.m., with the first 30 minutes under the control of the minority leader, or his designee, and the last 30 minutes under the control of the majority leader, or his designee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene at 12 noon on Monday and immediately begin a period for morning business until 1 p.m. Following morning business, the Senate will resume consideration of the campaign finance reform bill with a Reid second-degree amendment being the pending amendment. The majority leader has announced that the first vote on Monday will occur at 5:30 p.m. It is hoped that the vote or votes on Monday evening will be in relation to amendments to the pending legislation. Further, cloture motions on the two campaign finance reform amendments were filed today by the minority leader. Therefore, pursuant to rule XXII, those cloture votes will occur 1 hour after the Senate convenes on Tuesday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now turn to Calendar No. 327, H.R. 3064, the DC appropriations bill, the substitute amendment No. 2302, now at the desk, be agreed to, the bill be advanced to third reading and passed, as amended, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table without any intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order following the remarks of Senator DASCHLE, the Democratic leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I appreciate the remarks of the distinguished Senator from California. I know there has been a lot of frustration about campaigns, campaign financing and having to run for office and ask for money. I am not good at it and don't like to do it. It is a humbling experience. Sometimes people won't give you money. If enough people won't give you money to run your campaign, it may be an indication you are not as good a candidate as you think you are. But if you have a message and people care about it and want to give to it, that is what happens in this country. 
   I guess what I want to say is, there are frustrations. Part of it, for those who wish this system weren't the way it is, is the first amendment to the Constitution. It provides for free speech. In the primary, when I ran in Alabama in 1996, for the Senate--I have only been here since then--there were two individual candidates who ran against me in that primary who personally put in over $1 million of their own money into that race. I spent $1 million in my race and raised it by every way I could. I had two kids in college and was living on a government salary. I didn't have a million dollars, but I won the race. And there are instances of people spending tens of millions and losing. 
   The Supreme Court has said you cannot deny, under the free speech clause of the Constitution, an individual citizen the right to go on television and say, I have a dream for America or Alabama and I want to carry it out and listen to me. You can't prohibit that. That is free speech. I wish it wasn't so. They have things such as, well, you can do it except for the last 60 days before the election. They said that one time. I suspect we will have an amendment a little later on on this bill that goes back to that, saying you can have free speech, but not for 60 days before the election. That dog won't hunt, as they say. When do you want to speak most intently, if it isn't during the election cycle? 
   We have a serious problem, when we try to contain by Federal law the right of individual Americans to come together to put money in a pot and to campaign for or against a no-good or a great candidate for the Senate or the Congress or anything else. That is what we are talking about. We are saying people can't get together and actively challenge and fight, with every ounce they have, for the beliefs that they share. 
   Two years ago, when I got here, I couldn't believe what was happening. The Chair is an attorney, and he will understand this. We actually had an amendment offered in 1997 in this body to amend the first amendment to the Constitution, the right of free speech and press. Thirty-eight Senators out of 100 voted for it. It would have been the greatest retrenchment of American democracy since the founding of this country. I was shocked at it. I guess they are not embarrassed. They have not offered it again. They haven't come back with that amendment. I have it right here. 
   This was the amendment. Thirty-eight Senators proposed to amend it by saying that Congress shall be able to set limits on contributions in campaigns. 
   I will say one thing about those people, they were honest about it. They were direct about it. They knew that being able to speak out and raise money and buy time on television is part 
   and parcel of free speech, and they were willing to pass a constitutional amendment so it could be done. We have problems when we start telling people they can't raise money. 
   As the Senator from Kentucky says, to speak, to carry your message, what you are doing is, these politicians, we politicians are going to get around here and say who can speak and who can't speak. We are going to tend to say the ones who can't speak are the ones who are attacking us and don't agree with us. American democracy is a great, great thing. Some say, our government is terrible but it is better than all others. I suppose that is what we are talking about fundamentally. We have learned over the years that the right of Americans to speak and debate and contend for their beliefs is ultimately better than passing laws to control it. That is the fundamental choice with which we are dealing. 
   McCain-Feingold originally, as it came forward, was going to stop all kinds of activity within days of the election. It was going to do a lot of different things on issue advocacy, that sort of thing. 
   Mr. President, I believe I will need unanimous consent to retain the floor following the vote at 4 on the DOD conference report. I ask for that at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the vote is scheduled for 4? We will be voting at 4? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will simply wrap up by saying there is not an easy way around this. The original McCain-Feingold attempted to contain all collections of money outside a political campaign in a lot of different ways. The effect of that was to say that a pro-choice group, a pro-life group could not raise funds and speak out on issues, even as it related to a particular candidate or campaign. When it became clear, I submit, that would not meet constitutional muster, we now have McCain-Feingold lite, as they say. It simply says you can't give but a limited amount of money to a political committee, Republican or Democratic committee or Republican or Democratic congressional campaign committee and, I suppose, some other party, if they have that much strength and qualify, but basically, political parties can't receive moneys except under the limited powers given. They have had to abandon the goal of prohibiting independent political action groups from receiving money and spending it. 
   I had groups against me that had spent money that I am not sure who they were. They were basically fly-by-night groups. I have heard other Senators talk about waking up and turning on the television and being attacked by some citizens for the environment or citizens for this or that. People put their money into those groups. They run ads, and they call your name. That is not covered by this bill. All it says is you can't give to a political party who may be involved in the election and you are limited in how much money you could give to them. But a political party is better than these fly-by-night groups. A political party has to be there the next election. If they cheat and lie and misrepresent, you can hold them accountable, and it probably will hurt them in the next election. They have people whose reputations are committed to those parties. 
   If we are going to control anything, we ought to do these other groups, rather than political parties, because they have an incentive to maintain credibility, 
   and this bill would not do anything except for political organizations. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, there is a difficulty in a free country, one that guarantees the right of free speech and the press, to tell a group of citizens they cannot raise money and speak out at any time they choose to carry forth the message they believe in deeply. We are not talking about a game here. It is nice to sit around and say: How can we do something about this money in campaigns? It is such a burden to raise money. People try to buy influence. It is true people do try to ingratiate themselves to Members of Congress. How do you stop it? How do you do it, consistent with the great democracy of which we are a part? 
   This bill as it is written, the ``McCain-Feingold lite''--the final version that has been altered, as we have gone by--is a feeble, sad attempt, really, to control spending in a way that is not going to be at all effective. In fact, it is going to be counterproductive and unwise, at the same time undermining the great first amendment of our Constitution. 
   This bill would fundamentally only ban contributions of soft money; that is, contributions of money of certain amounts that are limited in the statute. If you give more than that to a party, then that becomes soft money. It would ban these contributions to parties or party organizations. 
   Parties are good things. A lot of fine political scientists have been concerned over a number of years that parties have begun to lose their strength. But they go out to educate the public. People can call them to get information. They help young, inexperienced candidates get into the political fray. They help them fill out their forms right and make sure they comply with the campaign laws and the other laws involved in these elections. They serve good purposes. They are, at 
   their foundation, a group of American citizens who share a general view of government who desire to come together to further those ends through their organization. So we are banning money to them. Who does not get soft money or money over the $1,000 contribution limits? Parties cannot get it. At the same time, there would be no ban on contributions to organizations that are not historic, that will not continue to exist from election to election. They will go away. 
   In Alabama, in 1996, the ad that was voted the worst ad in America was run in our supreme court race. It was a skunk ad, and it was a despicable ad. It was done by money that apparently was given by a trial lawyers' association to an organization. I think the title of it was the ``Good Government Association.'' They raised this money and put it into this thing. It had one  purpose. It didn't register voters, didn't answer the phone, didn't produce literature--it ran attack ads against a good and decent candidate for the supreme court of the State of Alabama. This bill would not stop that kind of thing. That could still go on. 
   That is why I believe it would do nothing to deal with that fundamental problem. When people care about an election, they are going to speak out. These fly-by-night groups that come together, they have no integrity to defend over the years as a political party does. Their leaders oftentimes are people you will never hear from again. But a chairman of a political party, the candidates and members of that party, Republican or Democrat, have a vested interest in trying to maintain the integrity of their party. I think, in truth, there are going to be fewer abuses by a political party, frankly, than another kind of institution. I will just say these would be legal under this bill. It would not deal with the fundamental question with which we are most concerned. 
   We know one of the union labor leaders has promised to spend $46 million in 35 congressional races to defeat Republican candidates and take over the House of Representatives. He has announced that: Over $1 million per race. This bill would provide no control over that. 
   What if you are a candidate in Alabama and all of a sudden you wake up and you have been targeted and they are spending $2 million--it could be $2 million, maybe $3 million--against you, running attack ads daily? You go around to ask people to raise money to help you and they cannot give but $1,000 and you cannot get your message out because you have been overwhelmed. That is not fairness. It would not control that kind of immense funding in any way. That is not fair. That is all I am saying. That is not fair. We do not need to do that thing, in my view. 
   If there is a problem in campaign finance and funding, one of the most amazing and aggravating things to me is that a union member who favors me or someone else, another candidate, may have his money taken or her money taken and spent for the person they oppose. They have no choice in it whatsoever. They have to work, they have to pay union dues, and the money is spent. This bill throws up a figleaf and says, if you are not a union member, then you can object, if they are taking your union dues, and maybe get a little bit of it back if you protest and demand it back. But as far as dealing fundamentally with the freedom of working Americans to decide who their money is spent on, it would do nothing. That is a wrong, if you want to know what is wrong in this country. 
   I submit this bill is a shell, a pretend bill. It will not stop soft money. That is so obvious as to be indisputable. It is going to continue. It is just going to go through organizations other than political parties. It will not stop unions from spending $46 million on a few targeted races. It is not going to stop political action committees with special interests from raising funds, involving themselves in elections. Indeed, how can it? Should it be able to? Probably not. How can we stop people from doing that? 
   I don't like it. I don't like people running ads against me and I have had them run against me saying: Call JEFF SESSIONS and tell him you don't like what he is doing. It is basically an attack ad. 
   It is not going to change. 
   What can we do? I can suggest a few things. Let's raise the 1974 spending limits. That is way out of date. It is time to bring those up to date. Then a person who cares about an election, if he gives $2,000 or $3,000, may not believe he needs to carry on by giving money to a special committee to argue the case further. He may be satisfied with that. That would be natural and normal. It would reduce the pressure for soft money. 
   I believe we need more prompt disclosure. People need to know who is giving this money. It would have been helpful for the voters of Alabama to have known that a skunk ad came from defense lawyers, plaintiff lawyers, and business interests on one side of that debate. They would be more understanding of what it means and may be able to hold somebody accountable in a way they would not otherwise. 
   Frankly, we ought to start enforcing the law. I spent 15 years as a Federal prosecutor. We are not doing a very good job, in my view, of finding people who violate existing laws and seeing that people are held accountable. There are going to be mistakes, and I am not talking about witch hunts and trying to disturb honest and decent candidates who have done their best to comply with many regulations, but we really need to watch those cases where we have serious enforcement problems. 
   The Senator from Utah talked about Mr. Tamraz who gave $300,000 to the Democratic Party to meet with the President, and the State Department people said he is a bad character and they should not see him. But he was invited to the White House and the President saw him anyway. That is helpful and may not be an absolute violation of the law, but that is the kind of thing we ought to know about and stand up against. But this is freedom fundamentally to speak out. 
   My time is up. Our cure, I am afraid, is more dangerous than the disease. We have a lot of problems in elections and because of them people get upset. But fundamentally in America, today you can campaign and get your message out, and the American people accept the results of those elections. We do not have riots when one candidate wins and another one does not. It is because people feel they have an adequate opportunity to have their say. 
   This legislation clearly, in my opinion, would weaken the first amendment right to free press and freedom of speech. It would be dangerous because the incumbents will be setting the rules. As Members of this body, we are going to set rules which protect and resist activities that we as incumbent politicians do not like. Every now and then, it might be healthy for somebody who wants to raise a bunch of money and run against some of us. It might be good for us. One can make an issue of it if they think it is unfair, but how can we say they cannot do that? Many of the rules we are talking about cannot be enforced. They will not be enforced or do not even attempt to avoid certain loopholes which we close in a little gate and then the whole fence is down when we allow this money to go through other political groups and just barring parties from spending the money. 
   This plan will not work. It will not achieve the goal of the parties submitting it. It will not do that. It encroaches on the first amendment and is not good public policy. 
   I thank the Chair for the opportunity to speak and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am excited and optimistic about our next century and about the next millennium. We made great human technical progress in the 19th century. A lot of things happened in that century that were good. We continued that technological progress in the 20th century. Unfortunately, the forces of totalitarianism, war, fascism, and communism have run loose in the 20th century to an unprecedented degree. Millions died as a result. I do believe, though, the next century, the 21st century, can be the greatest in the history of mankind. 
   Hitler and his forces of national socialism were crushed in this century. Communism and the ``Evil Soviet Empire'' collapsed. The world is a better place with even greater possibilities. We can work together and promote peace, order, stability, and ensure economic, technological, and medical progress to an unprecedented degree. This, I believe, can and will happen. 
   Yes, there will be problems. Ambition, ignorance, greed, and hatred will not be eliminated from the face of this Earth. These will abide. But from a global perspective, they can be contained, and peace and progress can be expanded in the next century to an unprecedented degree. For this to happen, however, the United States must lead. It cannot be Russia. They have deep economic and political problems. It can't be China. They are driven by the Communist chimeras and old ambitions. It can't be Europe, for they have not achieved the political unity or the military strength to act quickly and decisively. The United States has the burden to lead for peace. And not just peace--we need peace with justice, a much harder goal. 
   We are a nation composed of immigrants from all the nations of the Earth. People from all over the world came here to live in freedom. We have also been blessed with the economic, technological, and military strength in addition to the cultural diversity that enables America to be a unique world leader. 
   Yes, many criticize the United States, but they all fundamentally recognize our critical role in a stable and healthy world order. This doesn't mean we are to be the world's policeman for every little matter, but we must lead with confidence and strength. It is necessary, therefore, for our country to have credibility when we speak, to be respected by all, to be feared by expansionist and dangerous forces, and to continue, with even more skill, our self-confident world leadership that we have shown in recent years. 
   That is why I have decided it is necessary for me to oppose the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. I am of the firm opinion this treaty will do at least two things. It will certainly cause our current nuclear stockpiles to be degraded. Simulated tests, all agree, can never be as good as actual tests. Secondly, it will reduce our capacity and, more importantly, perhaps, our will to improve our weapons systems--to keep up with scientific advancements. The result, therefore, will be that the United States will see its nuclear power degraded and its capacity for world leadership eroded. This means less stability in the world. Our allies will have less confidence in our nuclear umbrella. Our adversaries will be more confident, more active, more willing to be aggressive and to push the limits. In addition, our confidence in our own ability to act and lead will be diminished. Our President and Congress must be certain of our ability to act. 
   Senator WARNER, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, a tremendous patriot with extraordinary experience in matters military, a man who loves his country, who supports our President when he can and believes he should, who opposes this treaty steadfastly, recently said there can be no doubt in the credibility of that stockpile. That is it, fundamentally. We can't have doubts, our adversaries can't have doubts, and our allies can't have doubts. 
   There have been a lot of discussions about verification. This treaty cannot be adequately verified. We have talked about a lot of other issues today. Safety--how can we be sure of safety if we are not testing our weapons? 
   I will discuss for a few minutes specifically what I believe is a fundamental danger or effect of a complete ban of all testing forever, which this treaty does. In effect, the goal of this treaty will be and is to cap, to freeze, to stop improvements in weapons systems. It will include our weapons systems. 
   Some say: JEFF, we can still do research and they don't have to do all this testing. 
   That is not entirely accurate. Yesterday, as the Director of the Sandia Laboratory testified, they have design data at this time that could be used to produce a new weapon, but they cannot test it to bring it online. That is a significant statement, I believe. We have that capability now, and we are not going to use it. 
   Of course, basic weapons, the Hiroshima-type bomb, do not need to be tested. Everybody who is of scientific sophistication in the world--and there are 44 countries today that are either estimated to be or are actually nuclear-capable--all over the world people have the capability of building a basic nuclear bomb. We ought to know this ban would have no impact on that. This treaty would have no impact on buying and selling of nuclear weapons from a country that has already produced. 
   What this treaty is doing--and I want Members to think about this--is attempting an act that is extraordinary. We will attempt to stop research and testing on new materials and new weapons. If the United States signs such a treaty, we know we will comply with it; we will comply with the spirit and we will not 
   continue to research and develop through testing. Such a decision, I believe, would be unwise and would be contrary to human nature and our tendency to progress, improve,  and advance --characteristics of humanity. 
   To pass a treaty such as this will certainly slow our interest in modernization, but it is not likely to slow the research of other capable nuclear nations. They are behind. They--many, at least--will be determined to catch up. They will use this treaty to catch up, similar to the yellow caution flag when there is an accident on a race course--allowing those off the lead lap to catch up to the leaders. CTBT will allow other states that opportunity. 
   Secondly, in their efforts to catch up, our adversaries may well even achieve a breakthrough, a technological advancement that could leapfrog them even beyond the United States into nuclear leadership in this world. That will not only be bad for America, it will be a setback for stability and peace and justice for the whole world. We have an obligation to work to promote peace and stability. 
   The goal of this Nation, I so strongly believe, is to be a preeminent world power. We have to understand what comes with that: The responsibility to be strong. 
   President Reagan said a number of years ago:  
   Our policy is simple: We are not going to betray our friends, reward the enemies of freedom, or permit fear and retreat to become American policies, especially in this hemisphere. None of the four wars in my lifetime came about because we were too strong. It is weakness--weakness that invites adventurous adversaries to make mistaken judgments.  
   I think that is the history of mankind. Winston Churchill warned England about that when Nazi Germany was on the early march and they could have been stopped earlier at much less cost. 
   I have seen it argued by some that the passage of this treaty will freeze our nuclear leadership in place. I believe that is not sound reasoning. That is a foolhardy concept. It will stop America from improving our arsenal. It will stop America from improving our technology. It will allow, I submit, our adversaries to catch up and, God forbid, pass us. 
   Some may believe all the world powers are the same. They used to say we are just a bunch of scorpions in a bottle. I disagree. The United States has a unique role in the world, a unique ability to lead for good. Our leadership has been good for the world. I defy anyone to dispute it. When historians write of our role in the next century, I want them to write that we used our power to lead the world in great progress toward peace, with justice and economic and technological and medical prosperity. 
   This goal is not going to be furthered by fuzzy thinking. It will not be achieved if we just sign away, by this treaty, capabilities we have that enable America to lead. That is why we are able to lead--because we have superiority. If there are two football teams--and in Alabama we have a lot of them--some of them like to throw a pass and some maybe cannot throw a pass so well. It would be nice to have a treaty beforehand that the one with the ability to pass would sign away that ability. That doesn't happen on a football field, and it won't happen in the world. 
   Our leadership is important, and our military power is crucial to it. That is the solid foundation on which we have to build. We benefited from a certain number of treaties with the Soviet Union that dealt with nuclear weapons in the past. I believe we can continue our efforts to reduce the number of weapons in our arsenal. I believe we can perhaps reduce by 50 percent the nuclear stockpile we have. Yes, we can do that. There are a lot of things we can do that promote peace. But to ban all testing of all nuclear weapons? That is a mistake. I do not believe that will promote peace. 
   I do not believe so. I favor our doing all we can do to stop proliferation, the spread of nuclear weapons around the world. The truth is, this will probably be done best on a nation-by-nation basis. When Pakistan and India had their fuss earlier last year and one tested, then the other one tested. Why? Because they felt their existence at stake, and no piece of paper is going to stop any nation from developing what it believes it has to develop to maintain its freedom, to maintain its autonomy, its independence as a nation. That will not happen. 
   What we have done, as the United States, is provide a nuclear umbrella. We have been able to say to nations: We are not going to let other nuclear powers do you in. Don't develop weapons, we will be there, we will stand firm. We have the capability to destroy anyone who attempts to destroy you. 
   People have relied on that. Many nations have. Germany and Japan could easily develop nuclear weapons. They have declined to do so based on our assurances. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I appreciate that question. It is my view--sometimes it is internal politics. Sometimes, though, it is a lack of being able to walk in our shoes. 
   This is a very significant time for us. We need to ask ourselves who we are as a nation. We are in a class of one. A treaty such as this would be good for Japan. It would be good for Germany, perhaps. But it would constrain us and, in the long run--they may not realize it--it could jeopardize our ability to guarantee their freedom. 
   So on the proliferation question, 44 nations have this ability to develop nuclear weapons and have them. It is already out there. Others are going to continue to get it. It will not stop. 
   I say to America: Please listen. We are a unique world power. We must use that power for good. We must maintain nuclear leadership in the world, and we cannot forfeit our power by signing it away for a treaty at the urging of politically correct and fuzzy thinkers. 
   I have a vision in my mind about treaties. We have to watch them, I think. It is Gulliver in the land of Lilliputians, stretched out, unable to move because he has been tied down by a whole host of threads. Powerful Gulliver, unable to move, tied down by strings and threads of multiple numbers. 
   We are not one of equals. The United States is in a category of its own at this point in history. This treaty might be good for Japan, England, France. It will not be good for us, and in the long term, the long run, I am convinced for world peace. 
   I remember--I wasn't in this body--a number of years ago in Europe there was a fuss--Senator WARNER remembers it, and Senator BIDEN--about whether or not to put Pershing nuclear missiles and intermediate-range missiles into Germany. The Germans, despite the most intense anti-nuke Greens and so forth who were there, agreed with President Reagan to do so. Critics said it would cause war and could lead to nuclear war. But the truth is, it led to peace. That strength, that commitment unequivocally made, saying we will not allow Germany, we will not allow Europe--we are willing to put our necks on the line, our nuclear power on the line, to guarantee the independence and freedom of Western Europe. It was a blow for peace. It helped lead to the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
   I recall a few years ago a discussion on Firing Line between William Buckley, Jr. and a liberal editor. At the end of the wonderful discussion, the editor poured forth his hopes and dreams for a more peaceful world. 
   Mr. Buckley paused respectfully for a while and then he said: 
   Well, friend, I hope you won't mind if I work to defend the Republic while you are working on these grand plans.  
   That is where we are today. I believe we have a burden. I believe we ought not to sign away the unique capacity that we have as a nation to improve our nuclear arsenal. One of the things we do so well, and most people may not know, is that we have produced sophisticated, highly targetable weapons--weapons capable of being very accurately targeted to attack military targets, hardened defensive targets, not just aiming them at population centers. So the extent to which we can improve our arsenal may give us the ability to be stronger militarily and actually avoid any more loss of life than would be necessary in such a conflict. 
   I think we are at an important time. The President asked for and wanted this debate. It is not as if anybody did not know it was out there. It had been discussed for quite a number of years.  The truth is, there are not votes to pass this treaty. Some say maybe we ought to pass on it and not vote on it this time and keep it alive. I thought about that. Some good people think that may be the right idea. But I have my doubts. 
   I think it might be a good thing for the world to see the Senate vote this treaty down. It is not a good treaty. I think it would send the world the word, and I think around the capitals of the globe we would have some hard-headed world leaders saying: Wow, we thought the United States could be moved by all this anguish and talk and pleas and political correctness. This is odd. They are able to act in their own self-interest and show leadership. I am impressed. 
   I think that might be the long-term result of this, instead of some of the calamities our friends would say will happen. I just do not think the world is so fragile that the United States, acting in its own rational self-interest that this treaty is not good, turns it down, that we are going to head for a nuclear holocaust. I think, indeed, it could cause us to go back once again to perhaps craft a treaty that is justifiable, that will work, that will allow us to modernize and innovate and at the same time promote security and peace in the world. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the chairman yield? I would like to say how much I enjoyed serving with Senator WARNER, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. He has had full hearings on this matter. I have seen his conviction grow as day, after day, testimony in hearings has indicated this is not a good treaty. 
   I know the Senator from Virginia would support it if he believed it was the right thing. I know he has developed a firm view that it is not the right thing. I certainly respect that. It certainly has impacted my view of it, and I agree with him. 
   My instincts are that this is not good for America, and when we say no, it is not going to hurt us in the world. People are going to respect us because we are acting in our legitimate, just interests. We are acting for peace and stability, as a great leader of the world ought to act, and we ought not to be pushed around by some polling data to pass some treaty that is going to undermine our strength as a nation. I thank the chairman for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Steve Shope be granted floor privileges in the proceedings today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I want to share a few additional thoughts. 
   Earlier today I discussed my belief that if the United States is going to be a leader for peace, it needs to be a leader militarily in the world. It has fallen uniquely to be our responsibility, our burden, our role to do that. I think if we fail to do that, history will record that we abdicated a responsibility. That is critically important. 
   Presiding in the chair is the chairman of the Armed Services Committee. We have had a number of days of hearings--some top-secret, code-word briefings and hearings. Some have been public. 
   I want to share a few things, as I interpret what occurred in those hearings. It is consistent with the headline as has been cited earlier in the New York Times: ``Experts Say Test Ban Could Impair Nuclear Arms Safety.'' That is the way it was interpreted by a New York Times reporter. That is the way I believe it is fair to be concluded. 
   The lab Directors were pressed aggressively by Senator LEVIN, one of the finer questioners that I have ever observed in this body. He asked them firmly and consistently: Were they on board? They maneuvered around a bit, but they eventually did say they were on board. But Senator ROBERT BYRD astutely noted they were ``uneasy'' with those answers. In fact, they indicated they were on board only after a good deal of insistence and debate about signing on to the CTBT concept. 
   They indicated that they would sign on and be on board, if the six safeguards could be included. These are employees of the executive branch of the United States Government. They work for the President. They know the Secretary of Energy was testifying there at the same time. 
   The chairman of the committee noted that their testimony was inconsistent with the testimony of the Secretary of Energy at the same hearing on the same day. The Secretary of Energy is a fine person, but he is not a nuclear engineer. He has not been given the responsibility to monitor the safety and security of our weapons. He says they are OK. The President says they are OK. But the experts didn't quite say that. In fact, they said it could impair nuclear arms safety. I think that is important. We do not have one voice about this matter. 
   They talked about the Stockpile Stewardship Program, and they were not nearly so confident in that program as some would suggest. In fact, it almost seemed, I suggest, that they were saying that the President, in 1993, just unilaterally said: We are not going to test, so they are not doing that. This apparently gave them some belief that they could have some other kind of testing, so that is better than nothing. I may be misinterpreting those comments, but I don't think so. I think they basically said stockpile stewardship was not a guaranteed thing, but that they would do their best with it, as patriotic Americans. They said they could not be sure the Stockpile Stewardship Program would work, and they admitted there would be no way to validate the Stockpile Stewardship Program other than through live-fire tests--tests of explosions, nuclear explosions. 
   I ask, is this, indeed, in the best interest of the United States to tie our invaluable deterrent responsibility to an undeveloped, untested, and unvalidated simulation regime? 
   The preamble to the treaty states that cessation of testing is an effective measure of nuclear disarmament. Dr. Robinson, Director of the Sandia Lab, testified that nonnuclear components in today's weapons will ultimately become obsolete and irreproducible--they cannot be reproduced. That is, without testing, our nuclear capability will vanish. If it does, it is a distinct possibility that other states will find the world's situation having changed significantly, and they may decide to determine to expand their own capability. It will, in fact, be, and these words irritate a number of people, but it has a ring of truth to it. It will be a form of unilateral disarmament, we, being the world leader, signing a piece of paper that ultimately leads us to a point where we cannot continue to be the world leader. 
   We know a test ban can't prevent nations from acquiring nuclear weapons. Tests by India and Pakistan showed that. The Sandia Lab Director further testified that, ``[t]hose who claim that by ending nuclear testing, we will close off the threat of terrorist development and use of nuclear explosives mislead themselves.'' And Congress should not accept such arguments as a basis for endorsing a test ban treaty. 
   I hope, Mr. President, we can develop a way to continue to reduce the presence of nuclear weapons. This Congress, this Senate has supported massive reductions in the number of weapons we possess. We have continued to explore other treaties and agreements. 
   I like limited, bilateral agreements with nations such as Russia or China or England or France, where we know what we are doing and it has an end time. We have an agreement. We have a precise understanding of the benefits and risks involved. These broad treaties, to which we are committing with the whole world of nations, many of whom are not going to comply with them, make me nervous. It is not necessarily good for a great nation to do that. A great nation has to be cautious. A great nation can't blithely go out and start signing up to a bunch of treaties and thinking 
   that it will all work out sometime in the future. It is a serious matter. 
   I am glad the chairman and others, Senator KYL, Senator HELMS, have taken such a lead in this. I am glad to see Chairman HELMS here. Chairman HELMS has said consistently, this treaty is not good for America. He has refused to endorse it. He opposes it. Now we have had hearings and debate, and a growing number in this Senate are agreeing with him. I don't believe there are votes sufficient to pass it, because I do not believe that it is good for the country. I think the opinion of Senator HELMS on that is being validated daily by the experts, as well as Members of this body. 
   Mr. President, I thank the chairman for his leadership. I appreciate Senator BIDEN's ability to articulate and to advocate. It makes us all think carefully about what we are doing. I think it has been a good debate. I think we have learned a lot. In the end, I think this Senate will conclude this is not the time to ratify this treaty. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, today I am proud to introduce the Sessions/Schumer Civil Asset Forfeiture Reform Act of 1999. This bill is the product of many months of work by a bipartisan group of Judiciary Committee Senators. It will make many needed reforms to the law of civil asset forfeiture. At the same time, our measures preserve forfeiture as a crucial tool for law enforcement. 
   The Sessions/Schumer bill was drafted in close consultation and with the support of the Justice and Treasury Departments. It has the support of the FBI, the DEA, the INS, and the U.S. Marshall's Service. 
   There are five major reforms in the Sessions/Schumer bill. First, we have raised the burden of proof on the government in forfeiture claims from probable cause to preponderance of the evidence, the same as other civil cases. 
   Second, Sessions/Schumer requires that real property can only be seized through the court. It will be illegal for federal agents to physically seize real property until the property has been forfeited in court. 
   For those who cannot afford the cost bond, our bill also adds a property bond alternative for contesting forfeiture. This provides potential claimants with more flexibility in choosing how to proceed with a claim against seized assets. It will no longer be necessary to provide cash up front to file a claim. Instead, a claimant can simply pledge an asset to cover the anticipated costs or, if the claimant cannot afford this, proceed without posting any bond. 
   Sessions/Schumer also creates a uniform innocent owner defense; an innocent owner's interest in property cannot be forfeited by the government. An innocent owner includes one who had no knowledge that the property may have been used to commit a crime. And  in cases where the property was acquired after the crime, the uniform innocent owner defense includes bona fide purchases who have no reason to know that the asset they have purchased may be tainted. 
   The fifth major reform provides payment of attorney's fees. If a claimant receives a judgment in his favor, the Government will pay the claimant's reasonable attorney's fees. 
   I am pleased to note that this bill has the support of a broad coalition of law enforcement groups. It has been endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Federal Law Enforcement Officer's Association, the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the International Brotherhood of Police Officers, the National Association of Police Organizations, the National District Attorney's Association, the National Sheriff's Association, and the National Troopers' Coalition. 
   As one who believes in justice and who spent many years as a federal prosecutor, I know how important asset forfeiture is in the war on drugs. We cannot allow exaggerated rhetoric and outdated examples to destroy asset forfeiture as a law enforcement tool. I believe that this bill will strike an appropriate balance between those on the front lines of the war on drugs and advocates for reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Utah for his leadership in this matter. I want to share a few thoughts with Members of this body. I do believe in the rule of law. I believe that we ought to maintain it. I practiced full time in Federal Courts throughout my career, for almost 17 years. I respect Federal Judges and Federal law deeply. When appropriate, I have tried to support President Clinton's nominees for Federal Judgeships, because I believe a President should have some leeway in deciding who should serve on the Federal bench. 
   But I want to say a couple things about the Ninth Circuit. Since I have been in this body--a little over 2 years now--having left the practice of law as a full-time Federal prosecutor, I have had an understanding of the Ninth Circuit better than a lot of other people. I see Ninth Circuit criminal cases cited in Alabama and other areas very frequently because they are usually very pro-defendant. There will be no other criminal case in America that has been partial to a defendant in a given situation--for example a search and seizure, or something like that--and they will find a pro-defendant case in the Ninth Circuit. 
   I can say with confidence, from my experience, that the Ninth Circuit authorities are not well respected by the other circuits in America. They are out of the mainstream. In fact, the Supreme Court has begun to really rap their knuckles consistently. In 1996 and 1997, 28 cases from the Ninth Circuit went up to the U.S. Supreme Court for review, and 27 of them were reversed. In 1997 and 1998, 13 out of 17 were reversed. In 1998 and 1999, it was 14 out of 18. In the past, the numbers have been equally high--for over a decade. 
   The New York Times recently wrote that a majority of the members of the U.S. Supreme Court consider the Ninth Circuit to be a ``rogue'' circuit, a circuit out of control based on the history of their reversal rates. This is not me making this up; that is according to the New York Times. 
   I have been urging the President of the United States to nominate mainstream judges for the Ninth Circuit. That is what we are asking for. Let's get this circuit back into line so that we can have the largest circuit in America give the 20 percent of the people in the United States who are under the Ninth Circuit's jurisdiction justice consistent with the other circuits in America. These people are currently denied this justice because of their extremely liberal, activist circuit. There is no other way to say it. There was an Oregon Bar Bulletin article that studied this issue. The article examined the question of why the Ninth Circuit was being reversed so much in 1997. The article says: ``There is probably an element of truth to the claim that the Ninth Circuit has a relatively higher proportion of liberal judges than other circuits.'' It goes on to note how many are Carter and Clinton nominees. Already, a substantial majority--12 of the active 21 judges--were Carter or Clinton nominees. There is nothing wrong with that per se, however the nominees the White House has been sending to us from California have been even more liberal than the nominees President Clinton has nominated in other circuits. I don't see this kind of activism in nominees to other circuits. So the way I see this thing--and this is important for the members of this Senate to realize--we have the responsibility of advice and consent on judicial nominations. 
   That is a responsibility given to us. We have to exercise it. 
   What I have been saying to President Clinton is, Mr. President, listen to us. Let's get this circuit--this rogue circuit--back into line. Give us mainstream nominees. 
   Mr. Fisher is, in my view, a fairly liberal Clinton appointee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If I could have 1 more minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It is part of our responsibility to advise and consent. It is our duty to examine the state of justice in America, and to tell President Clinton that we are not going to continue to approve activist nominees for the Ninth Circuit. We have to have some mainstream legal talent on that circuit, not ACLU members or the like. And, if he will give us that, we will affirm them. If he does not, this Senator will oppose them. 
   I thank the Chair. I yield my time to the Senator from Utah. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this is an important day for the United States and for Alabama in the community of Anniston, Calhoun County. 
   Fort McClellan closed today. It was a casualty of the 1995 BRAC process. There was a great institution and a great installation. Thousands and hundreds of thousands of Americans served in that community. It was given to the military in the early 1900s by the people of that area in order to found this base. 
   I would like to read part of an article by Rose Livingston, writing for the Birmingham News, captioned ``Taps for Fort McClellan as final door closes.''  
   The barracks are boarded up, and barricades block their driveways. Flags have been furled and stored as mementos. Soldiers have packed up and shipped out. 
   Fort McClellan is no more. 
   The 82-year-old Army training base in Anniston finally shut its gates Thursday. It was given birth in 1917 by a community that chipped in to buy the land and donated it to their government. Its demise came at the hands of federal bean-counters, who decided in 1995 that Fort McClellan was surplus. 
   No bugle sounded, no cannon fired for the final shutdown. Those symbols were quieted after a closing ceremony in August, when soldiers were still around to march in it. Most are long gone. All that remains now is a skeleton crew to manage the base's transition from a bustling military post to a profit-generating private enterprise.  
   Indeed, we will be looking for reuse of that facility. The community has a joint power reuse authority: The Chamber of Commerce, the city of Anniston are all working to do what they can to create the kind of activity in a different way than what existed there. 
   I am pleased we had the support of this Senate to create the Center for Domestic Preparedness at Fort McClellan because Fort McClellan was a chemical training school, among other things, and we have to be able to be prepared in this Nation for the use of weapons of mass destruction. 
   So this base at least will be a small part of some of the chemical testing facilities, some of the training facilities, and training of teachers. They will be able to teach firemen and police how to respond if they are faced with a chemical or biological weapons attack in their towns and cities. 
   The people of Anniston, the people of Fort McClellan, and the people of Calhoun County are patriotic Americans. They gave the land that became Ft. McClellan, and now they will receive the land back. But they will lose a great deal of income and support. 
   The people of Anniston fought for their fort, but took the loss gracefully. They believed that chemical weapons would remain a major threat and that we ought not to close this base. I think they made a lot of good arguments. But the Commission decided otherwise, and with good grace, fortitude, and determination, they accepted it and made a determination to move to the future. I believe they will be successful in that. 
   I know time is late. We need to move on to other matters. But I did not want this day to pass before we had an opportunity to pause and recognize the extraordinary contribution of over 2,000 men and women soldiers and over 2,000 civilians who have served at that base. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Kansas for the remarks he made earlier and his commitment to revitalizing the moral fiber of this Nation. 
   I think the polls he showed that the American people consider the threat of decline in values as the greatest threat facing our country are correct. If we lose our commitment to honesty, truth, discipline, hard work, and faith, if we lose those values, our Nation could be jeopardized. I thank the Senator from Kansas for raising those points because in many ways they transcend all the other issues we are facing. 
   I know Senator BROWNBACK, the Presiding Officer tonight, was watching closely Sunday night when we had the ``Touched By An Angel'' show. They talked about a Senator who was given a challenge to go out to Sudan and see for themselves what it was like. The show could have been done about the Presiding Officer tonight because Senator BROWNBACK did that months ago. He personally went to Sudan and observed the terrible conditions there. He observed men being abused and killed. He observed women being taken into slavery and abused sexually--being bought and sold nearly into the 21st century. He was appalled by it. He has come back here and done something about that. 
   I know Dr. BILL FRIST, another Member of this body, had been there himself, to this poor, dangerous country, and helped serve with medical skills he possesses. 
   I just want to say congratulations to you, and thank you for that. I think that film could well have been written about either of you. You felt a calling to respond to the less fortunate and have done so. I believe something good is going to come out of that. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 281, S. 1606. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator GRASSLEY has an amendment at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the bill be read a third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statement relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that S. Res. 180 be discharged from the Rules Committee and, further that the Senate proceed to its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the resolution be agreed to, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statement relating to this resolution be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that S. 1515 be discharged from the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 193 introduced earlier today by Senator DODD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution and preamble be considered and agreed to, en bloc, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table without any intervening action, and that any statement be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of H.R. 2981, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statement relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate immediately proceed to executive session to consider the following nominations to the Executive Calendar: 169, 229, 230, and 234. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I further ask unanimous consent that the nominations be confirmed, the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table, any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the RECORD, the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and that the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9 a.m. on Friday, October 1. I further ask unanimous consent that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume consideration of the Labor-HHS appropriations bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene at 9 a.m. tomorrow and immediately begin 30 minutes of debate on the Collins amendment regarding diabetes. At the expiration of that debate, the Senate will proceed to a vote on the amendment. Therefore, Senators may expect the first vote at approximately 9:30 a.m. Further consideration of the Labor-HHS bill is expected during tomorrow's session of the Senate, to be followed by a period of morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 7:51 p.m., adjourned until Friday, October 1, 1999, at 9 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990929</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Washington. I appreciate his leadership and commitment to education. He is an excellent spokesman on this issue. 
   Mr. President, my daughters have graduated from public schools. My wife and I have graduated from public schools. We want to strengthen our public schools. We want to improve schools; certainly, we do. 
   What we really want to do is improve public education. We want to make it better. I believe that so strongly. It is curious to me that there are some in  this body who think there is only one way to do it--to spend an extra billion or so--and that is to spend it on 100,000 teachers, which I suppose is an issue that somebody poll tested and ran surveys on and thought that sounded like a good political way to fix education. We have to be responsible. We have to think these thing through. 
   The Gorton amendment says, OK, we want to do more than we have done. The Senator from Washington says, I will sponsor an amendment that spends more for education than the President has requested. But he wants to give the local school systems the ability to decide how to use that money. 
   As I travel around my State having town meetings in every county in my State, almost every meeting I have the local superintendent of education comes up and we talk about education. I am not hearing them tell me they want more micro-managed, targeted assistance from Washington, more regulations, more paperwork to fill out, and more controls on how they are operating to improve their education. They are not asking for that. 
   What they are saying is--and this is happening all over America; school systems are in intense self-study; Governors are in intense study of their education situation--we have to do better about how we do education. Just to say we need more teachers and that is all you can spend this money for does make good sense. 
   It is not being against education; it is not being against learning; it is not being against schools, to say we ought not to target this money for one use only. We need to be flexible. 
   What we do know is this: Class size in America is down. As a matter of fact, it has been reported that 42 States already meet the goal of 18 students per teacher; 42 States are already doing that. What is troubling--and I know the Presiding Officer, the Senator from New Hampshire, has talked passionately about this so often--is our achievement numbers are still going down. 
   When you get at the level of 16, 17, 18, 19 students per teacher, what do we know from scientific study and analysis? It is not whether it is 19 or 17 in a classroom that is key. It is the quality of the teacher, the learning environment that occurs there. Do they have the kind of textbooks and equipment needed? Do they have the resources from which that teacher can draw? Is there discipline there, or are there Federal rules and regulations hampering a teacher's ability to maintain discipline and to remove students who are disruptive from the classroom? 
   Aren't those the things my colleagues hear when they talk to teachers? That is what they are telling me. 
   I agree with the Gorton amendment, to allow the school systems to use this money--more money in this amendment than asked for by the President for education--as they see fit but without the restrictive rules and regulations and controls. 
   Why isn't that what we ought to be doing? Why is it that some people in this body have their own idea about how they have to improve education and only their way is the way to have it done? I would just say that this is a mistake. I believe it very strongly. We are all united together in our concern to improve education. But how we do it is the question. 
   My wife taught for a number of years. I taught for a year. We both were in the PTA. She was a volunteer teacher in the classroom to help teachers teach on a daily basis. I think that helps. Perhaps a program that will allow local schools to help parents to participate more directly as aides to teachers on a volunteer basis may be of far more benefit than adding 1 more teacher to a classroom and getting that number down from 19 to 18. Who knows for sure? 
   We know this: There is an intense reevaluation of education in America today. There are a lot of things we don't know. But our superintendents, our principals, our State school boards, and our Governors are having to answer to the American people about why they should continue to give more and more money to the system when progress is not occurring and in fact we are showing a decline in so many different areas in our education achievement. 
   We know that among the industrialized nations, the United States finished 19th recently out of 21 countries in mathematics and lower in science and technology. Something is afoot here. Mandating teachers without giving school systems a choice to improve education and learning is a big mistake. I certainly share that. 
   I would like to mention a few other things we ought to think about as we go through this debate. 
   The ``Washington knows best'' attitude is wrong. The federal government funds 7 percent of the money for education in America. While 93 percent comes from the States and local governments. That is what we have always believed was correct. We have always believed that we don't want a central state government educating all our children. We want our children to be educated by people we know, people who know our children's names. For the most part, that happens in America today. And we ought to enhance that. 
   But what we have found is that there are 778--get this--778 Federal education programs in existence today. That is a lot of programs. That is why the education systems are telling me: JEFF, we have to have a full-time person just to fill out the paperwork in order to comply with the federal regulations. This amendment by Senator MURRAY would add number 779, I suppose. And before the education bill goes through, we may even try to add a bunch more in addition to that. But we never go back and eliminate those that are not proving to be effective. 
   We have also found that today only 65 cents out of every dollar we dedicate to education from Washington actually gets to the classrooms where the kids are and the teachers are. To me, that is not acceptable. It is simply not acceptable. Too much of it is kept in Washington. That which gets down to the schools and the classrooms has so many strings on it and regulations and so much paperwork that it is not as effective as it ought to be. 
   I just say this: We have 50 States in this Nation that fund 93 percent of the cost of education in their States. Most of these Governors have made education a top priority. More and more, are doing everything possible to fix education in their states. We ought to give them some freedom and flexibility to be innovative, creative, to fix and improve education, and not try to run it from up here. There is just no doubt about that in my mind. 
   I know we can do a better job with education. I know we can improve the quality of American life. I know this for a fact: We would have better education if the Federal Government gave more money to the school systems with fewer strings, fewer regulations, less redtape, and less bureaucracy. 
   Somewhere, some way, we need to enhance that magic moment that occurs in a classroom, that sublime moment when a child learns, when that teacher and child communicate and good things happen. Just having 789 programs instead of 788 I don't believe is the right direction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Wyoming and appreciate so much his leadership on so many different issues. His steady hand, his wise insight, and determination to make education better in America--I certainly share that. 
   Education is critical to our Nation's strength, economically, intellectually, and morally, and in relation to our character and other things. Unity in a nation depends on good education. It includes high technology, but it also includes history, literature, art, and those kinds of things. 
   I strongly believe in public education. I am prepared to support it and do support it. I think we can do a lot for our country. 
   I was a product of public education. My wife was the product of public education. My wife taught a number of years in public schools. I taught 1 year in public schools. Our daughters graduated from a major public high school in Mobile, AL. They were active in all of the school's activities. They were annual editors of the yearbook there. It was a big part of our lives. We participated in the PTA. My wife has volunteered on regular occasions in the classroom, assisting teachers as an aide, as is done in many schools today. 
   I think those ideas are oftentimes better than spending endless amounts of money. Too often parents are not encouraged to be a part of the education process. I think they can contribute to that. So educational excellence in the classroom is what it is all about. 
   What our goal needs to be is to enhance that magic moment that occurs in a classroom between a teacher and a child when learning occurs and where excitement is present. That will benefit our children. Some of the things we have done in education over the years really cause me concern. 
   I think it is important for us, as a nation, to recall another point, and that is that the Federal Government is not the primary focus of education in this country. Ninety-three percent of the money spent on education comes from our States and localities. That is where education is run. That is a historic, fundamental view in America--that education ought to be a local process and that we do not want the Federal Government dominating all of our education and telling us how everything ought to be run. 
   But what we have learned is, over the years, for the little money the Federal Government does put forth--the 7 percent that it contributes--so much of that money goes into regulations and burdens on local schools. We understand that 50 percent of the regulations for public schools in America come from Federal programs where only 7 percent of the money is provided. 
   Currently, there are 788 Federal Government education programs. School systems, small and large, have to employee teams of people just to write grants, to figure out how they can get some of this Federal money for their school systems. And when they get the money, they cannot use it as they wish; they have to comply with burdensome federal regulations, essentially fitting some bureaucrat's idea of what ought to be done in that school. 
   One thing I have learned here is that schools across this country are different. In the school I attended in the town of Camden, AL, 30 of us graduated from high school together. Well over half of us started the first grade together in that school. It was an excellent high school. I was blessed. 
   I was at the University of Alabama this weekend, and I met the dean of the human services department there; she was my classmate in our little class of 30. Another member of that group went on to Annapolis. And others have done well. But it was a public school, a small school. 
   My daughters went to a high school that had 2,000 students. So schools are different. The needs are different in each of the 
   States. It is very difficult for the Federal Government to control and dominate and say precisely how learning should occur in every classroom across this country. I fundamentally believe that decisions about our children's education must be made by individuals who know our children's names. 
   We need to be sure that what we do in this Nation is a benefit to children and not a burden. I am really pleased to see Dr. BILL FRIST, the distinguished Senator from Tennessee, who previously presided in the Chair, because  earlier this year he led the fight for a bill we called Ed-Flex that would say: We are going to give schools more flexibility to utilize Federal dollars than they have had before in return for strict accountability. 
   It was a tough fight. Those on the other side of the aisle, the President, and all his staff, fought that bill tooth and claw--even though the educators and the teachers and principals were telling us: We badly need it. It was a battle. We did not get to go as far as we would have liked, but it was a good step in the right direction. We need to do more of that. 
   Do we really care about our children? Do we want to make sure they learn as best they can? Let's give the money to the people we elected as our school board presidents and commissioners and superintendents to run our school systems; the people who know our children's names. Those people care about children; it is not just people in this body. 
   Many of us who have little or no knowledge about education, how is it we think we know all there is to know about education? We can read a newspaper article about somebody having a good idea, so we pass a Federal program to fund it, and we end up with 788 programs that really burden education. 
   Let me tell you about a number of things that are out there. I had a letter from a good, long-time friend of mine. I was a Federal prosecutor and attorney general of Alabama. This friend, Dave Whetstone, was a district attorney in one of our larger counties for quite a number of years. Dave Whetstone ran into the IDEA Act. 
   Based on what IDEA says, children with disabilities ought not to be separated. They are supposed to be kept in the classroom. That is certainly a good principle. We ought not to separate children who don't need to be separated. But the act says, no matter what you do or how violent that child may get, they can't be removed from the classroom for more than 45 days. They have to be put back in there because of Federal law. 
   During committee hearings this year, we heard from a superintendent from Vermont who told us that over 20 percent of the education costs in the school system with which he was involved went to funding the regulations of this program. One cannot believe what it demands. In the Alabama case, there was a young man who was the subject of a Time Magazine article, ``Is This the Meanest Kid in All of Alabama?'' 
   I have met with District Attorney Whetstone to discuss this very problem because he raised the question. He wrote me a letter in late April. He said:  
   I am writing you this letter concerning my general outrage over the laws of the Federal Government and how they are being administered in relation to school violence. 
   I had already been having meetings ..... concerning the Federal Disabilities Act. 
   The general thrust of the matter is that violent children are being kept in school because of the new Federal Rules relating to disabilities. 
   I can point to at least seven to nine occasions in Baldwin County in which I believe expulsion was called for, but could not be accomplished because of the interpretation of the Disabilities Act.  
   He goes on to talk about the story of this one child. 
   In summary--Americans may not understand this--with regard to children who are really disruptive, they hire aides to not only be in the classroom to help the teacher for this one child who is disruptive, the aides go to their homes, ride the school buses with them to keep them from disrupting the bus, stay with them all day, and ride the school bus home at night. 
   That is what they were doing with this young man. He had violent tendencies. In one case on the school bus, he had an incident, and the aide tried to stop him from wrecking the school bus. He tried to wreck the school bus, and he attacked the aide. That is when the district attorney got involved and filed legal action to try to overcome this thing. 
   That is the problem we are living with, and that is driven by Federal regulations that are, in fact, reducing our ability to educate. I don't know which children ought to be kept in the classroom and which ought to be removed. I would like to see every child who can stay in a classroom stay in a classroom. I think that is extraordinarily important. But some children are so disruptive that it undermines the whole teaching process. I believe the decision must be left to the local principals and school boards. 
   I have had teachers tell me: Jeff, I can't put up with it anymore. It is too stressful for me. I am going to get out of this profession that I love as soon as I can. 
   Much of it is driven, if you talk to your friends and neighbors who teach, by discipline problems. You would not know, if you listened to these education bureaucrats in Washington, that a lot of it is driven by burdensome Federal education rules and regulations. 
   This Congress, since the Republican Party took the majority, has increased Federal funding for education 27 percent. All this talk about slashing funds for education is not true. We do believe--I certainly believe--in public education and helping public education to flourish, but we need to do it the right way. We need to do it in a way that helps teachers to achieve that sublime 
   moment when the learning occurs in a classroom and kids are motivated and they get that insight that may lead them on to a lifetime of learning. 
   I am not sure the 788 programs we have now are working. I pledge to the people of the United States, I am going to work to do all I can to continue to support our States in their efforts to educate, but I am going to try to reduce Federal regulation and Federal intervention in their schools and give them the kind of opportunities they have not had in many years to improve education in those schools. Each school does it differently. We can't mandate it from here. 
   It worked for welfare reform. Do my colleagues remember that? We said: We are going to stop mandating all these rules for every community in America. We are going to challenge the States to take the welfare money we have been spending and create programs they believe, in their State, are comprehensive and will get people off welfare and back to work. It has worked, and we have had a massive reduction in the welfare rolls. It has been good for America. 
   We can do the same for education. The Senator from Tennessee has been a national leader for education reform. He is on the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. He has been a national spokesman for it, and it has been a pleasure for me to join that committee and work with him. 
   Mr. President, I have concluded my remarks. I am pleased to yield to the distinguished Senator from Tennessee on this subject. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the need to collect good scientific data upon which the Environmental Protection Agency can establish appropriate regulations to protect human health and the environment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Has the Subcommittee from time to time, directed the EPA to fund studies related to pending regulations when there is a need? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would like to make the Senator aware of a situation in my own state of Alabama where the EPA is being forced by a court order to promulgate regulations regarding an activity called hydraulic fracturing.  
   Alabama is the second largest producer of coal bed methane in the country. The production of this clean burning fuel from coal beds has only recently become economically viable and offers a way to capture methane from coal beds which might otherwise be vented into the atmosphere during normal coal mining operations. As you know, methane is thought to be a potent contributor of the so-called ``greenhouse'' effect and has been shown to contribute the formation of ground level ozone. However, the production of methane for fuel use helps to reduce air emissions and improves our balance of trade by contributing to our overall domestic gas production. Increased production of coal bed methane should be encouraged. 
   One of the procedures needed to produce methane from coal beds is the use of hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing essentially involves the placing of water and sand down a well bore at high pressure to create microscopic fractures in the coal beds which allow methane gas to escape. Following this procedure, over 90 percent of the water and sand propping agent is pumped out of the well and disposed in compliance with all State and Federal laws. There has never been a documented case of underground water contamination resulting from this procedure. 
   The EPA never intended to regulate this procedure. However, in 1995 a lawsuit was filed against the EPA claiming that the hydraulic fracturing in Alabama should be regulated through the Underground Injection Control program established by the Safe Drinking Water Act. The EPA argued that hydraulic fracturing did not fit in the context of the Underground Injection Program, that the State of Alabama already regulated the process and that the procedure itself posed little risk to underground drinking water sources or the environment. In 1997, the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals made a technical ruling that hydraulic fracturing does in fact, constitute underground injection because it does involve the placement of fluids underground. Following the court ruling, the EPA implied that it might support a technical change to the Safe Drinking Water Act to exempt hydraulic fracturing from the Underground Injection program. However, efforts to get this technical correction passed into law were upset by the EPA who called for more time to study the issue. Unfortunately, the EPA has still not developed the scientific data to determine whether or not there is even a need for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing at all. 
   It is no wonder that the EPA has not dedicated many resources to this issue. No where in the nation has there been even a single case of groundwater contamination from hydraulic fracturing operations despite the dramatic increase in the use of this procedure over the last 15 years. In fact, based upon the data which is currently available, I believe that federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations may be an ineffective use of both federal and state resources. However, there is a need to be certain that hydraulic fracturing does not pose a threat to underground sources or drinking water and more scientific study must be completed. 
   The Geological Survey of Alabama, working in conjunction with Alabama universities, has already initiated study on the environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing operations. Because of the work which the Geological Survey has already begun, it would make an ideal institution to carry out additional studies on the impact of hydraulic fracturing and could contribute a great deal to the body of scientific data needed by the EPA. The Geological Survey has proposed an 18 month study, using $175,000 of federal funds through an EPA grant, to carefully examine the environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing operations. I would ask that the Senator from Missouri work to include language in the VA/HUD Appropriations Conference report that would direct the EPA to make this important grant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Iowa and appreciate his steadfast leadership on this issue. I also thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator HATCH, for his leadership. 
   We have worked over the past several years to produce a much needed piece of legislation, a reform of Federal bankruptcy law. Bankruptcy is provided for in the U.S. Constitution, and we have seen some remarkable changes in the last few years that demand that we reform the system. 
   Last year there were over 1.4 million bankruptcies filed in America. That comes out to almost 4,000 filings every day of the year. Since 1990, personal bankruptcies are up 94.7 percent. This dramatic increase in personal bankruptcies occurred in spite of the fact that over that same period business bankruptcies fell 31 percent and the country enjoyed a healthy and expanding economy. These statistics demonstrate there is need for reform immediately. 
   Bankruptcy exists to provide relief as a last resort for the most debt-ridden individuals. It is not a financial planning device. This bill was needed last year, but it did not pass due to the same kinds of partisanship and political tactics we have seen here today. 
   This year, I think Congress will pass this bill. I hope we will proceed to it today for a final vote. The majority leader of the Senate and the Members of this Senate have a lot of work to do this year. We have quite a number of critical appropriations bills, including the Defense appropriations that may come up later tonight. We have to consider those bills. 
   We cannot have a bankruptcy bill like the one that passed this Senate last year with 97 votes--a very similar bankruptcy bill which almost every single Senator voted for. That bill turned into a Christmas tree of amendments on every kind of unrelated issue that any Senator wanted to bring up, and I am afraid that the same thing might happen today. 
   Why is this happening? I will tell you why. Some Senators do not want this bill to pass, but they are afraid to vote against it straight up, and so they offer amendment after amendment, and they tell the majority leader: We won't have any limit. We want to offer as many amendments as we can on a number of unrelated subjects--international affairs, economics, whatever they want to bring. This means we could be here for weeks on a bill that has been debated for the last 2 years with great intensity. The Senate does not need that. The majority leader cannot allow that to happen. We will have to not proceed with it, I assume, if we cannot get cloture today. 
   A bankruptcy bill similar to this passed the House earlier this year 313-108. Senator GRASSLEY's bill came out of the Judiciary Committee 14-4. So I am proud to be a key sponsor of this. I think it makes the kind of changes we need without changing the fundamental principles that if a person is over their head in debt, helplessly unable to pay their debts, they ought to be able to wipe out those debts and start over. We have no dispute with that principle. That is a fundamental, historic principle. 
   I know it makes a lot of people mad to think that somebody does not have to pay their debts, that they can just go to court and wipe out their duly signed contract. But this country has always adhered to the view that if your debts reach a certain level and you cannot pay them, you can start afresh. 
   We do not have debtors' prisons. And I certainly agree with that. But we do have a growing trend in America in which people making $60,000, $80,000, $100,000 a year owe a significant--but not great--debt and just go into court and file straight bankruptcy under chapter 7. If they make $100,000 a year and they owe $60,000 that they could easily pay off in a period of years, they can go into bankruptcy court and wipe out their debt. These individuals can file under Chapter 7 and just not pay their debts--whether it is the guy next door, the garage mechanic, the automobile car dealer, the credit card bank note--that debt can simply be wiped out. There is no way a court can stop this behavior right now. It is not being stopped. And it is going on regularly. 
   What Senator GRASSLEY's legislation does is say to the courts: You have a duty to look at the debtor's income, to analyze what a person's income is. If they are able, over a reasonable period of time, to pay back a significant portion of their debt, they ought to pay it back. Why? Because it is a moral question. And the moral question is this: The man making $100,000, who owes $60,000 in debt--$2,000 of that may be to the mechanic who fixed his car--who ought to be paying that? 
   Who ought to get the money? The man who did the work for him and fixed his car or fixed the roof on his house? Should he be paid, or should this man be able to live in his house bankrupt and not pay his debt to the people who helped fix it for him? It is just that simple. It is a question of justice and right and wrong. 
   One provision that I worked hard to put into this bill that I think is good and very innovative is a requirement that people at least consider an approach to credit counseling before they actually file for bankruptcy. There are a number of excellent credit counseling agencies in America. They can sit down with people and negotiate with their creditors and get them to reduce the interest rates. They can help people make payment plans. They help the family put a budget together. If somebody is addicted to gambling, these credit counseling agencies can get them in Gamblers Anonymous. If they have mental health problems, they can help with that. The agencies can help them decide which debts ought to be paid first, such as the ones with the highest interest. They can negotiate on behalf of their clients delays in certain debt so they can pay others first. 
   I visited for virtually a full day at a credit counseling agency in my hometown of Mobile. I was extraordinarily impressed with what they do and the services they offer. This bill would require that, before you file for bankruptcy, you ought to at least talk to one of these credit counseling agencies. 
   We have seen what is happening today before. Senator GRASSLEY saw this at just about this time last year. We had a bill that came up and cleared the committee by an overwhelmingly  bipartisan vote--a bill that we got through this body with an overwhelming vote. I believe 97 Senators voted for it. Yet when it came back up, we had just these kinds of dilatory tactics designed to delay and put the bill off to avoid a vote. I don't know why that is true. 
   There is nothing but fairness and justice and improvement in this bill. It is time for us to respond to this growing rush of people who are claiming bankruptcy, many of whom don't deserve or need the protections of the judicial system to address their debts. We want bankruptcy to be available for those who truly need it but not for those who view it as an easy way to wipe out debts that they could pay. 
   I think we have made some real progress with this bill. I hope politics doesn't enter into the Senate's consideration of these reforms. If it does, I hope the American people will understand and look through the political tactics and the manipulation to see right through this. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990921</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise this evening in support of Chairman WARNER and the Senate Armed Services Committee Department of Defense Authorization bill S. 1059, which will be voted on tomorrow morning. This is a bill I strongly encourage my colleagues to support. It sends a powerful message to military men and women worldwide, that this body respects what they do for America each and every day, as they carry out a hundred different operations, in as many nations. We heard their voices and have done something positive in improving their quality of life and that of their families. We believe they deserve the best equipment American technology can produce. 
   The statements made by our Service Chiefs on our state of military readiness provided an azimuth for the committee back in January, and some 70+ hearings later we have a product which provides a funding level for new budget authority of $288.8 Billion, which is $8.3 Billion above the President's budget request. 
   The crisis in the Balkans followed this plea for more funding and Chairman WARNER responded with over 15 hearings on Kosovo and related activities. We learned of the shortfalls in our planning, and were proud to learn of the exploits of our men and women in uniform who have never let us down. We are, however, left to ponder the problems inherent in coalition warfare, and the direction of the new strategic concept in NATO. 
   Chinese Espionage too took us in yet another direction and the committee has responded with a real change in organization of the Department of Energy so that we do not fall once again into sloppy security awareness. This was truly a vexing problem that no doubt will haunt this nation for years to come. I hope the President will not hesitate in accepting these considered changes. This is a tough issue that warrants a firm solution. 
   Mr. President, this bill is just part of the work that lies ahead as we restore America's Defense to the status it deserves. I feel we are committed, on the Senate Armed Services Committee, to investigating the problems associated with: Cyber/Information warfare; WMD Proliferation; Chemical and Biological weapons; Organized Crime and Narco-terrorism. 
   Our troops are doing a great job the world over! They are truly the best led and trained in the world, and they deserve the best equipment, the best support and the most funding we can provide them. 
   To this end, I am please that Chairman WARNER accepted my amendment to this bill which calls for the Secretary of Defense to make the positions of the Chiefs of the Reserves and the two National Guard Directors hold three star rank. This bill mandates, it seems to me, that these key leaders, who do so much every day to help us keep the peace world-wide, must hold three star rank. I hope they soon will. 
   I again congratulate Chairman WARNER on bringing us so far in what certainly seems a short period of time. S. 1059 is a great bill. It needs all our support. I thank the Chair. 
   BAND 9/10 TRANSMITTERS
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to join and associate myself with the remarks of Senator HATCH, chairman of the Judiciary Committee. We will be having hearings tomorrow on the pardon of FALN terrorist groups. 
   I would like to share a few thoughts at this time. I feel very strongly about this matter. I spent not the 26 years that Howard Safir, who is now the Commissioner of Public Safety in New York, spent with the Department of Justice. But I spent 15 years at the Department of Justice. 
   It really troubles me. It very much saddens me to see what is happening to that Department. Senator HATCH said the Attorney General is asleep at the switch while the White House runs the Department of Justice. Too often that has been true. I hate to say that. I love that Department of Justice. I respect it. 
   On the facade of the Supreme Court, right across this street, are the words ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' I would like for people to think about a couple of things. Three-thousand people in prison in this country during the Clinton administration--more than 3,000--asked for clemency. This administration followed the procedures established by Executive order in 1893. They referred it to the Department of Justice for a background review and a recommendation. After that was done, only three--only three--had clemency granted to them. 
   A clemency is a very unusual thing. It is to allow somebody to get out of jail before they serve their full sentence imposed by a court of law and affirmed by the appellate courts of this country. So this is unusual. 
   Apparently, it was done against the objections of the people who were involved in the case who knew about it. The prosecuting attorney--the U.S. Attorney's Office--apparently recommended no. The FBI, which investigated the case, said no. The Federal Bureau of Prisons said no. 
   We don't know yet. I hope that we will find out--and I hope this administration does not stonewall--what the Pardon Attorney's recommendation was. It went on up to the Deputy Attorney General of the United States. So we need to find out what happened. It cannot be, in my view, justice. 
   Some said: Well, what if one of these 16 may not have been personally involved in the violent act? 
   I want to tell you what a conspiracy means. 
   These individuals knowingly and deliberately joined with a group, FALN, which had been involved--and well known in Puerto Rico throughout this country--in public bombings and assassinations and maiming of American people. They joined with that group. They were caught with C-4 explosives and truckloads of guns in participation of that effort. 
   I want to note what the law is on that. Under one case in the Fifth Circuit, the court held that ``A conspiracy is like a train. When a party knowingly steps aboard, he is part of the crew and accepts responsibility for the existing freight (that was already carried).'' 
   That is what we have here. There is no doubt that this group joined this criminal enterprise and participated in it and were apprehended by courageous FBI agents working undercover. There is no doubt that it was tried in a high profile case in Chicago, New York, and other places. 
   You can be sure that the Marshals Service and the FBI were guarding the judge, the jury, and the families because this was a big-time prosecution of people who were determined to destroy this country and defeat the U.S. Government. 
   That is what it was about. This was a high profile, very intense effort. It was done by prosecutors and FBI agents who willingly put their lives at risk to bring them to bear. And once they were convicted, we have not had any more bombings. It was a successful, courageous effort that saved lives in this country. 
   It is not acceptable for this President to go around the Department of Justice professionals, violating President Grover Cleveland's Executive order which he could have changed if he wished to but never did. It is the established procedure--and for reasons that I can only conclude have to be political because they certainly cannot be based on law and fact. 
   I would just say this: Justice is a fragile thing. But I would like to ask the American people and the Members of this body to think about this: What about the other 3,000 people who did not get their pardons? 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I join with the Senators from Georgia and Texas and the majority leader, TRENT LOTT, in expressing my very deep concern about what I consider to be one of the greatest miscarriages of justice I have seen in our country. 
   When the President of the United States chose to pardon these 16 terrorists, he did an act which I can only conclude is based on political reasons and not on merit, and in doing so, he has damaged the credibility of the Department of Justice, a Department of this Government I dearly love, at which I spent 15 years and have some real appreciation for 
   and have some understanding about how it works. Equal justice under law is a cornerstone of our Government. It is on our Supreme Court building right across the street, chiseled into the marble of that building, ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' 
   Before we go into the details of this matter, I suggest that there are a million or more Americans in jail at this very moment. As a Federal prosecutor, part of the Department of Justice, and U.S. attorney, I had the responsibility to preside over cases in which young men and women involved, maybe for the first time, with large amounts of cocaine and marijuana received very severe sentences for their offenses--15 years, 20 years, life without parole for people as young as 25 years of age. I have seen that in Federal court under the laws this Congress has passed for serious drug offenses. 
   Now, there are other criminal offenses in this country, and every one of those individuals has some excuse for what they did. They have some basis to claim they didn't mean it or they have changed or they have turned over a new leaf. 
   In 1893, the President of the United States issued a document, an Executive order, that transferred the investigatory power over clemency and pardons to the Department of Justice, a logical step. The country was growing and he had no ability to investigate these cases. So an office in the Department of Justice exists, known as the pardon attorney, and it is the responsibility of that office to investigate these matters. 
   Let me read to you from the current Department of Justice manual. They call it the United States Attorney's Manual. It says this when it talks about the pardon attorney:  
   The pardon attorney, under the direction of the associate Attorney General, receives and reviews all petitions for executive clemency--which is what we have here-- 
   which includes pardon after completion of the sentence, the commutation of sentence, remission of fine and reprieve, initiates necessary investigation, and prepares the Department's recommendation to the President.  
   Now, fundamentally, that is a logical requirement. The Constitution flatly gives unreviewable power to the President to pardon anyone for an offense against the United States as he so chooses. They have set up this procedure to make sure we have some sort of order and consistency, but the President ultimately has the power. I understand he has only done a few commutations --maybe as few as four--in recent years. At any rate, that is an unreviewable power. To the extent to which he does it, we don't legally have the power to stop it in this body. We might as well accept that. 
   But when the President of the United States takes a power given to him by the Constitution and he abuses it and he denigrates the orderly procedures of justice, when he elevates terrorists over other people who may well deserve pardons much more, or having their sentence cut much more, he has abused his power and abused his office, and it is the duty and responsibility of this Congress to do the only thing we can, and that is to adopt a resolution that speaks clearly that we don't accept it, don't agree with it, and we deplore it. So I salute the Senator from Georgia for preparing that resolution and presenting it and bringing it forward this day. 
   There are thousands of people in Federal prisons today--thousands of them, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands--who are more deserving of a commutation of their sentence, or a pardon, than these defendants in this case. There is no doubt about it. 
   I am quite confident, and I would be shocked if the pardon attorney who is required to do an evaluation of this approved and recommended that the President make these clemency actions. I just would be amazed if that happened. If they did, that pardon attorney needs to come before the Congress for hearings in this body and explain why they chose to have these terrorists' sentences cut and not someone else. If the person did recommend that, I 
   don't see how they are fit to remain in office. I don't see how they can look in the eyes of the mothers and fathers, as I have, of people in prison who are asking for a break on their sentences, and you tell them no, no, no, no, no--and then you give a break to these people. It is a fundamental question of justice that is so deep that a lot of people don't understand it. But we must exercise the pardon and clemency powers in this country effectively, fairly, and judiciously. The President has not done that in this case. 
   I wanted to share with the Members of this body a letter to the Wall Street Journal from just a couple of days ago, written by Deborah A. Devaney, former assistant U.S. attorney. I once was an assistant U.S. attorney. I supervised some of the finest assistant U.S. attorneys this country has ever produced for 12 years as U.S. attorney. I want to read what she said about this case. It chills my spine. This is clearly what this is about. Make no mistake about it, when Deborah Devaney and her cohorts were prosecuting these terrorists, you better believe when they came home at night and talked to their families about it, they talked about their own personal safety because these were terrorists, murderers, who suggested  they would kill the judge if they had a chance to do so. This was a courageous prosecution, and this person deserves to be heard on this subject. This is what she said:  
   As one of the FALN prosecutors, I know too much. I know the chilling evidence that convicted the petitioners--the violence and vehemence with which they conspired to wage war on all of us.  
   I am quoting her exact words:  
   I know, too, the commitment and sacrifice it took the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's Office to convict these terrorists in three separate prosecutions. 
   In the first prosecution, some of the petitioners were captured in the back of a van loaded with weapons to be used to commit armed robberies to fund the FALN operations.  
   Now, we have a President who is always talking about some new gun law to apply to some innocent American citizen. Here we have people with a van full of weapons designed to conduct armed robberies to get money to create bombs to kill American citizens, and he cuts their sentences.  
   In the second prosecution, three of the petitioners were caught on videotape in safehouses--  
   That is where they thought they had a safe house--  
   making bombs that they planned to plant at military installations.  
   So they had a house set aside to make bombs to blow up a military installation, and the FBI penetrated it, apparently, and videotaped it. Now, I will tell you, there are a lot of people in the Federal penitentiary today who deserve clemency a lot more than these, but only four others have gotten it since this President has been in office, apparently. She goes on to note:  
   Through determination and luck, the FBI was able to obtain search warrants allowing them to surreptitiously disarm those bombs at night.  
   They went in the place and disarmed the bombs as part of the undercover effort.  
   In the third prosecution, the imprisoned leader of the FALN, (whose sentence President Clinton has drastically reduced) led a conspiracy of cooperating radical groups to obtain C-4 explosives to be used to free him from Leavenworth Penitentiary --  
   He was already in jail and they were going to free him--  
   and to wage war on the American people. Most of the petitioners were convicted of seditious conspiracy, a prosecution reserved for the most serious conspiracies, that of opposing by force the authority of the United States. 
   Yet the President has seen fit to reward these conspirators simply because they were unsuccessful in their murderous attempts.  
   Well, he said, ``I pardon them because nobody was hurt.'' Now you know why nobody was hurt by this bunch. It was because they were caught in the act before they completed their crime. They were caught with a van load of guns to commit robberies, apparently, before they were able to commit the robberies. 
   They penetrated the bombmaking enterprise and caught them before they could make the bombs. Morally they are as responsible as if they had been able to carry out their intentions. There is no basis to suggest they deserve a lesser punishment or should be relieved of the just sentence that was imposed on them by a Federal judge and had it affirmed by the courts of appeals in full appellate review. 
   It goes on to note that when the news of the clemency petition broke, the White House spun the tale that Mr. Clinton was freeing only those who harmed no one. A few dedicated agents are the only people who stood in their way. 
   That is what Ms. Devaney says. Only a few dedicated agents were there, or they would have harmed someone at the risk of their very lives, I submit to you. The conspirators, she says, made every effort to murder and to maim. It is no small irony that they should be freed under the guise of humanitarianism. 
   Then she goes on. 
   Since the granting of the clemency petition, we have been subjected to the spectacle of convicted terrorists objecting to the conditions precedent to their release. 
   Isn't that a spectacle? Isn't she correct about that? He has given them a pardon--letting them out of jail. And now they are not happy because he asked them not to do violence in the future. That is too much of a burden on them, they say. 
   That is really an embarrassment to this Nation. This Nation is a great nation. The Presidency of the United States is an august office of power and prestige, and the President needs to exercise that power carefully. The world will be laughing at us over this. The world is laughing at this. 
   We ought not to be. We ought to be outraged. 
   Contrast those protestations, she says, with a poignant message of the Connors whose lives were forever diminished by the political murder of their father. There is little anyone can say to give solace, but I would like the Connor family to know that there were those who cared about the victims and fought for them, Ms. Devaney--and those FBI agents--being one of them who fought for them and who believed these crimes were the precursors to heightened domestic terrorism, and who tried very hard to protect the American people. 
   In fact, I will add that this series of prosecutions and tough sentences that were imposed by a courageous Federal judge broke the back of these terrorist acts. We have a safer country today because of it and because of the courage of the people who brought these cases successfully. 
   Then she finished. All of America ought to hear this. This is her last line.  
   I would like the Connor family to know that the American justice system did not fail them. The President did.  
   This is a real serious issue. Justice in this country is extremely important. Out of all the people who are in jail today--all over America in Federal jails, many of them convicted and serving long sentences, some of them might deserve a sentence to be cut every now and then. For some of them maybe their offenses were not so serious that a pardon after some period of time in private life living a good life would be justified. 
   I have supported, in 15 years as a Federal prosecutor, two or three pardons for people who I believe justified it. These were pardons after they had served their time--not letting them out of jail before their time was over--after they had led a good life for a number of years, and only after I thought, after fully evaluating their case, that the offenses were not so serious that a pardon would be improper. Many of those offenses may have been technical offenses, paperwork offenses, or things that were less serious. 
   But to take a terrorist, a person with a truckload of guns, 
   C-4 explosives, and plans to blow up military bases, and give them a pardon over everybody else in the prison system in America--that doesn't make sense to me. There is something afoot here. 
   I think it is important that the First Lady rejected this after the storm blew up. I think we need to know where the Vice President stands on this and what his views are on this. The President has apparently acted. I hope it is not too late for him to change his mind. But if it has been done, it has been done. It is his power. He can do it. And we can't do anything about it. 
   Let me show you what the Department of Justice U.S. Attorneys Manual, section 1-2.108 under the Office of the Pardon Attorney rubric notes about how you determine who deserves clemency. 
   With respect to commutation of sentence--that is what we are talking about here--appropriate grounds for considering clemency include disparity of sentence. Have they received a lot more sentence than somebody else of the same offense? A terminal illness--we don't have that here--and meritorious service on the part of the petitioner in some fashion. 
   Pardons after completion of the sentence usually are granted on the demonstration of good conduct for a significant period of time after release from confinement. 
   The seriousness of the offense, it goes on to say, are factors that should be considered in whether to grant clemency. 
   I think we have a number of things that we need to know about. I hope the Senator from Georgia will be having some hearings about it. We need to know. What did the Attorney General do? Did she recommend for or against this? 
   Frankly, I cannot imagine the Attorney General recommending these pardons. I am going to be shocked if she recommended it. 
   We need to know whether the pardon attorney recommended them or not. He  has a duty in this case. Did they even bypass him? 
   You will notice one other thing that is most unusual about how this process was conducted. Here it is in the Code of Federal Regulations--referring to the same subject--petitions and recommendations: Executive clemency, says the Attorney General, shall review each petition and all pertinent information developed through the investigation. 
   It says ``shall review each petition.'' 
   Is there a petition in this case? From what we have seen in the papers, there was not. These people never even asked for a pardon. They never even petitioned for a pardon to set forth why they are entitled to one. 
   According to the U.S. attorney's manual, the petition initiates a background investigation to see if it is worthwhile to go forward. 
   That, again, is an extraordinary event--the President pardoning 16 convicted terrorists sentenced to a very long time in prison who have not even petitioned for it. 
   I can't imagine that. That is beyond my comprehension. It is a threat and a diminishment to the rule of law in this country. It is an embarrassment to the justice system of our country. 
   I hope we will continue to look into it. We will find out what basis there was for it. We know the FBI opposed this clemency. We know the Federal Bureau of Prisons opposed it. Indeed, the Federal Bureau of Prisons, it is reported, have audio records indicating that some of these 16 have vowed to resume violent activities--recordings made while they were still in prison. And he has pardoned these people? 
   That is beyond my comprehension. 
   Mr. President, I hope that we will proceed with it carefully. 
   It is not a matter that is insignificant. If this is what we call politicizing justice in America, it is sad, and we need to know if that is true. We need to stand up as a nation and as a Senate, reject it, and say we will not condone politics when it comes to justice; we will not do so; we will protect the lives of Americans; we will validate the personal risk this young prosecutor and those FBI agents expended in order to apprehend these criminals and the risk and damage and suffering of the victims throughout the procedure. I hope we can do that, get to the bottom of it, and that the truth will come out. 
   To pardon somebody is so serious, if I were the pardon attorney of the United States and I recommended against these pardons, and then the President of the United States pardoned them, I don't believe I could continue to serve in that administration. I believe I would submit my resignation. 
   Every year there are thousands of requests for pardon and clemency. A lot of them are so much more deserving of this. And the President comes along, for some unknown reason to me as pardon attorney, and grants these pardons to terrorists, and I am supposed to forget that and continue to deny every day young men and women who have served sentences who are so much more deserving of a pardon. What kind of justice system is that? What kind of right and wrong is that? 
   I say to the pardon attorney who is presidentially appointed and confirmed by this Congress: We want to know your position on this. This goes for the Attorney General. We want to know what the Attorney General's recommendation was on this before it got to the President. 
   As someone who loves justice and the legal system of America, as someone who cares about its faithful execution and the laws being fairly and objectively enforced, equal justice under law, I believe we have to talk about this. We cannot let this slide. 
   I congratulate the Senator from Georgia. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, one of the key things in any pardon is that the individual is presumed to be guilty of the offenses, and when they review a pardon or a clemency it normally does not even deal with the question of guilt or innocence. It is assumed since the jury has convicted them and the case has been affirmed--and I don't think there is any doubt about these defendants. They have never even denied their involvement in these offenses. But I would like to point out that before you have clemency for individuals, they really should renounce, clearly and unequivocally, the acts which they have done. 
   You would think that would mean some of these prisoners would say that violence in these circumstances was terribly wrong, I wish I hadn't done it, I am sorry for the lives, I apologize for the destruction and devastation it has caused. But that is not the case. 
   I am reading here from the Washington Post, a newspaper here in Washington known for its pro-Clinton leanings. This is what Michael Kelly has written about this very subject, about whether or not they have renounced their wrongdoing. He says:  
   ..... none of the 16 prisoners has ever admitted to complicity in any fatal bombings or expressed specific remorse for those bombings. No one has ever apologized to the families of those murdered. The statement signed by the 12 who have accepted commutation does renounce the use of violence, but it expresses no contrition or responsibility for past actions. 
   And these selected statements distributed by the White House did not fully and honestly represent the views of the 16. Not included, for instance, was a 1998 [just last year] statement by one of the FALN leaders, Oscar Lopez Rivera, in which Rivera rejected the whole idea of contrition.  
   I am quoting here Michael Kelly in the Washington Post:  
   I cannot undo what's done. The whole idea of contrition, atonement, I have a problem with that.  
   So I will just say that is a sad event we are now proposing, to offer clemency to persons with that type of mentality. I believe this has been a colossal error, a great stain on the integrity and consistency of the Department of Justice pardon and commutation procedures. It cannot be explained to any rational person. It represents an aberrational, unfair, and unjust act that I can only conclude was driven by some forces, probably political, outside the realm of justice. It is a terrible thing. 
   I agree with the Senator from Georgia, it is important that at least this branch of Government, the Senate and the House, speak out clearly and deplore it. 
   I thank the Senate for its time and attention and I yield the floor. 
   Mr. COCHRAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. As in executive session, I ask unanimous consent that the injunction of secrecy be removed from the following convention transmitted to the Senate on September 9, 1999, by the President of the United States: 
   Convention (No. 176) Concerning Safety and Health in Mines (Treaty Document No. 106-8). 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 265, S. 28. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee substitute be agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read a third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand adjourned until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Friday, September 10. I further ask unanimous consent that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed to have expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then begin morning business time with Senators speaking for up to 10 minutes each with the following exceptions: Senator DURBIN, or his designee, 9:30 to 10:30; Senator COVERDELL, 10:30 to 11:30. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene at 9:30 a.m. and will be in a period of morning business throughout the day. As for next week, it is the intention of the majority leader to complete action on the Interior appropriations bill early next week and to begin consideration of the bankruptcy reform bill as well as any available appropriations bills. As previously announced by the leader, the next series of rollcall votes will occur on Monday, September 13, at 5 p.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990909</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 6:23 p.m., adjourned until Friday, September 10, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to join with my distinguished colleagues, Senator ENZI and Senator GRAHAM, in offering this important amendment to the fiscal year 2000 Interior appropriations legislation. This is an amendment that should be supported by anyone who is concerned about the issue of gambling, and who also believes that the Federal Government often goes too far in exerting its will on the individual States. I think that the amendment we offer today, which will prohibit taxpayers money from being expended to implement the final rule published on April 12, 1999 at 64 Federal Register 17535, is an important amendment because if it passes it will prohibit the Secretary of the Interior from unilaterally approving the expansion of casino gambling on Tribal land throughout this country, including States, like Alabama, in which a Class III gambling compact has not previously been negotiated. 
   Allow me to briefly share some of my thoughts on the importance of this amendment. As Attorney General of Alabama, I cosigned a letter with 25 other Attorneys General that was sent to the Secretary of the Interior in regards to his promulgation of the rule we seek to block today. Every Attorney General who signed that letter shared the opinion that the Secretary of the Interior did not have the legal authority to take action to promulgate regulations which gave him the authority to allow casino gambling in this manner. In fact, I previously warned the Secretary that if he attempted to implement this rule, he would immediately be sued by States throughout this country in direct challenge to these regulations, resulting in a terrible waste of resources on both the State and Federal level. Unfortunately, my prediction has come true, as the States of Florida and Alabama have filed suit to block the implementation of this rule. 
   This is an important issue for my State, which has a federally recognized tribe and which has not entered into a tribal-State gambling compact. Alabama's citizens have repeatedly rejected attempts to allow casino gambling to occur within our State. However, under the rules that the Secretary of the Interior has promulgated, he has given himself the authority to unilaterally decide whether tribes within the State will be allowed to open casinos, regardless of the opinion of the State itself, despite his obvious conflict of interest, and even in the absence of any bad faith on the part of the States. I fail to see how the Secretary of the Interior can cede himself the authority to make this determination for the people of Alabama. Allow me to quote two points from the legal analysis prepared by the States of Florida and Alabama which highlight these issues: 
   The States of Florida and Alabama point out in their lawsuit that ``under IGRA, an Indian tribe is entitled to nothing other than the expectation that a State will negotiate in good faith. If an impasse is reached in good faith under the statute, the Tribe has no alternative but to go back to the negotiating table and work out a deal. The rules significantly change this by removing any necessity for a finding that a State has failed to negotiate in good faith. The trigger in the rule would allow secretarial procedures in the case where no compact is reached within 180 days and the State imposes its Eleventh Amendment immunity.'' 
   Additionally the States' challenge points out the problems associated with the Secretary of Interior's conflict of interest. In their argument the States point out that ``the rules at issue here arrogate to the Secretary the power to decide factual and legal disputes between States and Indian Tribes related to those rights. Pursuant to 25 USC Section 2 and Section 9, the Secretary of the Interior stands in a trust relationship to the Indian tribes of this nation. The rules set up the Secretary, who is the Tribes' trustee and therefore has an irreconcilable conflict of interest as the judge of these disputes. Therefore, the rules, on their face, deny the States due process and are invalid.'' 
   Both of these points help to illustrate just how badly flawed the regulation proposed by the Secretary of the Interior is, and help underscore why Congress should be vigilant in ensuring it cannot be utilized. 
   Why is this issue so important to my State? Because in giving himself the ability to decide whether to allow tribal Class III gambling in a State, the Secretary of Interior has given himself the ability to impose great social and economic burdens on local communities throughout Alabama. Let me share with you a letter that the mayor of Wetumpka, Jo Glenn, whose community is home to property owned by a tribe, wrote me in reference to the undue burdens her town would face if the Secretary were to step in and authorize casino gambling. Mayor Glenn writes:  
   Our infrastructure and police and fire departments could not cope with the burdens this type of activity would bring. The demand for greater social services that comes to areas around gambling facilities could not be adequately funded. Please once again convey to Secretary Babbitt our city's strong and adamant opposition to the establishment of an Indian Gambling facility here.  
   Mayor Glenn's concerns have been seconded by other communities. Let me share with you an editorial that appeared in the Montgomery Advertiser in regards to regulations being discussed today. The Advertiser wrote:  
   Direct Federal negotiations with tribes without State involvement would be an unjustifiably heavy handed imposition of authority on Alabama. The decision whether to allow gambling here is too significant a decision economically, politically, socially to be made in the absence of extensive State involvement. A casino in Wetumpka--not to mention the others that would undoubtedly follow in other parts of the State--has implications far too great to allow the critical decisions to be reached in Washington. Alabama has to have a hand in this high stakes game.  
   Mr. President, the States of Alabama and Florida were correct to challenge this regulatory proposal, and the writers of the above quoted letter and editorial were correct when they voiced their objections to it. We should not allow the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate rules giving himself the authority to impose drastic economic, political and social costs on our local communities, and we should take steps now to ensure that he is unable to do so. I urge my colleagues' support for the Graham-Enzi amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I note the Senator from Kansas would like to be recognized, but I ask if I could just make a few comments about the remarks that Senator WARNER has 
   just made. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I have been honored to join the Armed Services Committee this year. Senator WARNER just took over as its new chairman. Some said we did not do anything the first part of the year, but even before the impeachment hearings came, Senator WARNER knew that we had a crisis in our defense circumstances. 
   He has served as Secretary of the Navy. He loves this country, and he loves our men and women in uniform. He decided early that we had to send a signal to reverse this 13-year trend of cutting our defense budgets, and he did that with great leadership. 
   We have now a very healthy pay raise this year for our men and women, a guaranteed pay raise in excess of the inflation rate for the next 5 years for our men and women in the services. 
   We want to send them a message that we are concerned about the rapid deployments that they are undergoing and the amount of time they spend away from their families. And we want to continue to monitor that. 
   I want to say how much I have enjoyed serving with the Senator. Members of both parties respect him and enjoy working with him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I want to say how much I respect our chairman. I believe this bill, this appropriations report, represents a commitment by our Nation to reverse the trend of decline. The chairman has supported the President when he is right. He has been prepared to oppose him when he is wrong. As to those who disagree with our firm commitment, that I know the Senator in the chair supports, to reform our nuclear labs and to bring an end to this absolute disaster of security that we have had, I am disappointed that they have not yet gotten the message that serious fundamental reform is needed. They say those words, but when we come down with a good bill that does it, they draw back and again have excuses. I hope we can work this out and the bill will pass. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the chairman. I also appreciate his leadership and those who are signing this report. I think it is a good one. 
   Mr. BROWNBACK addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank my good friend from Mississippi, the chairman of the Agriculture Appropriations committee, for his leadership on this bill and for his accepting this amendment. 
   This amendment reduces funding from the National Research Initiative Competitive Grants Program (NRI) on Nutrition, Food Quality and Health in order to target $750,000 for the continuation of Next Generation Detection and Information Systems for food pathogens and toxins at Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I received a communication from an individual who was divorced in January and found out, had they divorced in December, they would have saved almost $2,000 in taxes. 
   My question to the Senator: Does that mean the Federal Government is subsidizing divorce? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to make a few comments at this time upon the death of Judge Frank M. Johnson, Jr., a native Alabamian born in Haleyville, AL, who was appointed to the Federal bench in 1953 by President Eisenhower and who was buried today in his native Winston County, aged 80. 
   That Frank M. Johnson, Jr., was a great judge, there can be no doubt. It is appropriate and fitting that this body, which reviews and confirms all members of the judiciary, pause and consider his outstanding life. His death has attracted national attention. While I knew him and considered him a friend, I am certainly unable to effectively articulate in any adequate way what his long tenure has meant to America and to Alabama, but the impact of his life on law in America is so important, I am compelled to try. I just hope I shall be forgiven for my inadequacies. 
   Many will say that his greatness was to be found in his commitment to civil rights and his profound belief in the ideal of American freedom, which was deep and abiding. These were, indeed, powerful strengths. Others will say that his greatness is the result of his wise handling of a series of pivotal cases that changed the very nature of everyday life throughout America, cases which were at the forefront of the legal system's action to eliminate inequality before the law. Indeed, it is stunning to recall just how many important cases Judge Johnson was called upon to decide and how many of these are widely recognized today as pivotal cases in the history of American law. 
   How did it happen? How did so much of importance fall to him, and how did he, in such a crucial time, handle them with such firm confidence? 
   I tend to believe those cases and his achievements at the root arose out of his extraordinary commitment to law, to the sanctity of the courtroom, and to his passionate, ferocious commitment to truth. That was the key to his greatness. Judge Johnson always sought the truth. He demanded it even if it were not popular. He wanted it unvarnished. 
   Once the true facts in a case were ascertained, he applied those facts to the law. That was his definition of justice. Make no mistake, he was very hard working; very demanding of his outstanding clerks; and, very smart. He finished first in his class at the University of Alabama Law School in 1943. This combination of idealism, courage, industry, and intelligence when applied to his search for truth along with his brilliant legal mind was the source, I think, of his greatness. This explains how when he found himself in the middle of a revolution, he was ready, capable and possessed of the gifts and grades necessary for the challenge. 
   The historic cases he handled are almost too numerous to mention. There was the bus boycott case in which Rosa Parks, the mother of the civil rights movement, was arrested for failing to move to the back of the bus. There, he struck down Alabama's segregation law on public transportation. That was the beginning. Later, there was his order in allowing the Selma to Montgomery march in 1964, the order to integrate his alma mater, the University of Alabama, despite the famous and intense opposition by Governor George C. Wallace, the desegregation of the Alabama State Troopers, historic prison litigation cases and his mental health rulings which were quoted and followed throughout the nation. Each of these and many other cases were truly historic in effect and very significant legally. Did he go too far on occasion? Was he too much of an activist? On a few occasions, perhaps. Some would say, on occasion, the remedies that he imposed maybe went further than they should have, even though most have agreed that his findings of constitutional violations were sound. 
   But, most of the time and in most of the cases he simply followed the law as we had always known it to be, but unfortunately, not as it was being applied. 
   When the State tried to stop the Selma to Montgomery march, Judge Johnson concluded, in words quoted, in a fine obituary by J. Y. Smith in the Washington Post Sunday, that the events at the Pettus Bridge in Selma.  
   Involved nothing more than a peaceful effort on the part of Negro citizens to exercise Constitutional right: that is, the right to assemble peaceably and to petition one's government for the redress of grievances *.*.* 
   It seems basic to our Constitutional principles that the extent of the right to assemble, demonstrate, and march peaceably along the highways and streets in an orderly manner should be commensurate with the enormity of the wrongs that are being protested and petitioned against. In this case, the wrongs are enormous. The extent of the right to demonstrate against these wrongs should be determined accordingly.  
   These simple, direct and powerful words are typical of the man and his way of thinking. The years in which he presided were tumultuous, the times very tense. I remember the times. Few who were alive in those days do not. Rosa Parks and Frank Johnson-were there. They were present and participating in the commencement of a revolution and the creation of a new social order in America--a better society in which we undertook as a nation to extend equality to all people. True equality has not been fully achieved, but is indisputable that when the hammer of Rosa Parks hit the anvil of Frank Johnson, the 
   sound of freedom rang out loud and clear and to this day that sound has not been silenced. His actions, the cases he decided have caused the anvil of freedom to ring again and again, and that sound changed, not just the South and America but the entire world. 
   Though I never tried a jury case before Judge Johnson, I did have appellate cases before him when he was a member of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, to which he was appointed by President Carter in the late 1970's. I was honored to meet him occasionally when I was a United States Attorney and when I was a private attorney. I considered him a friend. He had himself been a United States Attorney and he had great respect for the office. In several ways, and at various times he made comments that affirmed me and my service. It made me feel good. Of this I am certain. If the law, in a case before Judge Johnson, and facts were on my client's side my client would win, if not, my client would lose. This was his reputation throughout the Bar and it was one of his highest accomplishments. He was respected by all members of the bar. 
   The stories told by lawyers practicing before Judge Johnson were many and some are now legendary. None were better told than those by the long time federal prosecutor, Broward Segrest, who practiced in Judge Johnson's Courtroom throughout his career. No one knew more of the courtroom events and could tell them better than Broward. 
   There were almost as many Frank Johnson stories as Bear Bryant stories. The point is this: yes, he was famous. Yes, he played an historic role in making this land of equality. And, yes, he was brilliant and fearless. He stood for what he believed in no matter what the consequences at risk to his life. But, it was not just in these great trials that one could divine the nature of his greatness. It was also in the lesser cases that he demonstrated his fierce determination to make justice come alive in his court, for every party in every case. 
   Lawyers who failed to follow the rules of court or to do an effective job  for their clients were in big trouble. Because they knew what he expected, what he demanded, they came to his court prepared and ready to do justice. 
   There is so much more than can be said. He once called himself a ``conservative hillbilly'' and that statement could be defended. To Judge Johnson, no one was above the law or above any person who appeared in his court. All were equal. Though a Republican, he was the perfect democrat--with a small ``d''. Neither power, nor wealth, nor status, nor skilled lawyering counted a whit in his court and everyone knew it. He loved democracy, fairness and justice. Judge Johnson was vigorously indignant at crime and corruption. He fully understood that those who stole or cheated were predators and were acting in violation of morality and law. This he would never tolerate. While he was always committed to providing a fair trial, he was known as a prosecutor's judge. He would not tolerate criminality. 
   Judge Johnson loved democracy and fairness and justice. He sought to make that real in his courtroom by finding the truth and skillfully, with intellectual honesty, applying the truth, the facts, to the law. As God gives us the ability to understand it, that is justice, and a judge who does not consistently, in great cases and small, at risk of his life, with skill and determination, and with courage and vision, over a long lifetime is worthy to be called great. Frank M. Johnson, Jr. is worthy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of calendar No. 166, S. 918. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee substitute amendment be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be read the third time, and passed, and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of H.R. 66, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the bill be considered read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 161, S. 305. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the committee amendments be agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator MCCAIN has an amendment at the desk. I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the amendment be considered as read and agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, there is a second amendment at the desk. I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, there is a final amendment at the desk, and I ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the amendment be agreed to, the bill be read a third time and passed, as amended, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating to the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it adjourn until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday, July 28. I further ask consent that on Wednesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will reconvene tomorrow morning at 9:30 a.m. In accordance with a previous order, the Senate will begin a cloture vote on the substitute amendment to the juvenile justice bill at 9:45 a.m. Following the vote, it is the intention of the majority leader to begin consideration of the reconciliation bill. By statute, the reconciliation bill is limited to 20 hours of debate, and therefore it is hoped that the Senate can make significant progress on that bill on Wednesday. It is expected that the Senate will complete action on that legislation on Thursday, or Friday, if necessary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 8:33 p.m., adjourned until Wednesday, July 28, 1999 at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank Senator GREGG and his staff for their tireless efforts on this legislation. I believe this legislation contains some important steps in a number of areas, including law enforcement. At this time, I would like to engage the Chairman in a discussion with regard to a new technology developed by Capstone Technologies, a company located in my state of Alabama. I think it is essential that we explore new areas of technology that can increase the effectiveness of law enforcement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Capstone Technologies developed the Warden Offender Monitoring System to aid in monitoring offenders that have been put under residential detention. The Warden is a biometric, three dimensional monitoring system using voice verification, personal history inquiry and voice recording. The Warden uses computer voice verification to identify offenders placed on residential detention. The Warden monitors the offender using a touch-tone phone, with no new equipment to install or maintain. Random calls are made by the computer to the home of the offender during the hours sanctioned by the court. The system uses the ``voiceprint'', which is recorded initially, to identify the offender on the phone. All calls are monitored and all violations identified by the computer are followed by a personal call from the staff to ensure that there are no false violations recorded. The Warden can also detect when an offender is under the influence of alcohol or other drugs. If the computer detects certain characteristics of intoxication it will report a violation immediately to the supervisor with a recommendation to conduct a sobriety test. I believe this technology could be an extremely useful tool for law enforcement. One specific area in which the Warden system might be very helpful would be in monitoring juveniles. By implementing a versatile residential detention system, we can avoid having to place our youth in jail, and possibly help parents and the individual gain control of his life before it's too late. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chairman again for his leadership and for his interest in this important issue. I look forward to working with him on this new technology in the months to come. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to engage the distinguished Senator from New Hampshire in a brief colloquy to discuss the merits of consolidating training for our Nation's First Responders. 
   Would the Senator agree consolidation of all Department of Justice first responder training under the Center for domestic Preparedness at Fort McClellan, Alabama would significantly improve the quality and level of first responder domestic preparedness training? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. Stakeholders have repeatedly stated the need for a single authoritarian point of contact for training information. Also the June 2, 1999 Report to Congress specifically recognized the requirement: ``A centrally coordinated and standardized national training program is needed to ensure an effective, integrated response and to minimize redundancy in training programs.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. OSLDPS approach to responder training is somewhat fragmented. The CDP currently oversees most DoJ training. However, in October, 2000, DoD will transfer responsibility for its Nunn-Lugar City Training program to DoJ. Current plans are to manage this new program out of OSLDPS in Washington, DC office. Consolidation of all DoJ training at the CDP would centralize all training in one organization providing a more effective, efficient use of resources. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Of the original 120 cities scheduled to receive training, only 25 will be completely finished by October 2000. Approximately 65 cities will be in some phase of training. This is a very large and complex training program requiring extensive coordination and attention to detail. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. The CDP Director and his key staff have extensive experience in planning, coordinating and executing large training programs with DoJ, DoD and other agencies. The staff also has expertise in the first responder disciplines, such as fire, law enforcement and emergency medical. The CDP is also closer and perhaps, more attuned to first responder issues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. While they have some experience in coordinating programs within the interagency arena, their primary experience has been in the area of grant formulation and execution. no one on the OSLDPS staff currently has any experience in executing a training program this large. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. Placing one organization in charge of all DoJ training has several advantages: 
   It centralizes all training and course development, curriculum standardization, assessment and instructor certification in one organization; 
   It provides more effective oversight of training and related programs; 
   Eliminates course overlap and course redundancy; 
   It facilitates coordination of training issues in the interagency community; and 
   It provides a single point of contact ``one stop shopping'' for state and local responders for all training issues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Dual-hatting the Director of the CDP as the OSLDPS Director of Training will eliminate the need for a large training coordination and oversight function/staff in Washington, DC. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Consolidation of all training at the CDP is important because it will provide a single authoritative source for training and related technical assistance and information. To this end, I am convinced that the National Guard should establish its central distance learning facility at Fort McClellan to leverage these training requirements for the 11 million First Responders in America. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank my colleague for participating in this colloquy and for his support on this issue. I, too, look forward to working with my friend from New Hampshire and other colleagues on this important issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be given 1 minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, S. 25, the Conservation and Reinvestment Act, offers a unique opportunity for the entire nation to enjoy the tangible benefits of Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas production. It redirects a portion of royalties from Outer Continental Shelf production directly back to States and local communities for environmental and conservation programs. 
   The effect of this bill will be to provide States and local communities  funding to expand and maintain parks and to enhance hunting, fishing and other outdoor recreational activities. 
   In addition, this bill would redirect a portion of Outer Continental Shelf Royalties back to the States which have endured the risks of production through the bill's Coastal Impact Assistance program. This program will provide dedicated funding to coastal States for air quality, water quality and to mitigate the environmental effects of Outer Continental Shelf infrastructure developments. 
   Alabama might use these funds to help ensure water quality in Mobile Bay, part of the National Estuary Program, and for the preservation and restoration of oyster beds and other sensitive environments areas along our coast. States may choose to establish a protected trust fund, as Alabama has with existing state royalties, in order to use the revenues in perpetuity for environmental and conservation purposes. 
   Alabama is one of only six States with active Outer Continental Shelf natural gas production off its shore and onshore infrastructure to refine and transport those resources. Alabama ranks ninth in the country for natural gas production and produced over 430 billion cubic feet of natural gas in 1994. There are four onshore refineries and numerous natural gas pipelines to process Outer Continental Shelf natural gas. The State has made a significant investment in providing the land and infrastructure to handle this production, yet has not been able to enjoy any direct royalty benefits from Outer Continental Shelf production. 
   This bill takes a step towards ensuring Alabama and the entire nation receive at least a part of the direct benefits of Outer Continental Shelf production. 
   I commend the Senator from Alaska, Mr. MURKOWSKI, and the Senator from Louisiana, Ms. LANDRIEU, for their tremendous leadership on this issue and look forward to the passage of this bill soon. 
   I express my appreciation to Senators MURKOWSKI and LANDRIEU for working on this legislation. I have worked with them from the beginning. It has good potential to allow States to retain some of the oil and gas money for remediating environmental damage from production and for improving their environmental quality in general. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to offer a few thoughts about space, the vision that is needed to take us there, and to say a few words of appreciation on the anniversary of one of the greatest accomplishments in world history. First, I recognize and thank all the people--scientists, flight operations experts, administrators, maintenance experts, astronauts, and every other member of the NASA team and Apollo program--who worked so hard to make the successful launch and mission of Saturn V to the moon a reality and victory for America. 
   When President Kennedy announced his intentions to devote the resources and support to NASA that would be necessary to accomplish the monumental task of landing men on the surface of the moon, our space program was born. Up until that magnificent moment when Neil Armstrong let everyone watching and listening know that the ``Eagle had Landed'' and for many years afterward, our space program flourished and steamed ahead making great strides in nearly every area of space exploration. Unfortunately, in recent years, while marked by continuing and important scientific medical research and several noteworthy events, our space program has become stagnant in comparison to the growing and vibrant NASA of the past. I am one member of Congress who feels very strongly that too much remains to be learned and explored for our space program to remain in neutral any longer. 
   Mr. President, on the anniversary of one of our greatest accomplishments, we have slipped dangerously close to the edge. If we do not act, we may lose one or more of the most historically significant pieces of our space program in existence. I am proud to say that one of the last three of these great artifacts remaining from the Apollo Project--the Saturn V rocket--stands on the grounds of the U.S. Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama. But the fact remains that this rocket is in need of restoration and protection. I join my colleague and fellow Alabamian, Senator SHELBY, as an original cosponsor of the resolution that has been introduced which calls upon the Congress to provide federal assistance to fund the much-needed restoration and protection projects for the Saturn V rocket at the U.S. Space and Rocket Center. This funding will enable this great monument to our space program to live on as an enduring symbol of America's greatness both here on earth and beyond. I call on my colleagues in Congress to lend the assistance that is needed to protect the great history of our space program. 
   Mr. President, as I stated earlier, I am one member of Congress who believes that NASA embodies many of the most important qualities of our nation. We are a nation of explorers and inventors--proud, hardworking and brave. Our legacy as a nation is one of unmatched proportion. We must do our part to continue to build upon the past for the benefit of our future generations. 
   Mr. President, safe, reliable, low-cost transportation has been the key to the development of frontiers from the dawn of time. Ocean-going vessels enabled the discovery of the New World and initiated global commerce. The stagecoach transported early settlers and cargo across the untamed American West, and the transcontinental railway opened up this new frontier to vast numbers of settlers. Today, modern airways are a critical element of international commerce. 
   Transportation has made it possible to explore and develop the frontiers that emerged throughout history. Thirty years ago it was a Saturn V rocket carrying three men to the moon. And now, transportation is again the driver as we boldly prepare to explore deeper and develop the largest frontier of all - the frontier of space. 
   As a nation of explorers, I would like to think that we see the opportunities for scientific research and new space industries as limitless in scope and benefit to mankind. 
   Consider the possibilities: 
   Manufacturing medicines that are far superior to drugs made on Earth. 
   Even today the work that is being lead by NASA and its Marshall Space Flight Center, in particular, in Microgravity Research is paying tremendous dividends. Already this research is saving lives. The research that will be conducted on the International Space Station will take us even farther. 
   Consider the possibility of Mining resources from orbiting bodies, or servicing large communications and remote sensing platforms in low earth orbit without bringing them back to Earth. 
   Consider: Generating cheap, clean power from the Sun, or exploring new worlds and safely, routinely and affordably transporting passengers to and from space. 
   It all sounds like science fiction today and it is because the current high cost of space transportation has locked the door to these opportunities. I believe that NASA is ready to start turning science fiction into science reality--to unlock the door to a new frontier of opportunity. 
   The problem is this, space launch is not fully and completely reliable as we want it to be and its costs have been very expensive. Current launch costs consume valuable NASA resources and limit the ability to achieve its science and exploration goals. Only the highest priority science payloads are being launched and human exploration is on hold until we can solve this problem of launch costs. 
   Launch costs have also slowed the commercial development of space. While the U.S. space program faces new challenges to its decades long, global leadership position, the U.S. commercial space launch industry has dwindled from complete market dominance in the mid-1970's to only 30% on a greatly expanded worldwide market today. The United States has lost 70% of market share to the Russians, to the French, and to the Chinese. Several factors including foreign government subsidization and the constant optimization of 30 year old technology by foreign firms are at the heart of a problem this Congress ought to solve--now! 
   While improvement and evolution of existing systems and technologies are necessary in the face of ever increasing competition abroad, it will take a revolution to open the space frontier and enable the development of space. Our investments in launch technology have been sporadic over the years, resulting in high costs and small, incremental improvements in launch safety and capability. Today, many entrepreneurs realize the significance of the expanding commercial space marketplace, but are left to solve the hard problem of access to low Earth orbit with just their innovative spirit and today's technology. 
   We have had a rash of failures of expendable launch vehicles recently; 6 of the last 8 launches have been failures. Still, NASA continues to fly the Space Shuttle safely. But that safety record comes at a high cost to the people at United Space Alliance, NASA Kennedy, Marshall, and Johnson Space Flight Center (JSC). 
   Space launch is expensive because of complex systems that require extensive checkout and human intervention. Small margins result in high 
   maintenance and replacement. Flight hardware reuse is limited. Launch facilities  and range safety operations are out of date. 
   Achieving simplicity and robust performance has never been achieved in space launch. NASA has taken the brute force approach to beating Earth's gravity by expending hardware during ascent; or they have shaved weight and squeezed the last fraction of a percent of performance from the propulsion systems--gaining performance at the expense of simplicity and robustness. 
   I have talked to the people at NASA Marshall. They have lived with the Shuttle propulsion systems and they have a lot of ideas that will make the next generation 100 times safer and 10 times cheaper than today; and their ideas don't stop there! They believe that, in 25 years, they can develop the technology that will improve safety over 10,000 times and reduce cost by 100 times that of the current Shuttles. I believe that the people at Marshall Space Flight Center, in cooperation with Stennis Space Center and the Glenn Research Center as well as other NASA scientists, can revolutionize space propulsion in the next 25 years. NASA administrator Dan Goldin shares this same view. 
   They believe that they can combine simplicity and with a robust capability that will increase reliability 100 fold while multiple abort options and safe crew escape systems will provide passenger safety equivalent to today's aircraft. They believe that they can develop the technology that will result in what they are calling ``a beautiful machine,'' safe and reliable first, then affordable. This marriage of simplicity and performance can only be obtained through major breakthroughs in space transportation technology at the basic component and system level. 
   Mr. President, it is a top priority of NASA to develop innovative space transportation technologies for commerce, civil space travel and the defense of the nation. This is not a might do task, but a must do task if this nation is to once again lead the way in space exploration. 
   Unlike the prior generation, our generation has not invested in a future of space exploration. Let's step back in time about 50 years. America and Russia were on separate paths to launch a satellite into orbit around the Earth. The Space Age had begun. In a laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania stood the world's first general purpose computer--the ENIAC. Spanning 150 feet and weighing 30 tons, ENIAC's twenty banks of flashing lights indicated the results of fourteen ten-digit multiplication processes in one second. It was one hundred times faster than a mechanical calculator, enabled by 18,000 water-cooled vacuum tubes. Tubes blew and were replaced several times an hour, but they ushered in the electronic age. 
   Only 7 years after the invention of the transistor, the first silicon-based transistorized computer was developed. Four years later a practical integrated circuit was the genesis for printing conducting channels directly on silicon surfaces. Less 
   than twenty-five years after the development of ENIAC, Intel introduced the first microprocessor, using 2,300 transistors on a 108 Kilo Hertz silicon chip. The U.S., at that time, was just beginning the development of the Space Shuttle. 
   In the 28 years since, the number of transistors on a single chip has increased from 2,300 to 7.5 million and the number of instructions per second has increased more than 3,000 times. The processor capacity has increased at a rate of a factor of two every 18 to 24 months and the cost per kilobyte of computer memory has decreased by a factor of 640,000. Today over 44% of U.S. homes have a personal computer. The Space Shuttle is still the workhorse for human space flight and remains the only reusable launch system. 
   Today it is impossible to think of a world without computers or to imagine that the ideas we developed and that we take for granted might have been strenuously resisted in the past. And while it seems barely credible today that scientists, engineers, and businessmen five decades ago didn't initially grasp the implication of this new technology--this has been the case more often than not throughout history. 
   Now let's look forward in time. Imagine a world where traveling to an orbiting space production facility is as common as making a business trip on a commercial airliner? Does this seem plausible? How probable did personal palmtop computers seem fifty years ago? Technology was the engine that enabled these breakthroughs--technology will enable safe, reliable, affordable access to space over the next twenty-five years. I believe that we will see major steps toward this goal in the next 5 to 10 years if we invest now. 
   Over the next decade, NASA intends to increase safety by a hundred fold while reducing cost tenfold. Safety will be defined as the probability of a catastrophic failure once out of every 1,000,000 flights. This dramatic leap will come by departing from a past emphasis on cost and performance to a focused new paradigm of safety and reliability, which in turn, will drive down costs. Improvements in safety will require future space transportation systems to assure crew safety from pre-launch to landing. To accomplish this, launch systems must be inherently reliable, functionally redundant wherever practical and designed to minimize or eliminate catastrophic failure modes. Next generation systems will have the ability to complete their missions with at least one engine failure from liftoff. Designs will minimize the opportunity for human error in test, checkout and operations. By incorporating a crew escape capability for all flights and reducing the number of launch elements, NASA will be able to meet their safety goals. 
   In this time-frame, launch costs will fall from current levels of $10,000 to $1,000 per pound to low earth orbit. In order to achieve this ambitious cost goal, today's multi-stage, partial and fully expendable rockets must be replaced by single stage, fully reusable systems. A single stage to orbit Reusable Launch Vehicle (RLV) can eliminate assembly and checkout costs currently associated with the large number of complex interfaces on today's Space Shuttle. Full reusability will eliminate the need to throw away expensive hardware and reduce the need for ongoing production, but a key technology will be the manufacturing technology to build large, very lightweight, composite propellant tanks and structures. The expertise that will make these lightweight structures possible is the current Shuttle tank production facility at Michoud, Louisiana. 
   Systems in 10 years will have to accommodate hundreds of missions per year and will be commercially certified for hundreds of flights. 
   This level of cost reduction has the potential to enable new, nontraditional uses of space. Taking this vital first step is comparable to the first 25 years in the development of the microprocessor when computer processors went from millions of dollars to hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
   Over the next 25 years more dramatic improvements will be enabled by an all flight crew escape system and horizontal takeoff, which allows the vehicle to abort its takeoff after reaching maximum power--much like an aircraft. Costs will fall to $100 per pound for low earth orbit missions. This low price per flight will create a 15-fold increase in the size of the current projected space launch market. This larger market will, in-turn, enable this system to be developed independent of U.S. Government financial support. The number of flights per year will jump to over 2,000, which will require certification for thousands of flights. 
   Future generations of space travel will be almost as routine as commercial air travel today. The passenger risk will be reduced to 1 fatality per 2,000,000 flights at a cost of $10 per pound to orbit. Crew escape will be eliminated as system reliability matures. In forty years, true Spaceliners will be capable of satisfying a market demand over 10,000 missions per year--acheiving near airline-like life certification. 
   Doubling and tripling the structural margin will require us to move beyond traditional rocket engine cycles to a combined air-breathing rocket cycle. These new propulsion systems could allow space vehicles to takeoff horizontally like an airplane. These air-breathing vehicles will provide greater opportunities to return to earth from orbit--a key requirement for routine commercial package delivery and military priorities. The technologies required for these systems will truly marry the best of the aeronautics and space communities. 
   The large increase in flights per year will demand that current operations  and maintenance procedures be revolutionized. Unlike the current shuttle, which requires over 5 months to 
   process with several thousand personnel, the next generation of systems will be turned around in one week with less than one hundred personnel. In contrast to the rigorous tear-downs and inspections required for the Space Shuttle's subsystems, the next generation vehicle's on-board health monitoring systems will tell the ground crews which systems need replacement before landing. Due to modern computer and display technologies, the number of personnel required on launch day will be reduced from 170 to about 10. An automated mission planning system will enable changes in payload and weather to be factored in less than twenty-four hours. The payload will be processed off-line and integrated into the vehicle the day prior to launch. Range safety will be accomplished using the Global Positioning System, reducing the number of personnel to a handful. Upon landing, the vehicle will, various ways, automatically restore itself, requiring minimal human intervention. 
   In twenty-five years, vehicles will be re-flown within one day and in forty years, within several hours with crews numbering less than ten. Fully automated ground processing systems will require only a handful of personnel to launch the vehicle. Due to the increased intelligence of on-board systems, only cursory walk-around inspections will be required between flights. Payloads will be fully containerized and loaded hours before flight. Range safety will be replaced by Aerospace Traffic Control Centers scattered around the globe, passively monitoring the multiple flights using commercial broadcast towers. 
   Today we've imagined our boundless future of space exploration on safe, affordable space transportation. 
   But, stop to think what our future will be if we don't develop the fundamental technological building blocks. To realize these ambitious goals, we must provide consistent funding for our technology programs over the next several decades. 
   What will inspire the next generation of Americans? We must not kill the spirit of the Lewis and Clark's among us. Our next great adventure is the exploration and development of space! If we continue to cut corners on our financial commitment without conquering this tremendous challenge of making space travel safe and affordable for ordinary people, we will stunt the pioneer spirit that brands us all as Americans. 
   NASA has accepted the responsibility for pushing technology because this is vitally important for our nation. The nation must focus resources on accelerated technology development if we are to remain the worldwide technology leader. We will drive the technology breakthroughs necessary to sustain and enhance U.S. military capabilities. Our Nation's defense in very dynamic times must rely on cutting-edge space launch technologies to protect our borders. 
   But low-cost space transportation is not just about surviving. It is about thriving economically. Our wildest dreams of doing business on the space frontier surely don't even begin to skim the surface of the incredible economic opportunities 
   waiting beyond the horizon. 
   Today, the X-33 and X-34 programs are making significant strides, taking us towards these goals and will provide us with new benchmarks in how to develop and operate modern reusable launch systems. Today, I want to salute NASA's goals and dreams. They are the same ones that took Apollo 11 to the Moon 30 years ago. They should be ours as well; to develop and demonstrate in flight the required technologies to win the promise of flights to low earth orbit for $100 per pound, with a 10,000 times increase over today's safety levels. 
   Mr. President, I also want to endorse NASA's approach of ``build a little, test a little, fly a little'' by performing rigorous ground testing. I believe it is imperative to move forward with our X-34 sized flight demonstrations within the next 5 years. 
   We are at a defining moment in the development of space. The key is making space transportation affordable for ordinary people. Through innovative technology development, NASA will lead our nation as we unlock the door to the final frontier. I call on all my colleagues, and indeed the citizens of our great land, to give them our support. Let us return to a time when we made our dreams a reality--let us return to being a nation of explorers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from West Virginia. I do not. I expect to follow the Senator from New Hampshire. I do not seek the floor now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I do appreciate the leadership of the Senator from West Virginia on the steel question. It is important; a company in critical condition, with 1,800 employees in Alabama and a 30-year record of business success, which has, in just the last week, gone into bankruptcy. 
   And I do believe the loan guarantee could help save that historic company. I thank the Senator for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from New Hampshire. I will delay my general remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will delay my overall remarks on this matter to deal precisely with some of the examples that have been cited. 
   There are a number of provisions in the law that allow the containment of lawsuits. Workman's comp--if a person is injured on the job, there are very limited matters for which they can sue. They do not have to prove negligence. They get compensation. They have a lot of advantages. They also are not able to sue their employer under those circumstances. Federal employees, including Senators, are not able to sue. 
   But let me say this, first and foremost, this is not a step backwards. Right now we have this limitation on lawsuits--not a banning of lawsuits, but a limitation on lawsuits under Federal law. This legislation will increase significantly the power of individual patients to protect their rights against HMOs. It does change existing law. It does move the bar much lower for patients, in a way that makes sense, that keeps costs to a minimum, but improves their access. Now we talk about offering a 2- or 4-year lawsuit in exchange for the plan we have proposed that would allow immediate access to a panel of medical experts to review your claim. 
   Let me mention some of the special cases that were discussed previously. There was a case in which the HMO had denied therapy. Under our bill, you would have the existing rights we have today to go to court, but in addition to that, you would have an internal review process by the insurance provider. In addition to that, you would be able to have an independent external review of your claim that this therapy is needed. It would require, and provide for, a person with expertise in that medical specialty who is independent of the plan. That is a major step forward for the rights of patients. We do not need to foster a jackpot justice mentality when we can get prompt, professional care. 
   With regard to the Jimmy Evans situation, what will our bill do for that? Obviously, this matter has been discussed over and over again. It hurts me to see the emotional arguments made that ignore what this bill provides. This bill says you could use a ``prudent layperson'' standard on emergency care. That means, if you believe your child needs to stop at the first hospital, you can stop there. A prudent layperson means the parent, using normal good judgment, is allowed to use that judgment about where to go in an emergency. 
   With regard to problem of cleft palate and medical necessity--we have, and have provided for, new requirements on HMOs. Ultimately, there would be an independent, medical expert to review that claim. Surgery for cleft palate is not going to be denied. That is pure scare tactics, and it is offensive to me to suggest that. You can still go to court, at any rate, for the cost of the benefit denied and still get coverage for the medical care you need. So I would say that really is discouraging. 
   With regard to the fundamentals of the appeals process, you do have to have a decisionmaking process in any complex contractual relationship. How are we going to do it? There is a clear choice. As a matter of fact, many have already discussed this. Friends on the other side of the aisle have said from the beginning that the biggest difference between our parties bills is the question of how to handle the liability issue. They want to add new lawsuits not provided for under current law to allow increased lawsuits. We want to increase the ability of patients to get prompt, cost-free, independent medical reviews for benefits denied when they need it. 
   I have heard doctors express to me they do not like dealing with bureaucrats when they need to talk about what kind of treatment their patient needs. They are frustrated about that. So this bill says: That is not good enough, HMO; if you cannot respond promptly to a physician's request that the patient receive a certain type of treatment, you are going to have to provide an independent, external expert, with a specialty related to that patient's particular medical problem, who can make a decision that is binding on the HMOs but not on the patient. Let me emphasize, it is binding on the HMO. If that expert says this treatment is needed, then it must be provided immediately. 
   I think these are the protections we want to provide. 
   This appeals process is a good plan. Basically, if a patient is denied a benefit, he or she can call the HMO for an internal review. If that is not satisfactory, he or she can demand an external review by an independent medical expert. Even after that, they still maintain the right to sue--a right which exists today. 
   I think this is a very good policy. As a matter of fact, the Senator from Massachusetts who was here in 1973 pointed out the obvious when he supported the establishment of HMOs. He said in his remarks on the Senate floor at that time these words:  
   Medical malpractice litigation has become an onerous and protracted means to resolve medical malpractice disputes. The costs are escalating with less of the medical insurance premium dollar going to compensate the injured party. The delays in resolving such disputes average up to 4 1/2 years from filing of a lawsuit. Litigation has failed to provide an efficient means to achieve a fair result for all concerned.  
   And I say amen to Senator KENNEDY. He was correct about that. This is not working. It is not the way we can assure prompt care and responses to patients, doctors and injured parties when they need help. 
   Senator KENNEDY went on to say:  
   Litigation of medical malpractice claims have not been an effective method to monitor quality health care standards.  
   I agree with that also. 
   I believe the plan proposed by the Republicans provides for a prompt, professional, low-cost, independent determination of disputes. Make no mistake about it, lawsuits are expensive. It takes 25 months--4 years, as Senator KENNEDY says--to bring one to a conclusion. Lawyers charge $200 plus an hour. The plaintiffs' lawyers charge a 40- to 50-percent contingent fee. That means if the plaintiff receives $100,000, the lawyer gets $50,000. If the plaintiff gets $1 million, the lawyer gets $500,000. The lawyers have junior partner lawyers, paralegals, law clerks, and secretaries who work with them. They take deposition after deposition after deposition. Medical experts are called. Testimonies, reports, and legal research have to be prepared. Court appearances, pretrial hearings, discovery conferences have to be arranged and briefs have to be filed. 
   There is a burden on the courts when you have lawsuits. We pay the judges salaries. The more these cases are given to them to handle, the more judges we need to handle them. The judge has law clerks. Federal judges have at least two law clerks each, bailiffs, U.S. marshals, and court clerks to handle the cases--all of whom are paid for by the taxpayers. This does not include jurors and witnesses. Let's not forget the cost of the courtroom. Go to your courthouse and find out how much a courtroom costs to build. Figure it out on a weekly basis. 
   These cases go on for 1 year, 2 years, or even 4 years before they ever reach a conclusion. 
   That is not the way to help patients who need help. Some will win millions of dollars and some will win nothing. I will tell you what else will happen. It will be routine for plaintiff lawyers, to sue a doctor or hospital--which they can already do, make no mistake. Currently, if a physician treats you improperly or the hospital commits an act of negligence or a willful act of wrongdoing, you can sue them. Now we are questioning whether you can sue the insurance company for these kinds of problems. 
   We have made progress in allowing a good review, a tough new review process. The Kennedy plan is fatally flawed. We must not allow his plan to happen. President Clinton's own hand-picked 34-member Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry refused to put  liability reform or the Democratic liability plan in their bill when they did their report for the President. They did that for a reason. They 
   considered the issue and decided it was not wise. 
   Meanwhile, for some reason the President and the Democratic Members have changed their minds. I suspect they have talked with their trial lawyer friends in the meantime and have been convinced they ought to go along with this new proposal. 
   It is not just the President's own review commission that has rejected liability expansion and more lawsuits, but major newspapers in this country as well. 
   The Los Angeles Times:  
   Bad medicine for both employees and employers driving up premiums.  
   The New York Times:  
   Jury awards in State courts for malpractice are----  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The New York Times:  
   Jury awards in State courts for malpractice are notoriously capricious and do more to reward lawyers than patients.  
   The Washington Post:  
   The threat of litigation is the wrong way to enforce rational decisionmaking.  
   This is a terrible idea. It is the wrong direction to go. It will add expense throughout the system and will not benefit patients by getting them care when they need it. This bill, as proposed, which I support, will do that. It will give patients immediate relief and expert evaluation of their claims. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Tennessee, Dr. BILL FRIST, for his leadership and effort in this bill to craft a responsible and effective piece of legislation that will increase protections substantially for consumers' medical care and do so in a way that enhances the quality of that care. Dr. FRIST is an extraordinary physician. He has given his life to medicine. He was the first person to do a lung transplant in the 
   State of Tennessee--not an inconsiderable event. The thought of that is beyond my comprehension. And he has certainly provided great leadership here. 
   One of the concerns I have heard a lot about from my doctors and dentists in the State of Alabama is that closed plans prevent patients from having any opportunity to go outside that plan to seek another physician, if that is whom they choose. As a Republican, and as an American, I believe in achieving freedom as much as we possibly can and giving people choices. So we have sought to listen to those physicians and dentists, to try to understand what they are saying and try to provide that kind of option for Americans. 
   I am glad Dr. FRIST and the leadership on this side have concurred that we can take a major step forward, that we can say that every American in one of these self-insured plans--not regulated by the State--can have the option to choose a plan that allows them to go outside that plan if they want to pay the extra expense to go to a doctor who may charge more. They would pay the difference for that extra privilege. I think that is good policy. It promotes freedom, and in this day of computers and high technology, it is not impossible to maintain the different accounting procedures that may be necessary to handle a different offering in that regard. 
   So I am excited about this step. We already have a provision in our bill that is similar to this amendment, but it doesn't provide a guarantee it in the way this one would. After talking to physicians, dentists, and small business groups, we have decided to maintain an exemption from this provision for businesses with 50-employee or less. Small businesses may be unduly burdened administratively as it may be more difficult and time-consuming for them to process claims. Furthermore, we have discovered that fewer than 4 percent of people covered under our bill are employed by these small businesses. 
   So, Mr. President, I am delighted to see this occur. I believe it will have broad-based support. The cost is negligible --almost none--because if the person chooses the point of service option, they would pay the additional cost for it. 
   I want to mention something and clarify an issue. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners testified on our bill and has written the Senate, a letter in March of this year, in which they state unequivocally that:  
   It is our belief that States should and will continue efforts to develop creative, flexible market-sensitive protections for health consumers in fully-insured plans, and Congress should focus attention on those consumers who have no protections in self-funded ERISA plans. The States have already adopted statutory and regulatory protections for consumers and fully-insured plans and have tailored these protections to meet their State's consumer health care marketplace. Many States are supplementing their existing protections during the current legislative session [right now], based upon particular circumstances within their States. We do not want States to be preempted by congressional or administrative actions.  
   What we are primarily concerned with regarding this piece of legislation is Federal ERISA plans, which States cannot regulate. That is why we are here. We are going to leave the other plans to the States who are already regulating them. 
   I see my time has expired. I will again express my delight that we are able now to say that the individuals who come in will be able to receive point-of-service option. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is correct. But we know, for example, in Alabama, only 4 percent of the self-insured plans would fall under that group because most of the self-insured plans are for the larger businesses. We have also found that, in Alabama, for example, 75 to 80 percent of the state-regulated plans already offer point-of-service choice now. So it is not as critical as it might appear. 
   We don't want to see the trend go the other way. It could turn the other way. Physicians are afraid that HMOs will build up walls and block out physicians and choice in the future. So they want this protection. I think it is legitimate, and I think the Senator favors that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. Actually, 4 percent less than 100. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Only four percent under our bill will not be guaranteed that protection, but many are already providing it. Furthermore, 75 to 80 percent of plans regulated by the state of Alabama plans do offer it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Most of those plants don't have self-insured, and they are already subject to State regulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. In the State of Alabama, and in most States, I think, the smaller companies use traditional plans that are subject to State regulations, I think our primary focus in this body has been to deal with those plans that are not regulated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I just want to say something and get it off my chest. It is offensive to me, and almost demeaning to this Senate, for people who disagree with the work that has been done by people such as Dr. BILL FRIST, and Senator COLLINS from Maine, and Senator JEFFORDS, who worked hard on this bill, to suggest that they are bought and paid for by insurance companies and HMOs. 
   I haven't talked to an HMO, but I have talked to some people who are concerned about expanding costs of health care. It is Alabama businesses. We had the Business Council of Alabama in my office just a few days ago, a group of them. It is the biggest group in the State. The first thing they said was: JEFF, please don't vote for something that is going to skyrocket health care costs. We are afraid of that. We have already got an 8-percent inflation cost increase predicted for next year; 8 percent already. You vote on a bill, the Kennedy bill, with 6 percent more? Please don't do that. We can't afford to cover our employees. They are going to lose health care. 
   And the numbers back that up. This is what we are about. 
   It offends me to have it suggested that some insurance company is here--HMOs are not even here, that I have observed. They do not care what the rules are. You tell them what the coverage is, what the rules are, and they will write the policy and up the premium to pay for it. And working Americans are going to pay for it. That is what is really unfair to me. 
   For Senators to suggest that there is a scorecard and only truth and justice and decency and fairness occur when her amendment is voted on? We have amendments. This whole bill mandates and controls and directs HMOs on behalf of patients. Everything that is in it, that is what it does. Some just want to go further, and whatever you do is never enough. There is always another amendment to go further. 
   It is a sad day when we have a group of fine Americans who worked on this legislation for 2 years or more, to present a bill that is coherent, that improves and protects the rights of people who are insured to a degree that has never happened before, and have them accused of being a tool for some special interest group. It is just not so. The Members on the other side know it, and they ought not to be saying it. It is wrong for them to do so. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990712</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I appreciate very much the outstanding remarks of the distinguished Senator from Maine on her experiences dealing with insurance issues in that State. 
   I served as attorney general of the State of Alabama until a little over 2 years ago. I worked with the State insurance commissioner on a number of important issues. Each State in our Nation has an insurance commissioner. They have for many years worked to develop specific regulations of insurance plans within their own States. 
   The reason we are here--and, in my opinion, it is for a legitimate reason --is because under the Federal law known as ERISA, certain state policies are preempted. That is what this Congress should concern itself with: the kind of health care plans that cannot be regulated by the States. States have set up policies regarding health care. They have passed regulations. The insurance departments have promulgated their own regulations to address managed care concerns in their own states, and I think it is healthy that that happens. 
   Therefore, it is appropriate that we in Congress focus only on the policies and insurance programs that fall under the federal law ERISA. 
   Many have attempted to create an aura of fear by saying that health care in America is failing and in great danger, and that people can't count on their health care anymore. That is not what the people of America are saying. I am not hearing them say that to me when I travel my State. When I have town hall meetings, they are not lining up and complaining about that issue. They are, in most instances, well satisfied. We can, and we will, help and improve health care in certain areas, but I am just not hearing really outrageous cries of widespread abuse. 
   In fact, in March of this year, March 14 to be exact, the Mobile Press Register-University of South Alabama reported a poll of Alabamians concerning their views of health care. This is the question that was asked:  
   I would like to ask you a few questions about health care. Which of the following statements best describes your family's health insurance coverage?  
   A number of potential answers was listed. The one that received the highest vote: We have sufficient health insurance coverage. Sixty-nine percent of the people in Alabama said: We have sufficient health insurance coverage for our family. 
   The second answer, which was the second highest vote getter at 7 percent, was: We probably have more coverage than we need: We have insurance, but we don't have sufficient coverage: 16 percent. We do not have health insurance at all: 6 percent. 
   Therefore, I suggest that what we in Congress need to do is recognize the fact that we have a good health care system in the United States. The first thing we should want to do is do no harm and not destroy it. When you have 76 percent of the people satisfied with their health care, then you have to conclude the system is doing well. In fact, we have the greatest health care system in the world. 
   I will make one more point. I know the Senator from Missouri would like to make some comments, and I would like to yield the floor to him. 
   The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has testified before our Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and on March 16, 1999, they sent a letter stating the official position of their association on the matter as to whether or not the federal government ought to have control over every plan in America. 
   They said this:  
   It is our belief that states should and will continue efforts to develop creative, flexible, market-sensitive protections for health consumers in fully-insured plans. Those are the plans that the States can regulate and do regulate data. 
   Congress should focus attention on those consumers who have no protections under the self-funded ERISA plans.  
   Now, that is exactly what this bill does. It focuses on those plans. 
   My time is up, and I yield the floor. I believe the legislation as proposed is precisely the course we should take. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I understand the remarks the Senators have made. It has been suggested earlier that we have had an absurd policy for years and that Cuba is not a real threat to us, certainly not as much of a threat as North Korea. I suggest if that is so--and it certainly has not been so for very long; I suggest Cuba could in the future be a threat to the United States--it is because we stood up to them. We contained them. We basically defeated them and stopped them when they had a systematic determination to subvert the Western Hemisphere and even sent troops into Africa on behalf of Russia, when there was a Soviet Union to subvert Africa for totalitarian communism. 
   That is what it was about. We have done some things that I think were necessary and have preserved democracy for this hemisphere. It is something we ought to be proud of. 
   As for Castro, it is time for him to retire. It is time for him to give it up. It is time for him to put his people above his own personal aggrandizement and lust for power. If he cares about his people, he ought to give it up. He can go to North Korea, if he wants to go to a Communist nation. 
   I don't have any sympathy for the man. I do not know why people want to go to Cuba. All the time: I want to go to Cuba, go to Cuba. Well, I would suggest maybe Honduras. Those people have suffered terrifically. There are people in Haiti we could help. I do not know why everybody wants to help a nation that is oppressing its people so much. 
   Be that as it may, there are provisions now for people to gain exemptions, if they have a just cause to do so, to go to Cuba. Those who have a legitimate reason can find a way to go there, as the Senator noted. I think we have an appropriate policy. I will oppose changing it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation to protect the health and pension benefits of thousands of clergy and lay workers. This legislation clarifies the regulatory status of church benefit programs and allows service providers to continue contracting with church plans. 
   Unfortunately, state insurance statutes, in all but three states, fail to address the legal status of these benefit programs. Thus, under some interpretations of state insurance law it is possible to conclude that these employer plans are subject to regulation as insurance companies. This uncertain legal status has caused service providers to refuse to contract with church plans--leaving these programs without the necessary tools to maximize benefits and reduce costs. 
   Recently, the Insurance Department of South Dakota informed the church benefits community that either federal or state legislation is necessary to exempt their programs from their state's insurance laws. With the possibility that 46 more states could make the same request, I believe the only practical solution is for Congress to clarify the status of these plans. That is what my legislation does. 
   Mr. President, my legislation is within the spirit of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA) of 1996 (P.L. 104-290) which not only exempted church plans from federal securities laws--providing the same treatment secular plans had previously enjoyed--but, also preempted state securities laws. This is not a unique idea. Similarly, the Internal Revenue Code includes numerous accommodations to the special circumstances of church plans. For example, the church plans which annuitize benefits are deemed not to be commercial insurers for purposes of maintaining their tax-exempt status. 
   Mr. President, I have heard from 
   ministers in my state about the urgency to move this legislation expeditiously. Indeed, Bishop Wesley Morris of the United Methodist Church visited me about this very matter. It is supported by the Church Alliance, a coalition of more than 30 denominational benefit programs, including the Presbyterian Church in America, the Rabbinical Pension Board, the Christian Brothers Service, the United Church of Christ, The United Methodist Church, the Episcopal Church, the Southern Baptist Convention and many others. 
   While these denominations may disagree about certain theological issues, they are united in providing sound health care and pension programs to their ministers and lay workers. Furthermore, while there are differing opinions with the Senate, and among ourselves, about health care legislation, there should be no disagreement that we need to protect benefit plans that serve ministers and lay workers. It makes no sense to leave these programs at the mercy of 47 different insurance laws. Every person active in his or her church knows the rising cost of health care is a problem. 
   Mr. President, I want to clarify two points with respect to preemption of State laws as provided by this legislation. The exception that allows states to enact legislation applicable to church plans is intended to permit states to regulate church plans only if a specific statute is passed by a State legislature on a stand-alone basis and the sole purpose of the statute is to regulate church plans. 
   Furthermore, I want to point that this legislation is intended to permit insurance companies and other service providers to contract with church plans regardless of whether such church plans would have been treated as multiple-employer welfare arrangements under State law, if this legislation had not been enacted. 
   Mr. President, I urge the Senate to pass this measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I express my appreciation for the excellent remarks delivered by the Senator from Missouri. He and the Senator from Minnesota have been champions of lowering the burden of government on American people since they have been in this body. They are known for that. They have given time and effort and passion to it. I really was inspired by the remarks of the Senator from Missouri. I appreciate them very much. 
   We are in a time of surplus. We have time to make some decisions about what we are going to do with that surplus. The President's own Office of Management and Budget midyear review now indicates that we will have, over 10 years, a $1 trillion surplus outside of Social Security available to us. 
   I suggest we have to consider allowing working Americans to keep more of what they earn. That is clearly a policy that will nurture freedom. The more money we take from individuals, the more we take from families, the more we shift it to a burdensome bureaucracy in Washington, the more we diminish their freedom, their power vis-a-vis the government. The government is strengthened. The individual and family is weakened. It is just that simple. The power to tax is the power to destroy. A tax diminishes freedom. It penalizes certain behavior, and it encourages other behavior. 
   I think we have to be honest with ourselves. This great economy has done some wonderful things for America. We are also finding that people are moving up in the tax brackets, higher and higher tax brackets, meaning they are paying a higher percentage of their income to the government each year. And the sad fact is that the total percentage of the gross domestic product; that is, of all goods and services produced in America, is increasing. According to the Federal Government's own statistics, in 1992, when this administration took office, before the big tax increase, we were sending 17.6 percent of the gross domestic product to the Government. It will reach 20.7 this year or next year--a steady increase. 
   To say that tax decreases are going to destroy the Government and somehow result in a massive reduction in funds to the Government is silly. The year before last we rolled back one-third of the 1993 huge tax increase that the administration pushed for. We rolled that back and included within it a $500 per child tax credit. I know the Senator from Wyoming, the Presiding Officer, was a supporter of that, and the Senator from Minnesota, was a big supporter of that $500 per child tax credit. I made it one of my highest priorities and worked extremely hard to see that that became a reality. 
   They say: Well, you can't afford a tax cut. If you have a tax cut, we will increase our deficit. That has not happened. In fact, we are continuing to see surpluses accrue. 
   But what I want to ask the American people to do is think about this: A family with three children making $35,000 a year, or $45,000 a year, will now receive a tax credit--not a tax deduction but a $500 reduction in the amount of money they have to pay in taxes to the Government for each of those children--$1,500. They will be getting those refunds this spring. Many have already received those refunds--$1,500 for a family. That is $120 per month tax free for a family to use for things. 
   If there is somebody struggling today, as the Senator from 
   Missouri noted, it is working families. It is expensive. They will have $120 a month to buy shoes with, or maybe a new set of tires for the car, or maybe money so the child can go on a school trip that they would like for them to go on but are wondering how they are going to pay for it. They will get it every month, because this Congress said, no, we are not going to keep taking this money from the families; we are going to allow you to keep it and use it as you see fit. 
   Who cares more about children than a mother who cares about her children? Who can best decide what they need than the family? 
   It is a myth that if you do not vote for more and more and bigger programs, you love your children less. That is an incorrect statement. It really offends me, because what we are doing is taking that money from families who love their children and who know their children's names. Nobody in Washington knows my children's names or the names of children in Alabama. They can't possibly utilize resources as effectively as the people who love them and who are raising them. 
   I really believe that was a nice step forward. But it was just one step. I am proud that we accomplished that. It took some effort. It looked as if it wasn't going to happen, until finally the American people understood what was being talked about. They realized that it was in fact possible to achieve it, and the people started speaking. The Congress--some of those who objected--got the message, and the President got the message. He signed that bill. So we are looking at a continual possibility of a surplus in the future. 
   I am concerned that we are showing an unhealthy increase in the amount taken by Government. I think it is time to send some of that back to our people. We can make reform of Social Security, we can secure Medicare, and I am absolutely strongly committed to the Social Security lockbox--to setting aside our Social Security surplus so we don't spend it, and making sure it is there to allow us to strengthen and improve Social Security. 
   That is the first step. If we spend the Social Security surplus by new and bigger programs--there is always some new program that somebody has--we are not going to have it to save Social Security. 
   Likewise, we have an opportunity with a non-Social Security surplus--this $1 trillion, this $1,000 billion, that will be ours in the next decade--to make a decision: Are we going to allow the Government to grow and become more and more a dominating force in our lives, or are we going to encourage families and freedom and prosperity? 
   Just for example, I support and am working very hard on a program I call ``The Class Act.'' Most States--42 States now--have a plan called a prepaid college tuition plan where you can buy into college tuition, invest your money into it as your children grow, so much a month, how you choose, and when your child gets to the age to go to college, it can be paid for. 
   We found that the Federal Government taxes all the interest that accrues on that money. The Federal Government is taxing and penalizing families who are doing the right thing by saving for their children's college education at the same time that we are providing tax breaks, interest rate breaks, and interest deferred payments to people who borrow for college. As a result, we have found that borrowing in the last decade has tripled--three times what it was in the previous decade. And 
   savings are down. 
   Good government policy calls on us and demands of us that we encourage  the highest and best qualities in people. Taxing and penalizing people who save, and at the same time subsidizing people who borrow, which we need to do--people need to be helped in borrowing to go to college; we are not eliminating any of those programs--is wrongheaded. It is not encouraging our highest and best instinct as a people. 
   We are different from the rest of the world. This was never a government-dominated country. It has never been run by a king. It has never been run by a totalitarian Communist dictator. It is made up of millions of independent, free Americans who respect themselves and their communities and care about themselves and their communities. 
   We don't believe the Government ought to do everything for us. People are prepared in this country, as a part of our very character as a people, to take care of themselves whenever they can. But if the Government continues to take more of their wealth and take more of the money they earn every month, making it more and more difficult for them to meet their responsibilities, then they tend to look to Government to fund them. 
   That is not a good trend for us. This is basic. This represents a basic divide in this Senate and right down the hall in the Congress between people whose visions differ about the nature of our country. 
   I say let's celebrate our character of individualism, personal responsibility, personal integrity, good financial management, and frugality. Let's encourage savings and not tax people's money who save. 
   I think it is time for us as a nation to think about this. We dare not get into a big spending program. We do not dare start taxing and spending again. We have an opportunity for a historic time for America. I am proud to join with the Senator from Minnesota in promoting it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I would like to note that the Senate will now be in a period of morning business until 1 p.m. Following morning business, the Senate will resume consideration of the agriculture appropriations bill. Under a previous order, the Senate will begin a series of up to four stacked cloture votes at 5:30 p.m. Those votes will be on invoking cloture on the agriculture appropriations bill, followed by cloture on the motion to proceed to the transportation appropriations bill, cloture on the motion to proceed to the Commerce-State-Justice appropriations bill, and cloture on the motion to proceed to foreign operations appropriations. Therefore, Senators can expect the first vote to begin at 5:30 p.m. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation which will simplify and update a provision of the Tax Code that affects the sale of timber. It is both a simplification measure and a fairness measure. We call it the Timber Tax Simplification Act of 1999. 
   Under the current law, landowners who are occasional sellers of timber are often classified by the Internal Revenue Service as ``dealers.'' As a result, the small landowner is forced to choose, because of the Tax Code, a method of selling timber that they  may not prefer. Fundamentally, there are two methods of selling timber. The first method is known as ``lump sum'' sales, and it is the most popular, but it is subject to a higher tax rate. The second method, pay-as-cut sales, allows for lower capital gains treatment but results in the landowner having to accept unnecessary risks throughout the timber selling process. 
   Why, one might ask, do these conflicting incentives exist for our Nation's timber growers? Earlier in the century, outright, or ``lump sum,'' sales on a cash advance basis were associated with a ``cut-and-run'' mentality that did not promote good forest management. ``Pay-as-cut'' sales, in which a timber owner is only paid for timber as it is actually harvested and taken to the mill, were associated with ``enlightened'' resource management. Consequently, Congress, in 1943, in an effort to provide an incentive for this preferred method, passed legislation that allowed capital gains treatment under section 631(b) of the IRS Code for ``pay-as-cut'' plan sales, leaving the ``lump sum'' sales to pay a much higher rate of tax. It is said that President Roosevelt was not in favor of the bill and almost vetoed it. Ultimately, however, he signed it into law. 
   Today, however, section 631(b), along with many other provisions of the IRS Code, is completely outdated. Forest management practices are much different from what they were in 1943, and ``lump sum'' sales are no longer associated with poor forest management. Indeed, there is very little poor forest management today. People recognize the value of timberland, and timber is almost never cut without being properly replanted. While there are occasional special situations when other methods may be more appropriate, most timber owners prefer the ``lump sum'' method, over the ``pay-as-cut'' method. 
   The reasons are simple. When a timber sale is entered into, the title to the timber is transferred on the closing of the sale. Once a contract is assigned, the buyer, who is often a corporation, a sawmill, or a corporate timber company, assumes the risk of any physical loss to the timber due to fire, insects, disease, or storms. Furthermore, the price to be paid for the timber is determined and received by the landowner at the time of the sale. 
   In addition, such a ``lump sum'' sale best protects the rights of the landowner, by preventing delays not only in the actual cutting and harvesting of the timber, but in the receiving of payments. 
   Unfortunately, in order for timber owners to qualify for the favorable capital gains treatment, they are virtually forced to market their timber on a ``pay-as-cut'' basis under section 631(b), which requires landowners to sell their timber with a ``retained economic interest.'' This means that the landowner, not the buyer, must bear the risk of any physical loss during the time period contracted with the buyer to harvest the timber. Furthermore, the buyer pays for only the timber that is actually harvested. As a result, this type of sale can be subject to fraud and abuse by the timber buyer. 
   Since the buyer pays only for the timber that is removed and scaled, there is an incentive to waste poor quality timber--by breaking the tree during the logging process--underscale the timber, or remove the timber without scaling. 
   Many different valuation methods can be utilized by sophisticated buyers against a landowner; the landowner may not fully realize how the timber is being priced, and even then he is paid only when the timber is delivered to the mill at a certain complicated rate. 
   But because 631(b) provides for the favorable tax treatment, many landowners are forced into exposing themselves to unnecessary risk of loss and complications by having to market their timber in this manner instead of the more preferred ``lump-sum'' method. 
   Like many of the provisions in the Tax Code, section 631(b) is outdated and prevents good forestry management. Timber farmers, that have usually spent decades producing their crop, should be able to receive equal tax treatment regardless of the method used for marketing their timber. 
   The IRS has no business--and, in effect, it does--stepping in and dictating the kind of sales contract a landowner must choose. 
   The legislation I have introduced will provide greater consistency by removing the exclusive ``retained economic interest'' requirement in the Internal Revenue Code section 631(b). This change has been supported or suggested by a number of groups for tax simplification purposes, including positive comments from Internal Revenue Service officials who have indicated they see no reason for this present law. 
   The Joint Committee on Taxation has studied this legislation to consider what impact it might have on the Treasury and found that it would have no real cost--only a ``negligible impact'' according to their analysis. 
   Reform of 631(b) is important to our Nation's nonindustrial, private landowners because it will improve the economic viability of their forestry investments and protect the taxpayer from unnecessary exposure to risk of loss. This in turn will benefit the entire forest products industry, the U.S. economy, and especially the small landowners. 
   So I urge my colleagues to join me and Senator PAUL COVERDELL, of Georgia, who is a cosponsor of this legislation, in this effort to simplify the Tax Code and to promote good forestry management. 
   There is simply no longer any need for this bizarre, complex tax regulation that is driving individual landowners to make choices they would not otherwise make. Choices that cost them money and unnecessarily shift risk in a way that ought to be decided among the parties--the buyer and the seller--and not the Internal Revenue Service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would like to comment on the bill, but if we could have a few minutes for a quorum call, that would be good. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am pleased to join with the senior Senator from Alabama as we support this piece of legislation that I believe will help the American steel industry. It is not an industry that has stuck its head in the sand, that has failed to modernize, that is not competitive. The steel industry has gone through very difficult times and has, in fact, been able to make itself competitive and is able to sell steel products in this country cheaper than foreign imports can be sold here. That is good for America because it means that Americans are working to produce that steel. It is an important thing for this country. 
   I really want to say that I have visited Gulf State Steel in Gadsden, Alabama, where my wife grew up. It is the largest employer there, 1,800 or so people. I have visited there at least three times and I felt the fire in that furnace. I met with the people who work there. They are producing steel at world class competitive prices, and they are continuing to get better. They are going to continue to get better. But we have had this circumstance of a crisis around the world in foreign countries, desperate for American dollars, and they have sold their steel here below cost. 
   You may say, well, that helps the automobile industry, or whatever. Maybe you could make that argument. It is an economic argument that people like to make. But I suggest, and believe strongly, that what is happening is we have a potential in this period of dumping to destroy significant segments of our steel industry, which will in the future, and soon, be 
   competitive again. Do you see what happened? Through these cut-rate imports, sold below cost, it can sink companies like Gulf State Steel. They are struggling to survive. Many of these people have been working at that steel mill for many, many years. Some of them are children of people who worked there. If they weren't competitive, OK; but they have been competitive. They have made the needed changes, and this short-term dumping has the ability to sink those companies. This loan program, I believe, will deal with that. 
   There is no doubt that dumping has occurred and that it has materially injured this industry. There is no doubt that the Clinton administration knew that illegal dumping was occurring, and they failed to take the kind of decisive action that would have ended the problem months ago. So I am offering my support for this bill, which will take a modest step toward helping steel companies and small oil and gas companies who have been victimized by illegal dumping. 
   The Department of Commerce has determined that illegal dumping of steel into the U.S. market began in 1997. During the fourth quarter of 1997, there were 7 million tons of steel imported. But within a year, that number had totaled 11 million tons, which is a 55 percent increase. Is that explained because of some technical breakthrough by foreign competitors that reduced their costs? Did American steel companies who have been on the cutting edge of efficient production suddenly revert to outdated production methods? Did U.S. steelworkers, who produce more steel per worker than any other in the world, lose their edge? The answer is no. 
   U.S. steelworkers and companies did not lose a share of the market because of inefficiency or a sudden improvement in the competitors' efficiency. The steel that came into our market was below production cost prices because countries like Russia, Brazil, Japan and Indonesia were subject to a currency crisis and needed U.S. dollars. Because the administration had a history of not enforcing these trade laws, sometimes as a back doorway to implement foreign policy goals, our overseas competitors saw an opportunity to dump steel and get this hard currency. Unfortunately, our foreign policy goals came at the expense of steelworkers and their families. Despite repeated calls from Congress, including myself, there has been an insufficient response to date. 
   Even in the face of indisputable evidence that dumping was occurring, we have not stopped the wave of illegal imports flooding our shores. In November of 1998, the U.S. International Trade Commission, an independent commission that examines illegal trade practices, determined that dumping as defined in that agreement was in fact occurring. It was not until 4 months later, and over a year after the problem was first identified, the Department of Commerce finally began to enforce  trade laws and placed a tariff, a preliminary dumping margin, on steel imported for Brazil and Japan in February of 1999. This enforcement action was narrowly focused and left out some of the biggest countries, such as Russia, which were found to be dumping steel on the U.S. market. Adding insult to injury, the Secretary of Commerce entered into a suspension agreement with Russia. The practical effect of this was to end the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission's trade investigations of Russia. It did nothing to discourage future dumping by Russia or any other country. In fact, the suspension agreement may have actually rewarded Russia 
   for its illegal trade practices by sending the stark message that there is no adverse consequences for committing or attempting to commit trade crimes against the United States. The worst that may happen if you commit trade crimes against the U.S., under this climate, is a polite request through a suspension agreement to please stop. 
   The administration's actions have been too little too late. The suspension agreement should be viewed as an ineffective method. This action will undoubtedly lead to additional dumping by other countries. Thousands of good jobs in this country have already been lost. The pattern of poor action and inaction taken by this administration will undoubtedly set groundwork for future job losses and create a crisis that we need to be concerned about. 
   The United States must not sit idly by and allow its economic strength to be damaged by consistent, unfair trade practices. We must respond to that. In Alabama, there are a number of steel companies that have been injured. Gulf State Steel, as I mentioned, in Gadsden has been directly impacted by imports. As a result, employees and families have been faced with increasing uncertainty about the future of their very facility. The production methods used and the caliber of the workforce at Gulf State and other steel plants--many of them are in Alabama--make this industry one of the most efficient in the world. Alabama steelworkers can compete effectively with other countries in the United States and indeed throughout the world. The current financial problems faced by our domestic steel makers are not the result of poor management, outdated equipment, or an underskilled workforce; rather, it is the direct consequences of illegal dumping of foreign imports into the United States. If Gulf State Steel was to cease operations as a result of illegal dumping, it would force dismissal of nearly 2,000 workers. According to an economic impact study conducted by Auburn University, the economic impact of a plant closing would be staggering to Etowah County, which has already seen one plant close of 1,300 people. Direct job losses would exceed 1,800 workers. Indirect job losses would total 3,020. Statewide job losses would total 4,820, and the overall economic impact on Etowah County would exceed $300 million. This is just one example of the crisis dozens of steel companies now face throughout the United States. 
   The steel, oil and gas loan bill we are considering today is a modest solution to assist these companies that have been already injured by illegal trade practices. 
   It is not a handout. It is not corporate welfare. It is a loan program designed to give these companies which might otherwise be faced with bankruptcy--some are faced with bankruptcy right now--an opportunity to recover the damages they have suffered at the hands of unfair trade practices. 
   While this bill would authorize a highly qualified board to offer heavily secured loans to the distressed owing up to $1 billion, it will not cost $1 billion. The Congressional Budget Office has put the total cost at $247 million. The Congressional Budget Office takes into account the fact that some companies which might receive loans have been damaged beyond the point of recovery, which could result in some defaults. But the cost of inaction is much greater. In Etowah County alone, Auburn University's economic study put the cost of bankruptcy for just this one steel company at over $300 million. This figure doesn't even account for the tremendous social costs associated with the loss of jobs and income to families employed by this company. 
   I want to say I support free trade. I do not believe in providing unjustified economic assistance to companies. I don't believe in erecting unwise and unjustified trade barriers. 
   This bill would not hurt free trade. It would instead provide modest assistance to the companies and their employees who have been injured by the rampant proliferation of illegal trade practices that we have permitted to occur, and that this administration has permitted to occur too long. 
   I believe that we have a situation much akin to maybe people on the edge of water, a body of water. The water doesn't reach their level, and they have been able to survive and live for a long time. But a giant wave comes along one time, and the wave hits them with such an impact that they are knocked down and they are destroyed. We have had a wave of illegal imports. It has been declared by an agency to be illegal. That wave that hit our country has destabilized and undermined the strength of a number of different steel companies and, therefore, jeopardized the jobs of many Americans and incomes to the country. 
   When you are in bankruptcy, it is hard to get a loan. It is hard to get financing if you are in bankruptcy, or on the verge of it. So this would allow these companies to get this income to continue to operate. 
   Once we end the dumping, we are going to be back to a circumstance in which they can continue to operate and make a profit, as they were before this occurred. 
   I believe it is justified. 
   I see the senior Senator from West Virginia, Mr. BYRD, who has worked so hard, and Senator DOMENICI and others. I am pleased to support him in this effort. I believe that somehow, some way, when this thing is over, we will have been able to provide some assistance to these companies to enable them to survive and continue to be productive contributors to our Nation's economy. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I have a number of matters before we close up for the evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I just left a marvelous event in which Mr. John Edwards of my hometown of Mobile, AL, was recognized nationally for his selfless service to youth. He had been trained as a boxer and has done some professional boxing. 
   Mr. Edwards has two children. He trains now 18 to 36 young people in a gym. He works two jobs and trains them on the side. He does more than just teach them boxing; he teaches them how to work, how to save, how to manage money, and the important characteristics that are necessary for life. 
   He told me, when they come there, the first thing he asks them to produce is a report card. If it is not good enough, he puts them on sort of his own probation, and he works with them to see their grades improve. 
   I just believe there are more people than we realize in America today who are giving of themselves for other people. 
   Mr. Edwards shared that. It is important to me because I chair the Youth Violence Committee. Young people are in trouble today, and they need adults who care about them and who will spend time with them. There are people like Mr. Edwards who have done that to an extraordinary degree, and we salute all of them. 
   I particularly congratulate Mr. Edwards on his commitment to his community and my hometown of Mobile, AL. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Con. Res. 40, introduced earlier today by Senators LOTT, DASCHLE, and others. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the concurrent resolution and preamble be agreed to, en bloc; that the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements relating thereto be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. In executive session, I ask unanimous consent, on behalf of the majority leader, that the nomination of Richard Morningstar be discharged from the Foreign Relations Committee, and that the Senate proceed to its consideration. I further ask unanimous consent that the nomination be confirmed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, any statements relating to the nomination be printed at the appropriate place in the RECORD, the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action, and the Senate then return to legislative session. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator STROM THURMOND, I ask unanimous consent that the privilege of the floor be granted to Ernie Coggins, a legislative fellow, during the pendency of the emergency steel loan guarantee program and emergency steel, oil and gas loan guarantee program, H.R. 1664. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 9:30 a.m. on Friday, June 18. I further ask that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed to have expired, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate proceed to a final passage vote relative to the oil, gas, steel loan program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I further ask that following that vote, the Senate proceed to the State Department authorization bill under a previous consent agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, tomorrow the Senate will convene at 9:30 a.m. and proceed immediately to a rollcall vote on passage of H.R. 1664. Following that vote, the Senate will begin the State Department authorization bill. Several amendments are expected to be offered. Therefore, additional votes could occur until the hour of 11:45 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent the Senate stand in adjournment, under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 7:17 p.m., adjourned until Friday, June 18, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to comment on this extremely important bill. I congratulate Senator MCCAIN for his leadership. I am confident it will pass with a strong vote. 
   This morning we completed our second day of a joint economic committee on the high-tech national summit. We have heard some of the leading practitioners of computer business in America, including Alan Greenspan and the president of MIT, and we have discussed the tremendous role computers and high-tech equipment have played in the economic growth of this country. 
   Most people may not know that for a number of years the average wage of Americans has been increasing twice as fast as the cost of living. That is exactly what we want in America. We want productivity. That occurs because of an increase in the productivity of our workforce. 
   Mr. Greenspan, who everybody recognizes is such a knowledgeable person about our economy, attributes that primarily to the increased productivity that has come from being on line with our computer systems. 
   Experts, including Bill Gates of Microsoft, talked about the leading exports from the United States being computer related. 
   This is good for America. We are buying more than we take in. We are selling less than we buy. We need to change that. We need to increase our exports. The one industry that is strong in that record is the computer industry. 
   Craig Barrett of Intel testified yesterday. I asked him about the Y2K bill. He said it was critical for their industry to maintain economic growth. 
   Some say they can pay, and we can sue and sue. I know one Senator mentioned a case, and I believe it was the same case, in which a man testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee. He had filed a lawsuit over the computers in his company. He eventually won. I asked him how long it took. The litigation took 2 years. 
   With regard to asbestos, we have 200,000 lawsuits completed, 200,000 pending, with another 200,000 expected. They are filed all over this country. Do we want hundreds of thousands, perhaps even a million or more, lawsuits filed in every court in America, with every single case clogging those courts, distracting the computer companies from fixing the problem, trying to defend against the litigation with punitive damages and other unexpected costs that somebody might claim in a lawsuit? 
   We need to act. It is the responsibility of Congress to set the standards for lawsuits. We have every right to do that. That is what the legislative branch does. 
   We have an industry that deals throughout the United States. It deals throughout the world. We need to make sure it fixes the problem--and focuses on fixing the problem, not on draining its resources. 
   With regard to asbestos, 70 percent of the asbestos companies are now in bankruptcy, and of the money they paid out through this litigation onslaught, only 40 percent actually got to the victims. 
   What I think this bill is intended to do, with strong bipartisan support, is to make sure the moneys these companies spend are spent on fixing the problem. The idea that somehow joint and several liability is horrible is not so. Many States already have joint and several liability in every aspect of their legal system. We are simply saying for this one problem we will have joint and several liability. Frankly, I think that is the better way to go. Why should a company that is not responsible but for 10 percent of the problem pay the whole cost of the problem? What is just about that? I don't think that is a good argument. 
   We have a potential crisis in our country. We have the potential, make no mistake about it, to significantly damage our highest and most productive industry, the industry that has led to our economic growth and increased wages for American workers. 
   We are endangering that community. If anyone thinks hundreds of thousands of lawsuits filed against all our computer companies in every county in America will not drain them of creativity, will not drain them of research and development, will not reduce their ability to be competitive in the world, I suggest that person is clearly wrong. 
   I thank Senator WYDEN and Senator DODD, on that side, and Senators MCCAIN and HATCH, who have worked on this bill. They have done a good job, and I am pleased to support it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I associate myself with the excellent analysis by Senator HATCH. He chairs the Judiciary Committee. He has had hearings on this very problem. I think he has explained the situation very well. 
   We need, in the course of dealing with computer Y2K problems, a uniform national rule. That is what we are attempting to do here. One of the great problems for the computer industry is that they are subject to 50 different State laws. The question is, Can they be unfairly abused in the process of massive litigation? I suggest that they could be, and actually that the entire industry could be placed in serious jeopardy. 
   I recall the hearings we had in the Judiciary Committee on asbestos. There were 200,000 asbestos cases already concluded, and 200,000 more are pending. Some say another 200,000 may be filed. What we know, however, is that in that litigation 70 percent of the asbestos companies are now in bankruptcy. We do not have all the lawsuits completed yet. 
   We also know that only 40 percent of the money they paid out actually got to the victims of this asbestos disease. That is not the way to do it, and that is what is going to happen in this case. 
   What the Senator from North Carolina is basically arguing is for each State to keep its own economic loss rule, as I would understand his argument. But the problem with this is that a clever State could run out tomorrow and change its economic loss rule, or the court could rule and allow a few States to drain this industry, while other States are maintaining the national rule. 
   First and foremost, the economic loss rule is a traditional rule of law. This statute basically says that. We will use a national rule for economic loss. It is a significant issue because we are blurring the differences between tort and contract. 
   Alabama used to have common law pleading in which they were very careful about how you pled a case. You had to plead in contract or you had to plead in tort. If you pled in contract, you were entitled to certain damages. If you pled in tort, you were entitled to other damages. But you had to prove different elements under each one to get a recovery. The courts have said certain actions are not tort and certain action are not contract--they are only one. 
   This legislation that is proposed would say, let's accept the national rule, the rule that has been clearly approved by the U.S. Supreme Court. Senator HATCH quoted from the U.S. Supreme Court in a unanimous verdict in approving this economic loss rule. 
   I think it would be a big mistake for us to go back to the 50-State rule instead of the uniform rule so that we can get through this one problem, the Y2K problem, and limit liability and focus our attention on fixing the problem rather than lawsuits. If we have lawsuits in every single county in America, we are not going to have 200,000, we are going to have 400,000, or more. We have to end that. I know my time is up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this amendment simply provides that rule 704 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, which most States have adopted--as a matter of fact, I think no more than a handful have not adopted Federal Rules of Evidence, and most of those have adopted 704; it happens that the State of Alabama did not adopt rule 704. Particularly with regard to these Y2K cases, I think rule 704 would be an appropriate rule of evidence. 
   It allows the introductions of analyses and reports by parties to the litigation that would indicate whether or not the entity that is involved had or had not taken adequate steps toward curing the Y2K problem, whether or not they actually have moved in that direction in a sufficient way. It could be the defense or, on the other side, assist the plaintiff. 
   I think this would be a good amendment and bring Alabama's law and perhaps a handful of other State laws into compliance, into uniformity in this Y2K bill. 
   We worked hard to have support across the aisle. I thank my colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, for their courtesy and interest in dealing with this problem. I think we have developed language, after a number of changes, that will leave most people happy. I hope this amendment will be accepted.  
   I know some Members will want to review this amendment before next week when we have a final vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Washington, and I thank him for his leadership on this important issue dealing with an economic problem that could place one of America's greatest industries in jeopardy. I believe this is an important piece of legislation. 
   I thank Senator GORTON for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this country is facing an unusual and very dangerous legal situation. I understand and appreciate the details given by the Senators as they have debated the nature of contracts and damages and economic loss rule and negligence as compared to contract law. It is pretty complex. 
   Historically, we have created rules under which to file. For contracts, you have burden of proof. If you file under tort, you have another standard you have to prove. All of those are complex, and we ought to be openminded to make sure we are proceeding in a way so as to create a statute that is effective and will achieve what we want. 
   It is time for us to face up to the fact that we do need some change in this Y2K computer problem. Our Nation is facing a real challenge. We could end  up with massive litigation in every single county in America: lawyers on both sides filing lawsuits arguing over how much business was lost in this grocery store, how much this bank lost; arguing over punitive damages, standards of proof; the computer companies situated in one State are having to defend themselves against 50 separate State laws; sometimes individual judges within individual States, if they do not have guidance, may rule differently than one expects them to rule. 
   Under the circumstances of this situation, as a person who does believe States ought to do those things they do best, and the Federal Government ought not to take over, when we are dealing with the computer industry--which is not only interstate but international and is a fundamental source of our productivity increases--that industry can be sued thousands of times throughout the country, and as a result, they will be weakened economically, they will be substantially less able to fix a problem that may occur and will spend more and more time with lawyers and on litigation than they need. 
   We need to create a system which focuses on fixing the problem, and that does mean changing the way we have to do business for this one problem for a maximum of 3 years. This is what we need to do. We do not need to allow our Nation to assault from every possible venue that exists in this country the computer industry, which Alan Greenspan has indicated is one of the primary reasons for our productivity increases as a nation, why our Nation is doing better than other nations, and why we need to keep it that way. 
   I see the distinguished Senator from Arizona has arrived. There may be some time remaining. I will be glad to yield the floor to him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Five. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, today the valiant men and women of our Armed Forces are in their third month of deployment for Operation Allied Force in Yugoslavia and Kosovo. However, in these final months of this Century, when you say Armed Forces, you are not referring merely to our Active Duty forces. In nearly every situation concerning our Nation's defense forces, when you speak of Armed Forces you also must include the Reserve Components. As Secretary Cohen and General Shelton have asserted, the Armed Forces cannot undertake any significant deployment without the citizen-soldiers of the Reserves and the National Guard, together we call them the Reserve Components. For example, 2,937 reservists are currently deployed world-wide on operational deployments; 1,000 reservists have supported Operation Uphold Democracy in Haiti; 12,000 reservists have deployed to Bosnia; annually 20,000 reservists deploy to world-wide training sites. When we look at these figures in light of the major missions the reserves have been involved in since Desert Storm to Operation Southern Watch , for instance, reserve participation has gone up for some elements from a Desert Storm high of 33% to a high of 51% of the overall force deployed in later operations. To bring this point even closer to home, the President just called up two weeks ago 33,100 reservists for duties in support of the air operations over Kosovo and Serbia. 
   So, for those of us who find it imperative to provide our Armed Forces with the resources that they need to carry out our Nation's increasingly diverse military responsibilities, this means providing all of our components, Active, Reserve, and National Guard with the leadership structure that they need. 
   Mr. President, it would be my wish to tell you today that we could count on the leadership of the Department of Defense to provide all of the components of our Armed Forces with the resources they need, be it equipment, personnel, or training. Unfortunately, while the leadership means well, and I am sure is trying to do the right thing for each component, in a number of areas at the end of the day the Active Components are doing far better from a resourcing standpoint than are the Reserve Components. This is because when the services sit down at the table to allocate resources the cards are stacked, I am afraid, heavily in favor the active component missions and requirements. 
   How this happens can be attributed to the inequity of the rank those officers who make the resource decisions at the senior levels. It is at these levels that the Active Duty forces have an overwhelming advantage rank and in the power of the advocates who design the missions, provide and train the manpower, and who get establish the requirements for equipment and resources, as well as installations from which they project combat power. 
   In the Armed Forces there is a very simple way to measure power, you can count the senior officers--specifically the generals and admirals who make the decisions for their components. In the Army there are a total of 
   307 general officers. In the Air Force the number is 282. When compared to the 118 United States Army Reserve General Officers and the 75 United States Air Force Reserve General Officers or the 195 Army National Guard General Officers of whom only 92 have Federal Recognition there appears to be an inequity when it comes to the Reserve Components. In the case of the Army, Air Force, Marine and Navy Reserves, there are no four or three star positions. In the case of the National Guard, the answer is one three star--- the Chief of the National Guard Bureau who represents both the Army and the Air National Guard. This means that in the case of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps Reserves and the Army and Air Force National Guard, each component's home team advocate is merely a two-star. 
   I do not choose the phase ``merely a two-star'' by accident. ``Merely'' is an apt word when you are talking about the fight for resources in the Pentagon. When programming and budgeting decisions are made within the services, the existing rank structure excludes the Reserve chiefs from what I consider to be full participation in deliberations, which are the realm of three-star participants. The Reserve chiefs are relegated to the periphery and must rely on a higher-ranking participant at the table to champion their cause. They cannot speak for themselves or their components unless asked. Now, this is wrong in my opinion and a classic example of how the Reserve chiefs are restricted from actively participating in the decision making process. 
   Furthermore, the two-star Reserve Component commanders exercise their preeminent authority over other senior commanders of their components who also wear two stars. While the Reserve and Guard chiefs, by necessity, have made this situation work, this arrangement is considered exceptional everywhere but in the Reserve Components. 
   Let me give you a compelling example of the inequity I am speaking of by looking closely at but one of our Reserve Components, the Army Reserve: The Chief, Army Reserve, or the CAR as he is commonly known, is responsible for more than 20 percent of the Army's personnel. The same applies for the Chief of the Navy Reserve. The CAR commands a total Army Reserve force of over a million soldiers. Of those soldiers over 415,000 are in the Ready Reserve and of those billets, nearly 205,000 are in the ever more frequently deployed Selected Reserve. Don't let anybody use the outdated pejorative ``weekend warrior'' for these citizen soldiers. Granted, when not deployed, they are not 24-hour-a-day troops. Nevertheless, the CAR also commands nearly 19,000 full-time support personnel plus nearly 4,400 Department of the Army Civilians, or DA civilians. In contrast an Active Component four-star, yes, a four-star general in the field commands an average of 48,400 troops plus DA civilians. An active component three-star general in the field commands lesser number of troops, plus civilians, but only 3 percent of that commanded by the Chief, Army Reserve. 
   The Chief, Army Reserve, in the exercise of his preeminent authority over the other senior commanders of his component is also responsible for evaluating 57 brigadier generals and 42 major generals. In contrast an active component four-star, yes, four-star general in the field is responsible for evaluating an average of 31 brigadier generals 
   and 10 major generals. An active component three-star general or admiral in the field is responsible for evaluating an average of only 7 brigadier generals and only 2 major generals. 
   The Chief, Army Reserve has full responsibility for $3.5 billion of fiscal year 1999 appropriations--nearly triple that ($1.2 billion) of a three-star general in the field and over 62% of that ($5.6 billion) of a four-star general in the field. 
   Currently the Army National Guard provides 54 percent of the Army's combat forces, 46 percent of the Combat Support capability, and about one third of the Combat Service Support forces. Likewise, the Air National Guard is a fully integrated partner in the Air Force providing 49 percent of  the theater airlift capability, 45 percent of the aerial tanker forces, 34 percent of the fighters and 36 percent of the Air Rescue resources. 
   The Air Force Reserve, 74,000 strong, notably has been the second largest major command in the USAF since it was elevated to that status in 1997. Only the Air Combat Command, with its 90,000 personnel is larger, and, of the other eight major Air Force commands, seven are commanded by 4-star generals. Only the smallest, the Special Operations Command with fewer than 10,000 personnel, is commanded by a major general. Prior to Desert Storm the Air Force Reserve had been involved in 10 contingencies. However, since the Gulf War, it has been involved in over 30 contingency, nation-building and peacekeeping operations. The Air Force Reserve provides the Air Force 20 percent of its capability. Air Force Reserve Command aircrews serve over 125 days a year on average; support personnel serve over 60. 
   The Commander Naval Reserve serves in a billet that, in the past, actually was filled by a vice admiral and reports directly to the Chief of Naval Operations, which is not even typical for a Navy three-star admiral. He is responsible for software development and acquisition for the Navy's Manpower and Personnel information systems. The Naval Reserve is responsible for: five percent of the Navy's total complement of ships and aircraft, 100 percent of intra-theater air logistics, 100 percent of the Navy's harbor surface and subsurface surveillance forces, 90 percent of the Navy's Expeditionary Logistics Support Force, 47 percent of the Navy's combat search and rescue capability, and 35 percent of the Navy's total airborne ocean surveillance capability. 
   The Commander, Marine Force Reserve commands over 40,000 personnel and provides 20 percent of all U.S. ground divisions and 13 percent of all U.S. tactical air. The Marine Corps Reserve provides the Marine Corps the following: 100 percent of the adversary aircraft, 100 percent of the civil affairs groups, 50 percent of the theater missile defense, 50 percent of the tanks, 40 percent of the force reconnaissance, 40 percent of the air refueling, and 30 percent of the artillery. We find similar core competencies in the Army Reserve where the USAR provides 97% of Civil Affairs units, 81% of all psychological units, 100% of Chemical Brigades, 75% of Chemical battalions; and 85% of all medical brigades or roughly 47% of all Army Combat Service Support. 
   What are the implications for the Reserve Components? 
   Well, when reserve commanders, by virtue of their ranks, are outgunned so to speak by active counterparts, it means that the men and women in the Reserve Components, which are deploying with ever-increasing frequency, might be deploying with less than the best resources because of the type of unit, where it fits in the equipping matrix or the deployment matrix. I am gravely concerned that ALL TROOPS regardless of component receive the training they need before they deploy. I am concerned you see because I was an Army reservist for 13 years and understand what it means to be on the short end of things they need like professional development training or speciality training. 
   Admittedly, in some cases there are valid reasons for these disparities. In other cases there are not. What is clearly needed is a level playing field to ensure that the limited defense resources, whether equipment, personnel, or training slots, are fairly distributed. 
   Because the nation has come to depend to such a great extent on the readiness of the Reserves and the National Guard, decisions taken within the Pentagon must be discussed, made and agreed to among individuals more nearly alike in authority. To expect a two-star major general to compete equally with three- and four-star generals is unrealistic. To not compete for funds on an equal basis is to guarantee the component is under-capitalized for the mission it is asked to perform. 
   The need for three star ranks for the Reserve and Guard chiefs has been understood for years. In 1989, a study by General William Richardson recommended elevation of the Chief, Army Reserve to (four-star) general. In 1992 the Hay Group, which reviewed all Reserve Component general and flag officer billets, specifically recommended elevation of the Chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force Reserves and the Directors of the Army and Air Force National Guard to three-star rank. In 1992, an independent commission chaired by General John Foss, USA (Ret) recommended elevation of the CAR to lieutenant general. The 1997 Defense Authorization Act directed the Secretary of Defense report to Congress not later than six months after enactment the recommended grades for the Reserve and Guard chiefs. It is now May 1999 and we have yet to see the report called for in the 1997 statute. So, you can see my point. We have waited patiently for DoD to send us a report upon 
   which to make a full evaluation on general officer positions and it hasn't arrived. More deliberation and delay is sought. I say NO. It is time to take action--NOW. 
   This is why I am offering this command equity amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000. 
   My amendment will make the positions of the Chiefs of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps Reserve and the Directors of the Army and Air National Guard carry the three-star ranks. Each of them absolutely must have it to ensure success and proper resources given the realities of today. Incumbents will be promoted and their successors will be promoted to three-star ranks upon confirmation by this body. 
   A valid argument can be made that the Army and Air Force already have all the three-star generals (45 and 37 respectively) that they need and while the active army, for instance, has reduced its overall general officers from a 407 in 1991 to 307 in 1999 to correspond with changes in force structure and missions, the reserves conversely need these grade increases to correspond with increases in assigned world-wide missions, contingency deployments and need for greater share of resources. 
   Accordingly, my command equity amendment, while creating a few more three star positions, does not exacerbate that situation by increasing the overall numbers of senior officers in the Army or Air Force. This over abundance of high grade officers is not the case for the Navy and the Marines, who are not now flush with senior grade billets; therefore, my amendment does provide new billets that the Navy and Marines really would need. 
   Mr. President, I am very pleased today that Chairman WARNER, Senator LEVIN, and others who have been working on this bill have seen it fitting to agree and to accept as an amendment that there will be a series of three-star ranks given to the Reserve Forces of the United States. That is a critically important matter. 
   For a few minutes, I would like to explain why it is equitable and fair and why this will be an important step forward for the Reserves. I served for 13 years in the Army Reserve. In the unit I served there was a chief of staff. I remember getting out after 13 years and he remained in and was activated for 6 months for Desert Storm. Reservists all over America, like those in the 11-84 transportational unit, are being deployed; 33,000 have now been called up for the Kosovo activities. 
   In Desert Storm, in Kuwait, the Iraq war, 33 percent of the forces committed to that war were Reserves or National Guard. I am including National Guard when I talk about the Reserve components. They play a critical role. Yet, in our allocation of rank, they have not been treated, in my opinion, fairly. It impacts on them when they seek to make sure that the interests of the National Guard and Reserves are properly taken care of. When the brass sits around the table and decides how we are going to deal with the limited amount of resources available, the Army Reserve, the Naval Reserve, the Air Force Reserve and the Marine Reserve--their officers sit there with just two stars. They do not have the same level of clout that they would otherwise have. 
   I would like to share a few things with you. I have some charts that deal primarily with the United States Army Reserve, but the numbers are similar regarding the Navy, Air Force, and the National Guard units. The Chief of the Army Reserve is now a two-star general. In the course of his duties, he is required to evaluate 57 brigadier generals. That is one star, and there are 42 major generals with two stars just like himself. 
   That is a responsibility he has,  whereas in the Active Army a four-star general is only required to evaluate 31 brigadier generals, one star, and ten major generals, two stars. 
   This shows you what a four-star has responsibility for and what the Chief of Army Reserve has. In the Active Army, a three-star general is responsible for evaluating an average of just seven brigadier generals and two major generals, but he has a higher rank than the Chief of the Army Reserve who has to rate 57 brigadiers and 42 major generals. 
   It strikes me that we have gone a little bit too far in containing the rank available for the important position of Chief of Army Reserve. 
   The Chief of the Army Reserve also, for example, has full responsibility for $3.372 billion in the fiscal year 1999 appropriations. That is nearly triple that of a field three-star general, and over 62 percent, almost as much, as a four-star field active-duty general. An active three-star general's prorated share of the Active Army 1999 appropriations is a mere $1 million. 
   Let me show you this chart. I think it again adds some impact to what I am saying. 
   The General Chief of the Army Reserve commands over 1 million total Army reserves. Those include those who are in retired status, subject to being recalled; the active reservists, which has 200,000; the ready reserves, which are subject to a more immediate callup; plus 18,000 FTS personnel and nearly 4,300 civilian personnel; whereas a field Active Army four-star commands an average of only 48,000 troops plus civilians. 
   So you can begin to see the situation we are facing. I do not believe it reflects a proper balance. 
   Two years ago, the Appropriations Committee asked the Department of Defense to submit an analysis of this situation for improvement. That report has not been received as requested. 
   It seems to me plainly obvious that we need at least three-star generals in charge of the Army Reserve and the Naval Reserve--a three-star general for Army Reserve, Naval Reserve, and Air Force Reserve, Marine Reserve. There is one three-star general in the National Guard. Because of their large size--they are bigger than any one of the other components--we believe they need two three-star generals. With that, I believe we will have a more appropriate balance in the leadership and rank in our Defense Department. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. That is correct. In fact, there are 45, now, three-star generals in the Army. This would only involve two of those. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, funding for Ballistic Missile Defense Technology has been in a steady decline since Fiscal Year 1992, with the Army part of the budget down approximately 70% during this period. All indications are that it appears technology funding is headed for further descent in the future. 
   The Ballistic Missile Defense Technology program is in the category of research and development, a category that bridges the gap between basic research and full-scale weapon system development and it is critical to preventing technical obsolescence and to meeting emerging threats. 
   Historically, this applied research in the area of ballistic Missile Defense has been vital to the evolution of systems that are being developed and deployed today to meet an ever-growing missile threat. It is the wellspring of new defense systems and the source of demonstrated technology that is needed to make upgrades to systems already in the field. 
   The emphasis in the Ballistic Defense Technology program for the past 7 to 8 years has been on acquisition, getting systems developed and fielded. Following Desert Storm in 1991, it was clear that ballistic missiles were a real threat and that the problem of proliferation of these missiles would be of grave concern for many years to come. There were understandable calls to rapidly build defense systems to counter this threat. 
   While this emphasis is on deployment certainly justified by the pace and scale of the threat, it has resulted in a serious reduction in the advanced development budget. This means the missile defense systems entering the inventory today are the products of laboratories of the services over a number of years, in some cases over a span of 20 or more years. 
   If we are to remain the world's leader in missile systems, it is imperative that we do all we can to stop this dramatic erosion of Ballistic Missile Defense Advanced Technology funding and strengthen the chain of development upon which future defense capability depends. We are indeed ``eating our seed corn'' when we pull from our research efforts to fund the deployment of systems or carry out other military missions such as those found in the contingency operation arena such as Bosnia or Kosovo. 
   This Sense of the Congress calls upon the Secretary of Defense to take a hard look at the Future Years Defense Program to ensure that funding in the future years defense program is adequate for both advanced ballistic missile defense technology development and for existing ballistic defense major defense acquisition and improvement programs. To that end we look forward to the Secretary's report by March 15th, 2000 on his plan for dealing with the matters identified in the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator. I have supported Senator ALLARD's amendment, because, as I understand it, it calls for a GAO evaluation and an inspector general investigation for the potential wrongdoing.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Two or 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I think it is time to reevaluate the way the Civil Air Patrol is supervised. I am inclined to think that the Air Force justifies and makes a good case for tighter accountability and for maybe more direct ultimate control over how the Civil Air Patrol operates. But, as Senator ALLARD has eloquently discussed, it is a popular volunteer agency that we don't want to become too bureaucratic, else we may lose the popularity that is involved with it. 
   I hope before we vote on this--I suspect the vote is set for tomorrow, is that correct, not tonight? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I was hoping that perhaps we could get with the Air Force one more time, and maybe they would be amenable to improving this amendment to give them maybe more certainty or more prompt resolution of it and get this matter settled. I think that is going to be important. 
   I want to maintain the vitality and the attractiveness of the Civil Air Patrol and the many thousands of volunteers that do so much. We want to increase accountability. We want to increase their responsibility to professionally manage every dollar. They are an agency that receives our funding, and we have every right to expect rigorous accountability. I would like to develop a system in which the Air Force feels comfortable. I think we are close to that. Maybe we can reach that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am aware of some of those allegations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I favor that. I certainly favor full investigation of every allegation of wrongdoing. I believe that Senator ALLARD's amendment calls for that. I think the difference would be: Are we prepared tonight to make the final decision about how this reorganization occurs or should we get a GAO report and an IG report first? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I appreciate and respect the insight of the Senator from Oklahoma, because he has stood steadfastly for good defense, and he knows this issue exceedingly well. 
   Again, I think maybe we can reach a compromise that would give us some opportunity to review the reorganization and the structure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Some change is necessary. I certainly agree with that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Kansas for bringing forward a very critical amendment. I spent 17 years as a U.S. attorney or assistant U.S. attorney, representing the United States in court. I am looking at the legal implications of this amendment as a lawyer for the United States. 
   What we are doing here is very, very historic. This Congress has ratified a defensive treaty. We are moving into a new world. We are looking at an entirely different approach to life, and the President is unilaterally expanding the commitments of this Nation under the guise of a new NATO that is involved in new missions, as the Senator from Oklahoma has just noted; committing us solemnly with the same depth of commitment that we put our lives, our fortunes, and our honor to preserve the integrity of democracy against totalitarian communism for all of these years. 
   That is what is being asked here. To have that done without full debate and full approval of this Congress is astounding and would represent a major legal erosion of the powers of the Senate and the Congress, particularly the Senate, to review these matters. So I cannot express too strongly how important it is this Senate reassert its historic responsibility to advise and consent to involvement in these kind of foreign policies. 
   Once the President commits us, we pay for it. Right now this action in Kosovo amounts to 19 NATO nations meeting and deciding how to deploy the U.S. Air Force. We are paying for this war in their own backyard, and they are voting on how to conduct it. We simply have to get a better grip on it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Kansas. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise in support of Senator ENZI's bill to offset the supplemental appropriations bill. 
   Senator ENSZI's bill is consistent with my belief that we must pay for this emergency supplemental bill with offsets. 
   Mr. President, under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Congress, the President, and the American people agreed to cap the growth of our Government's spending programs. In doing this we were able to balance the budget and head down the path of fiscal responsibility. 
   We have agreed under the law to these spending caps. We should not now turn our backs on the commitment we made to the American people, by going back on our word and breaking this agreement with them. 
   Because of this commitment to the American people, Congress must not bust these spending caps. 
   In that same vein, at the zenith of our success to have finally balanced the Federal Government's budget for the first time in 29 years, we ought not look to spend $13 billion we don't have. We can ill afford to use our first wave of surpluses, especially the surpluses garnered from the Social Security trust fund to pay for this supplemental. We can ill afford at this critical juncture to break our pledge to our seniors over social security, not to the public over keeping our budgets balanced. 
   In closing Mr. President, I believe Senator ENZI's bill, of which I am an original cosponsor, is right on the mark. We need to use common sense in budgeting in our Nation's Capitol. 
   Granted we have several emergencies confronting us, from the disasters that have hit our constituents across the land, the need to increase FEMA's funding to meet these needs, desperately needed funds for our farmers--including my provision to the bill that will help our farmers to qualify for disaster funds, up to the need to support our troops in Kosovo. But--we must pay the bill. I support Senator ENZI and our other cosponsors, by calling for reduced spending in other federal programs in order to fund these necessary emergencies. This is truly the only way this Congress can justify spending money we don't have. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, Senator HATCH chairs the Judiciary Committee. It would be the responsibility of that committee to give oversight to the COPS Program. It has been a 5-year program and requires a reauthorization. 
   We just received, within the last month or 6 weeks, an inspector general's report from the Department of Justice. This is President Clinton's Department of Justice. It raised serious concerns about how this program is being managed and administered. 
   When 78 percent of the recipients could not demonstrate they redeployed officers, or could not demonstrate they had a system in place to track the redeployment of officers in the community policing, then we have a problem, since the whole COPS Program was sold as a program to further community policing. It was supposed to bring new police officers on line. 
   We found 41 percent of the programs inspected by President Clinton's Department showed indicators of using Federal funds to supplant local funds instead of using grant funds to supplement local funding. 
   I am reading directly from the report. 
   These are very serious allegations. To pass this amendment, $7 billion to reauthorize this program, in the dead of night without any hearing would be a colossal blunder. It would be an abdication of our responsibility, especially  in light of this scathing report by the inspector general's office. The thought of it boggles my mind. I can't believe it would be even suggested. 
   We ought to review, as we were supposed to when the program passed 5 years ago, how it has worked. We haven't had any hearings on it. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Utah, who is a master legislator, who took this bill through storms none of us expected would occur. This was an emotional time in America. It has generated an awful lot of amendments and ideas, some of which are good and some of which I frankly think are not healthy. 
   I believe we need to focus on prosecuting criminals who use guns. It always galled me as a former Federal prosecutor myself that here this administration blamed the Congress for not passing more laws when their own Department of Justice had allowed prosecutions of gun cases to drop 40 percent. You wonder why we are passing laws if they are not using them. 
   Those were some of the matters that came up. My vision for this bill from the beginning was to create a Federal program to assist the local juvenile justice systems in America. 
   We put money where these judges and prosecutors and probation officers are overwhelmed by the huge crush of juvenile cases. We have increased funding dramatically for adult programs for crimefighting but we have not done the same for juveniles. Those juveniles, then, come on and become adult criminals. 
   I hope everybody in America who cares about what is happening will ask how their juvenile court system is doing. Does the judge in their town have an option when a child is arrested to send them to prison, detention, boot camp, alternative schools, drug treatment, mental health, family counseling? Can the judge impose that? Can he impose a probation order and then have the resources to make sure that youngster is at home at night at 7 like he ordered, or do we do like most courts in America, because they do not have enough resources, so orders are written but nobody enforces them? 
   If we love these children, if we care about these children, when they are arrested, we will drug test them, because if they are using drugs, they are going to continue in the life of crime. Sixty-seven to 70 percent of the people in America who are arrested for a felony test positive for an illegal drug. It is an accelerant to crime. This legislation does that kind of thing. 
   It provides money for drug testing. It provides money for recordkeeping. We hope every juvenile court system in America will input criminal history records into the Federal NCIC, National Crime Information Center, that the FBI manages. They want these records because these children move around and some of them are very violent. Those records need to be maintained. This bill provides for that. 
   It provides for research on which programs are working. Many of them are not successful, according to the Department of Justice, and we need to make sure these prevention programs are working well. It provides for research for that. 
   I am of a belief that this legislation--and it can use some work in conference, and I know Senator HATCH and others will try to improve it--can help us create a better juvenile justice system so we can intervene effectively at the first arrest. We can make that youngster's first brush with the law their last because we deal with them seriously and not as a revolving door.  
   Sometimes we have to use some form of detention because some of these kids just will not mind otherwise. We know that. They have multiple arrests. 
   I believe we have made some progress. I am honored to have worked with Senator LEAHY, Senator BIDEN, and certainly Senator HATCH, the chairman of our committee. He is an outstanding legislator, a man of integrity and principle, and an outstanding constitutional lawyer who cares about his country and serves it well every day. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize one of Alabama's great native sons, Dr. George Vernon Irons, Sr., and to acknowledge the eulogy by Dr. James D. Moebes, given at his funeral service on July 21, 1998. 
   A native of Demopolis, Dr. Irons was Distinguished Professor of History and Political Science, Samford University, 43 years, Distinguished Professor Emeritus, 22 years--a Samford record. Dr. Irons taught not only history but how to make history--teaching 17 students who become university presidents--more than any educator. 
   Dr. Irons was also one of Alabama's true athletic greats--the only distance man--the only University of Alabama track man--ever inducted into the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame. Mr. President, only three men have been inducted into the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame on the first ballot: Ralph Shug Jordan, Paul Bear Bryant and Dr. George Irons. He was its oldest member at age 95. 
   Mr. President, Dr. Irons was truly an institution in himself. He first came to Howard College (now Samford University) in Birmingham in 1933. When Dr. Irons reported to Howard College, the school was in serious financial trouble owing a half million dollars. Dr. Irons gave a wealth of leadership, dedication and promise, sorely needed by Howard. 
   The rest of history. Today Samford University is the largest privately endowed Baptist school in the world; largest Baptist pharmacy school in the world. The only Baptist university in America with an inspiring domed school of divinity on its campus. 
   Born in Demopolis, Dr. Irons taught at Duke University for two years before joining Samford. Dr. Irons was a founding member of the Alabama Historical Association in 1947 and attended the 50th anniversary of the organization last year in Birmingham. He was also a member of the Southern Historical Association, Alabama Baptist Historical Association, Birmingham-Jefferson Historical Society and John H. Forney Historical Society. Dr. Irons historical writings were published by those organizations. 
   He was past president of the Alabama Writer's Conclave and received a distinguished service award from that organization in 1977. He also served as Vice President of the Alabama Academy of Science. 
   Dr. Irons was awarded the George Washington Honor Medal from Freedom's at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, in 1962 and the George Washington Honor Award in 1963. He was Director of Samford's Freedom 
   Foundation Program which won a record seventeen consecutive awards. The Samford yearbook, Entre Nous, was dedicated by the Samford student body to Dr. Irons, and unprecedented four times during his teaching career--in 1941, 1960, 1969, and 1974. He served as a member of the Jefferson County Judicial Commission from 1961 to 1965, selecting circuit judges for the largest judicial circuit in Alabama. 
   Dr. Irons was selected to Who's Who in America, Who's Who in the South and Southwest, Who's Who in American Education and Directory of American Scholars. 
   Dr. Irons is a true Alabama sports legend. In the early 1920's, the prowess of the Alabama Crimson Tide football had ebbed. However, Crimson Tide track and distance star, George Irons, kept the athletic flame burning at the Capstone as its ``Knight of the Cinderpath.'' The late Senator John Sparkman, a classmate of Irons, said, ``George Irons was all we had to cheer about--if it hadn't been for Irons, athletics would have been pretty boring back then.'' 
   His athletic feats have been heralded by legendary Coach Paul ``Bear'' Bryant as ``truly outstanding athletic achievements,'' Coach Wallace Wade (three time Rose Bowl winner) as the ``greatest distance runner of his day,'' and Coach Hank Crisp as ``self-made distance star for the Alabama Crimson Tide.'' 
   In 1923, he was described by those who knew him best--his fellow classmates at the University of Alabama, including the late U.S. Senator John Sparkman: 
   ``George Irons: The South's greatest distance runner and a scholarly Christian gentleman. He is one of the true greats of Alabama athletic history, an honor man in scholarship and a record breaking athlete--that is a real man--our Knight of the Cinderpath.''  
   [The Corolla, 1923.] 
   At his interment ceremonies Dr. Irons received full military honors. A 21 gun salute was fired and taps bugled in honor of his valiant service in World War II, rising to the rank of Colonel, with 33 years active and reserve duty. 
   It's no surprise his life had such brilliant radiance. No surprise his devoted valiant service was so broad in scope. Devoted service to: 
   Family. His wife, Velma Wright Irons, a distinguished educator in her own right--sons, Dr. George Vernon Irons, Jr., Charlotte, North Carolina, a practicing cardiologist and William Lee Irons, a prominent Birmingham attorney. Both have left notable marks on their professions of medicine and law. Parenthetically, 
   Dr. George V. Irons, Sr., and his son, William L. Irons, are the only father-son listing selected to the 1998 Who's Who in America from the entire State of Alabama--yet another record for this remarkable man. 
   Alma Mater. The University of Alabama--where he established his name in crimson flame as ``one of the true greats in Alabama's famed athletic history.'' A Phi Beta Kappa honors student, Irons was the University of Alabama's--the State of Alabama--nominee for the Rhodes Scholarship to England in 1924. Since the University's founding in 1831, only seven athletes have been selected to become a member of Phi Beta Kappa. 
   College. Dr. Irons was a key player in seeing Howard College grow from a financially distressed school, to the largest privately endowed Baptist university in the world--an internationally acclaimed university. 
   Dr. Irons was elected by the Samford University Faculty to serve as Grand Marshall of all academic, graduation and commencement exercises. Leading the academic processionals for fifteen years, carrying the silver scepter, symbol of Samford University's authority--Dr. Irons wore brilliant blue academic gowns and silks with dignity and distinction. In 1976, the Samford University Faculty wrote in the University's records by Resolution: 
   ``In the long history of Samford University, Dr. Irons must be ranked at the very top in terms of his widespread beneficent influence, the love that former students evidence from him, and his impeccable character and qualities of modesty, humility, kindness and selfless service to the University. 
   [Samford University Resolution (1976)] 
   Country. Dr. Irons distinguished himself in World War II, rising to the rank of Colonel, defending his Nation for a third of the 20th Century in war and peace. 
   God. Dr. Irons gave tireless service to his Church as deacon, Sunday School teacher and Chairman of the Board of Deacons, and was elected as lifetime Deacon, Southside Baptist Church. His life reflects his depth of devotion in word, thought and deed--an icon of virtue--a legendary role model for generations of Samford students spanning over half a century. 
   Mr. President, America salutes Dr. George Vernon Irons, Sr., as record breaking champion athlete for his alma mater, the University of Alabama, as Colonel, World War II, who defended his Nation for a third of the 20th century in war and peace, as Distinguished Professor, 43 years, Distinguished Professor Emeritus, 22 years, as Grand Marshall, Samford University, elected by the Faculty to preside over all commencement and academic exercises, as one of its most admired leaders in its proud history. America salutes Dr. Irons for his character, devotion to cause, exemplary standards of honor, duty and integrity. America proudly salutes Dr. George Vernon Irons, Sr., one of Alabama's greatest native sons, whose life of devoted service is an inspiration to all Americans.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senator LAUTENBERG for his work on this. He is committed to it very strongly. We just have different views on a number of issues about guns. I wish it weren't so. But we do have some differences. 
   With regard to the gun shows, I think a lot of progress has been made since the Lautenberg bill has made some movement toward a more centrist position, but I believe--and I know Senator HATCH shares the belief deeply--that it still does not go far enough in being a reasonable restriction on the historic event of gun shows in America. They continue around the country. These are honest and law-abiding citizens, overwhelmingly, who attend. People collect antique weapons and so forth. We simply can't have these long delays before you can close a transaction, because the show will be gone by then. This does not have qualified immunity. It gives the ATF the ability to in effect impose a new tax. 
   There are some things that we just are not able to accept. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I sure would be happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would certainly agree that the amendment as proposed has listened to some of the concerns that made it unacceptable to begin with, and it moved in a more moderate position. But I would still suggest that this amendment is unacceptable for a number of different reasons. One of them is an additional tax and fee that can be imposed by the ATF on a transaction that previously was not taxed. It does not provide the kind of qualified immunity that would induce people to do the background checks and could, in fact, cause more black market sales of guns. 
   The bill as written, the Hatch-Craig amendment, would be mandatorily stronger than it was originally. And of course there were some typographical errors in that first Hatch-Craig amendment, unfortunately, that I know Senator LAUTENBERG enjoyed railing about for a long time. But that was admitted and has been corrected. 
   I believe the managers of the Hatch-Craig amendment answered the questions that Attorney General Reno raised in her comments that were made before some of these changes were made. 
   But let me say this. I have been a prosecutor for 17 years, 15 as a Federal prosecutor, and I prosecuted gun cases  aggressively; it was a high priority. Under this Project Triggerlock proposal, I sent out a newsletter on guns called ``Triggerlock News,'' to the local sheriffs and chiefs of police explaining to them what the Federal laws were. 
   Federal laws against guns are very strong. If you carry a gun during a drug offense or a burglary, it is 5 years without parole consecutive to any punishment you get on the underlying offense. In Federal court you have the Speedy Trial Act. People have to be tried promptly. In Federal court when you have a speedy trial and the individual is already out on bail or parole, the judge usually will deny them bail. So you could have a case where oftentimes these violent criminals are denied bail, then they are tried within 60 days, and removed from the community for 5 years and more. That was a high priority with me. 
   This administration under Attorney General Reno has allowed those prosecutions. I was a U.S. attorney appointed by President Bush. And President Clinton has now appointed all 93 U.S. attorneys around the country. His U.S. attorneys have allowed gun prosecutions to decline 40 percent, from 7,000 to 3,800. And, more than that, they have gone forward with this idea that the way to fight violent crime and keep people from using guns illegally is to pass more laws. But they are not enforcing the laws they pass. 
   For example, there were 6,000 incidents of firearms carried on school grounds last year, according to the President. And within the last several years this Congress, at the request of the President, passed a law to make it a Federal crime to carry a firearm on school grounds. Yet out of 6,000 incidents, fewer than 10 cases were prosecuted each of those 2 years. It is a Federal crime in America to deliver a firearm to a teenager under most circumstances. 
   That Federal crime, that Federal law, was passed several years ago at the request of the President. Yet his Department of Justice, Attorney General Janet Reno, prosecuted less than 10 of those in each of the last 2 years. The assault weapons ban that was raised had less than 10 prosecutions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. When I finish I will be glad to yield. This is a very important question to me. We are trying to improve gun laws, and I am prepared to strengthen substantially the situation involving gun shows. I know Chairman HATCH is. I am filling in for him at this moment. 
   Is this just show? Is this all for debate, for TV and media and politics? It seems to me that it is since after we pass the law, no one ever gets prosecuted for it. Only ten cases out of 6,000 in America last year were prosecuted. What does that say about what we are going through here? 
   This bill has a number of changes in gun law. If a young person, a teenager, is convicted as a juvenile for a crime of violence, he or she will not be able to possess a firearm later when they become an adult. Under current law that is not so. If a teenager commits a violent crime at age 17, he is treated as a youthful offender or juvenile in juvenile court, and when he becomes an adult he can still possess a firearm. But an adult, if convicted at age 18 of a felony, cannot possess a gun. 
   We closed that loophole to make sure that we are focusing on people who have a proven record of dangerous use of guns, rather than focusing over and over again on innocent people who use firearms. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. We are not against laws that rationally and effectively prevent people from having weapons they shouldn't possess. We added in this bill a prohibition on what I think was a loophole on assault weapons, dealing with teenagers. Other violations of that kind are in that bill, and that bill can provide more restrictions. 
   To me, it is a bizarre event that we are talking about a 3,000-prosecution decline and about passing this arcane law dealing with gun shows which may have some positive effect in reducing illegal gun sales. 
   So we are working with Members on that. We have probably five or more gun restriction provisions in this legislation. That is not going to solve the fundamental problem if we are not going to have those laws in force nor if we don't have a commitment from the Attorney General to do that. 
   We heard from her own U.S. attorney in Richmond. They have adopted a program very similar to Project Triggerlock under 
   President Bush. She called it Project Triggerlock with Steroids. They were aggressively prosecuting individuals who utilized guns illegally, and the President's own U.S. attorney attributed their aggressive prosecution of current gun laws for a 40-percent reduction in murder and a 21-percent reduction in violent crime. 
   I thought that was a stunning statistic. The President indicated he wanted to see that done nationwide in a radio address. Two days before, we had a hearing on it. He had a radio address on this very subject, in effect, dealing with the massive decline in prosecutions that have occurred under his administration, and said he was directing his U.S. attorneys in the Department of Justice and the Department of Treasury, of which ATF is a part, to increase their prosecutions. 
   Yet when we had Attorney General Reno testify just this month before the Judiciary Committee, she said we are not making any big commitment on that. She has a study going on and it has to be done individually and we are just not going to do what they did in Richmond. 
   The clear impression was that not only was she not in accord with what I believe the law of the United States requires, but that she wasn't even really in accord with the wishes of the President of the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am sorry that I took so much time. I defer to Senator KERRY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Massachusetts. 
   I think, in fundamental principles, we are in accord on the efficacy. The virtual elimination of guns in America, we cannot be together on. I think the second amendment provides for that. But tough law enforcement, as the Senator said, tough gun control--I would say, tough gun prosecutions--and prevention do work. 
   The Boston project is a good model for America. One of my staff members has been there to try to analyze how it is they have achieved their successes. One of the reasons is they really enforce the law. They go out and deal with these young gang members. If they have them on probation, they monitor them. They talk to them. They say: You are supposed to be at home at 7 o'clock at night. The probation officers do not work from 9 to 5 in Boston. They will work from 1 until 10 o'clock at night, and they will go out with police officers and actually verify whether or not those young people are complying with the probation and parole requirements placed on them. What is happening in America is our court systems are so overwhelmed with juvenile crime that they have not been able to even carry out their mandates. 
   If you give them probation, you need to make sure they honor and comply with the terms of the probation. One possibility is to do drug testing, so that they are not getting back on drugs which may be driving them to crime. Another possibility is by going to school on time; or if they have a job, showing up on time for it; if they have a curfew placed on them, being home in their bed and not running the streets at night. 
   These are the kinds of things in which Boston has invested. We asked: Well, what happens when a young person in Boston does not do what they say--for example, they have been caught in a burglary, have been released on probation, and have been running around with a gang. The judge says: Don't hang around with that gang anymore; be in at 7 o'clock; and be at school on time. 
   What happens if they do not go to school, and continue being a truant? What happens if they do not come home at night when they are supposed to or otherwise do not comply with the judge's order? In most cities, unfortunately, nothing happens. 
   If you care about children, you will make sure something happens, because we want to intervene early in their lives in order to direct them on a new and healthy path. If we love these children, and really care about them, we will not have this revolving-door justice that goes on in America. 
   There was a night watchman killed by three young people in Alabama just 3 years ago when I was the attorney general of Alabama. I called the chief of police and asked the chief: Chief, what is the criminal record on these three youngsters? They were out loose. One of them had 5 prior arrests, another one had 5 prior arrests, and one had 15 prior arrests. That is the pattern in America. 
   Fox Butterfield, who has written on this subject numerous times for the New York Times, did a study of the Chicago juvenile court system. He  found they spend 5 minutes per case. These children are not being confronted effectively by the court system when they are beginning to get in trouble. We need to make that first brush with the law their last. And it does include tough law enforcement. You have to be able to discipline children who refuse to take advantage of the opportunities that have been given them. 
   So we do have money in here that would allow for alternative schools to be built, for drug treatment programs, for mental health and counseling to occur, and for drug testing to find out whether young people are on drugs. All of those funding programs, and many more, are here to help strengthen juvenile justice. 
   I say to those who care about juvenile justice in America today, go down and talk to your judges, your district attorneys, and your chiefs of police. Ask them what is needed in their local juvenile court system in order to make them better able to intervene and change the lives of young people who are getting in 
   trouble. You will find that those judges will have a list of things they wish they could have. This bill would fund virtually every one of them. 
   It would give matching funds to expand detention facilities. It would give more money for drug treatment and other activities of this kind. It would allow each community to make application for funds to fill the missing blanks in their system so that they can have a comprehensive, coordinated effort against crime. 
   I think we can make progress in that regard. I hope we can go on and move this bill to final passage. 
   I see the Senator from New York would like to comment. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. SCHUMER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, is there a time agreement on this debate? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, from time to time, those of us in Congress hear complaints about governmental literature, brochures, pamphlets, and booklets paid for by the taxpayers who believe there is contained within them messages, content, material, tendencies, and philosophies that they believe are unjustified. 
   It is not possible, frankly, for us to manage that, as probably most people think we do. Particularly, this juvenile crime bill will produce about $1 billion in new spending for juvenile crime, and over half of that will be for prevention. Much of it will then be used, as part of the prevention effort, to produce certain literature that will be used in schools and other organizations. 
   So the question is: What do we do about it? Someone suggested that, well, you need to pass a law that prohibits them from spending money which says things that may offend me. I am not sure how we could write a law that would say that. I am not sure we even ought to attempt to do that. 
   But there is a problem, a disquiet, an unease in America about some of the material getting printed at taxpayers' expense. Both liberals and conservatives sometimes are not happy with material. So I thought this would be a suggestion that we might try with regard to the funds expended under this juvenile offender accountability grant program that we have. 
   There would be a disclaimer, language placed on all literature funded by this bill. It would simply say this: ``These materials are printed at Government expense.'' 
   In addition, it would have these words: ``If you object to the accuracy of the material, the completeness of the material, the representations in the material, including objections to the material's characterizations of persons' religious beliefs, you are encouraged to direct your comments to the Office of the Attorney General of the United States.'' 
   It directs the Attorney General to designate an office. There is an address that will be put on the literature to receive the material and to periodically, every 6 months, send a summary to the Congress of what the comments received were, because we are funding these materials. 
   When we send a grant to a certain community to do a drug treatment program, a mental health program, or an antiviolence program, the Members of this body may not know what was in that material. Oftentimes people get it and they do not like it. They think it is inaccurate or unfair. I think they ought to have a chance to express that. 
   I do not know how anybody could believe this would be an objectionable thing. If the Government is going to fund the literature, people ought to be told that they can object and where they can send their objection. If there are numerous objections, we can take a look at them. If it is inaccurate or discriminates against a particular group, then we ought to be prepared to ask questions in our oversight capacity in Congress. 
   As chairman of the Youth Violence Subcommittee, we have oversight over the Office of Juvenile Justice programs. We look at Office of Juvenile Justice programs. So if we are getting a lot of complaints about the material, we can raise that with them and make sure they are exercising legitimate supervision over those materials. 
   It is a simple amendment. I do not think it would cost anything. The Attorney General could certainly be able to receive these materials, assemble them, and summarize them for the Congress. They could be maintained so that if anybody wanted to, they could go read the complaints. I think it would result in high-quality literature. In fact, I think that if a person knows when they are producing literature that it is required to put on it information concerning complaints and writing the Attorney General of the United States, they are probably going to take more care to see that the material is produced accurately and fairly. 
   Those are the comments I have on that at this time. 
   On the other matter regarding gun shows, I think that what is frustrating  the people that I am hearing from, and that I think most of us are hearing from, is that people who go to gun shows are good people. A gun show is a traditional thing. 
   Has my time expired? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. They are getting tired of being blamed. These are good people. The murder rate in Washington, DC, is one of the highest in America. Who suggests that the guns criminals have here come from gun shows? That is not where guns used in crime are coming from. What I am hearing is, let us prosecute the criminals with the guns. That is why General Reno's comments are, to me, frustrating, almost irritating, because during her watch we have seen a collapse of the prosecution of criminals with guns, a 40-percent decline. At the same time, we want to shift burdens on people who are not committing crimes. That is what is causing the tension here. 
   Senator HATCH has worked very hard with the Members of the Democratic Party to try to reach an agreement in which we can maintain accurate controls over guns that are sold in gun shows and so forth but, at the same time, not burden excessively innocent people. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-14-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator from Missouri is here, and when he is ready, I will yield to him. 
   Mr. President, I am not hearing every day that what we need as a No. 1 priority of schools in America is more counselors. There are a lot of needs in schools. Maybe we need to expand Head Start, maybe we need other programs, maybe we need computers, or mentoring programs, some of which work well. We have not had hearings on it. This is an issue that ought to be raised in the Senator's Education Committee, and it ought not to be part of a crime bill at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-15-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-16-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I have been traveling in my State and talking with educators. I have never had any issue that is of more concern to them than the problems of enforcing discipline caused by the IDEA Act. What we are doing in our schools today is not required by the Constitution. And sooner or later the people are going to rise up and put an end to it. 
   Let me just share this thought with you. Taking a gun to school by a youngster is a Federal crime. What if they are put in jail, do they have to be sent back to the school? That is just the point. 
   Let me read this letter I received just a few weeks ago from one of Alabama's most experienced attorneys general: 
   He has been a leader in the State Attorney General Association.  
   Dear Jeff: 
   I am writing you this letter concerning my general outrage over the laws of the Federal Government and how they are being administered in relation to school violence. 
   I had already been having meetings with our Superintendent of Education concerning new rules and interpretations of rules based on what I believe to be the Federal Disabilities Act. 
   The general thrust of the matter is that violent children are being kept in school because of the Federal Rules relative to disabilities. 
   I can point to at least seven to nine occasions in Baldwin County--  
   His county----  
   in which I believe expulsion was called for, but could not be accomplished because of the interpretation of the Disabilities Act. 
   I realize that mental disorders can be a disability, but the primary concern should be  the safety of the children who are not causing any difficulties. 
   Our schools simply do not have sufficient resources for one on one education and I would hope that you and other members of Alabama's delegation would review this problem which I believe to be epidemic throughout this Country.  
   Here is an editorial in the Mobile Press Register about a 14-year-old student classified as ``EC,'' emotionally conflicted. 
   He had to be assigned an aide to go to school, to go to class with him. One aide to this one student because of his problems, an aide assigned to him during school hours and during bus rides to and from school. The student was accused of assaulting his aide while the aide tried to stop him from trying to wreck the schoolbus. 
   These are the kinds of things that have happened all over America. This bill does not go far enough, in my opinion. It only says, if you bring a deadly weapon to school, and in violation of Federal law, you have to be treated like everybody else, and you do not get special protections because you are emotionally conflicted. 
   In fact, emotionally conflicted kids may often be the most dangerous ones, the ones most likely to come back in, say, 6 months from now and kill some innocent child in a classroom or shoot their teacher. This is a good step forward. I would like to, if I could, be listed as a cosponsor of the legislation. 
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your leadership on so many matters of education. I just wanted to share those remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-17-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If a child is emotionally conflicted and brought a gun to school on one occasion, why do we think he might not do that on another occasion, even some months later? It is a safety question for the school. 
   This is a modest step in the sense that it doesn't say you can do anything if he beats up another student; it just says that if he brings a deadly weapon to the school, he can be treated like any other student and be removed. I think that is a good step and support the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-18-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. All I would say is the district attorney, David Whetstone, is a reasonable man. He is very concerned. I am hearing repeatedly from school superintendents and principals that no matter what we say about, in theory, how this law works, in practicality, it is endangering the lives of students, disrupting classrooms, causing teachers to quit, and costing untold amounts of money. In fact, the superintendent from Vermont did testify that 20 percent of his county's budget goes to special education students. Somehow we have gotten out of sync here. We need to move back to a more modest ground, I say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-19-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. You have been a champion of that, but even then our goal is to do 40 percent, not 100 percent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-20-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. We haven't even honored our commitment to do 40 percent. But even then, 60 percent of it would be carried by the local school system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-21-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-22-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator HATCH and the managers of this bill, I would like to make a few remarks at this time on the time of Senator HATCH. 
   Senator DOMENICI, I thank you very much for your willingness to become engaged in this issue, to confront some of these problems. I, like you, do not believe the airways and all this country are necessarily free for every use piped into our homes, for our children, when people are not ready to deal with it. 
   I wonder if you remember the time when the Pope came to Hollywood, 10 or 12 years ago, and met with movie moguls--at least a decade ago I suppose. I have a vivid recollection of members coming out of that meeting. He had all the Hollywood titans and moguls there. He talked to them about the need for them to improve the entertainment they were putting out. He urged them to do better. 
   The Hollywood titans came out and they were interviewed on the television. They said: He made some very good points. We have to consider that. We have to do better. 
   I remember Charlton Heston came out at the very end and they said: Mr. Heston, do you think anything is going to change? 
   He looked right in the camera and said: They wouldn't change if the Lord himself spoke to them. They are after ratings and the almighty dollar. 
   If we do not have power under the first amendment to constrain some of this, I think it is quite appropriate that they be taken to task and they be urged, in the name of decency and humanity, to clean up their act. If you have to make money, do you have to make it at this low a level? 
   I wonder if the Senator has a comment on that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-23-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think the Senator is correct. We do have authority as Senators to speak out. 
   The President spoke out in a radio address just a few days ago, according to the Washington Post. He broadcast a radio address bluntly challenging the purveyors of violent movies and video games to accept a share of the responsibilities for the tragedies, such as the Columbine High School massacre, based on the evidence that some people become desensitized and are more prone to emulate what they see on the screen. 
   However, reading this very same article, when he went out, within hours of that radio address, and met personally with the titans of Hollywood, he delivered that message ``with all the force of a down pillow.'' 
   The Washington Times said he assured the filmmakers that they were not bad people, as they showered him with $2 million. He assured them they had no personal responsibility for the Columbine High School massacre in Littleton, CO. Instead of blaming Hollywood for making violent films, he said the real blame lies with theaters and video stores that show them and sell them to minors. 
   The President told the audience of stars and studio moguls that they should not blame the gun manufacturers either, but he blamed the Republican Members of Congress who will not enact his gun control laws. The President gingerly suggested at the Saturday night fundraiser in Beverly Hills that sustained exposure to ``indiscriminate environments can push children into destructive behavior,'' but he added quickly, the producers, directors, and actors who ponied up $2,500 per couple are not at fault. ``That doesn't make anybody who makes any movie or any video game or television program a bad person or personally responsible with one show with a disastrous outcome. There is no call for finger pointing here.'' He later went on to note we were going to work it out as family. 
   We need to send a clearer message than that. Perhaps his radio message was a better message. It is unfortunate that when he met with them face to face, he toned it down an awful lot, apparently. I suggest, if the Senator will comment, which one does he think those media moguls are going to believe was his real view, the one he said on the radio or the one he said to them personally? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-24-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will briefly make some comments concerning the Wellstone-Kennedy amendment and share some thoughts on this situation with which we are wrestling. 
   Right across the street on the marble of the U.S. Supreme Court are the words ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' That is a cornerstone of American thought. It is a cornerstone of our belief of who we are as a people. It is critical that we maintain that in our juvenile and adult court systems, and that in all aspects of our American court system we recognize that people who come before the court must be treated equally, regardless of their station, regardless of their race, regardless of their sex, and regardless of their religion. That is so basic to who we are as a people. 
   We have not always been perfect in that. In fact, we have made a number of errors over the years. Less than an hour ago, I met in my office with Dr. Glenda Curry, who is the president of Troy State University in Montgomery. She is completing work on the Rosa Parks Museum. Rosa Parks was a victim of an unfair system, and when asked to move to the back of the bus in Montgomery, AL, in the 1950s, she said no. She refused to move, and she challenged an unjust law and was able to overturn that. 
   To say we have never had problems or we do not have problems in the fairness of law is not accurate. This Nation has made tremendous progress. We are moving well to eliminating those kinds of things. They are just not showing that. 
   I will tell our concerns which are so troubling. Under the previous legislation, that Senators WELLSTONE and KENNEDY proposed to use again in this bill, the law required, before a State can receive money, they have to submit a plan and their plan shall ``address efforts to reduce''--reduce--``the proportion of juveniles detained or confined in secure detention facilities, secure correctional facilities, jails, and lockups who are members of minority groups if such proportion exceeds the proportion such groups represent in the general population.'' It says the numbers have to be reduced based on race. 
   We need to strive to make sure that nobody is incarcerated who is not guilty of a crime, but we ought not be passing a law requiring the reduction of the proportion of juveniles confined if it simply does not meet a perfect numerical percentage. 
   I believe, as a result of my study of the Supreme Court decision in Adarand as well as other cases, that this is unconstitutional, and it is certainly bad policy. 
   Under the leadership of Senator HATCH, who is a scholar on these issues and who has held hearings on what to do about quotas and affirmative action, the Judiciary Committee developed and passed this legislation with this language, and we changed it slightly. This plan, which the States have to submit to be eligible for funding shall, ``to the extent that segments of the juvenile population are shown to be detained or confined in secure detention facilities, secure correctional facilities, jails and lockups, to a greater extent than the proportion of these groups in the general juvenile population, address prevention efforts designed to reduce such disproportionate confinement, without requiring the release or the failure to detain any such individual.'' 
   In other words, this focuses on the problem more directly. It says that when you have $1 billion of prevention money in this juvenile justice bill, that prevention money needs to be directed to try to prevent crime. But it also suggests that that prevention effort ought to be directed to those kids if they are in a minority population that exceeds the number in the general population in the juvenile court system. 
   So I think this is a reasonable and constitutional provision. I think it is a right step. I simply and reluctantly must say I have to oppose this amendment. I just do not believe it can be justified under what I understand to be a legitimate constitutional law. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. HATCH addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-25-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Object. Reserving the right to object, we have been using time. On what subject? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-26-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Utah for his leadership. He raises a good question about statistics and how they can be misleading. I had, of course, served as attorney general of Alabama, and I have a brief here that was submitted on statistics involving whites and blacks on death row in Alabama. Now, 52 percent of those on death row in Alabama are white; 46 percent are black. But that percentage of the black population is substantially higher on death row than in the State. But the study goes on to show that the percentage of homicides committed in Alabama by blacks was 71 percent; yet, they represented only 46 percent of the people on death row. 
   So I don't know what any of those numbers mean. I am not sure they are very beneficial to anybody. But if you look at it one way, it looks like it is unfair. If you look at it another way, it looks like it is not unfair. So the Senator is correct that we need to have proof of individual wrongs instead of passing a law that is going to require the reduction of people in prison based on a statistical study. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I had a question: Could we reach a time agreement? We could certainly cut debate on any amendments from this side, I think, to a very short time, and then we ought to be able to reach a time agreement. 
   The majority leader would allow this bill to come up and we could have the votes that the Senator would like to have, but we need an ending date. We cannot go on with the ``walking'' filibuster that puts all the agenda of this Congress on hold because of an unlimited time debate. 
   Could we do that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would like about 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from Utah for his leadership on crime issues of all kinds for quite a number of years. In particular, I have had the honor to work with him on this juvenile crime bill. He is a skilled legislator. He understands the criminal justice system in America and contributes significantly to it. He is also an outstanding spokesman on behalf of a rational and well-thought-out system of criminal justice in America. 
   Mr. President, I have an amendment that I believe will be accepted which is very important and can be an effective step in improving juvenile justice. It deals with a juvenile hotline. 
   A number of years ago, when I was a U.S. attorney in Alabama, 7or 8 years ago, not too long, we had a conference about young people carrying guns and committing crimes and what we could do about it. We came up with a plan--the chief of police, the district attorney, the probation officer, the Coalition for a Drug Free Mobile, and other groups--to encourage people who saw children in trouble or in danger to call. The police worked out their 911 number, and it can be boiled down to a bumper sticker. It said: ``Kid with gun, call 911.'' The idea was to get people involved in that kind of program. 
   Just recently, the State of Alabama developed a program to call a statewide 1-800 number hotline. They have had some remarkable successes with that. 
   I would like to introduce as one of the permissible uses of the funds in this bill a program we call the CRISIS grant program. It is a confidential reporting of individuals suspected of imminent school violence. I will introduce this amendment to S. 254. 
   Hotlines are violence prevention tools. The establishment of confidential hotlines that parents, students, and teachers would call to alert State and local enforcement entities of threats of imminent school violence or other suspicious criminal acts is an important prevention tool that can save kids' lives and prevent other wrongdoing. 
   Early identification of and intervention with potentially violent juveniles before they commit a violent act is certainly to be supported. This amendment will allow the States to use this CRISIS grant money to support both the independent State development and State operation of hotline programs. It will ensure that State personnel who will be answering those calls are trained properly. It will allow the State to acquire technology necessary to enhance the hotline's effectiveness, including Internet web pages perhaps, enhance State efforts to offer appropriate counseling services to individuals who call the hotline threatening to do themselves or others harm, and to further State efforts to publicize the service so that people will know about it and will be encouraged to use it. No additional funds will be expended out of this program, but it will utilize funds that have already been considered part of our juvenile crime bill. 
   So this would be a program under the State, not Federal control. State governments are, I think, anxious in considering just these kinds of projects. I believe it will be something every State should give the most serious consideration to. 
   Let me tell you a recent Alabama example, really in response to the Littleton tragedy. People asked themselves, what could we do? How could we avoid that? Is there a communication problem? How can we respond to it? Alabama established this confidential free hotline. The program has the support of Alabama's Democratic Governor and Republican Attorney General. In the first 2 weeks of operation, the Department of Public Safety reports receiving over 800 phone calls from communities, large and small, urban and rural, throughout the State in Alabama. Each of these incidents reported to the hotline are forwarded to 
   the appropriate local law enforcement for investigation and followup. The program grades these calls in terms of severity of threat. 
   Of the 800 calls that came in to the hotline, almost 50 percent were classified as an imminent threat, a possible threat, or a drug threat--the three most severe categories. Calls made in these threat categories are referred immediately to local law enforcement for investigation. 
   In addition to law enforcement, Alabama has someone available from the State Mental Health Department to counsel or refer individuals who call in who are threatening suicide or to hurt someone else. It will help States achieve both the goals of enhancing law enforcement and provide appropriate counseling to individual callers. 
   Additionally, the majority of the calls made to the State hotline occurred during the hours of 4 to 9 p.m. each day, and they came predominantly from parents of schoolchildren who are repeating or passing on things they heard from their children, perhaps some at the supper table. Parents are serving as filters of information. They are not likely to call in if they do not think there is any possibility of a problem. 
   Usually most of the calls are deemed to have been credible that are being received by the hotline. It allows for the identification of individuals who may have multiple complaints. So multiple calls about a particular individual could lead to a positive law enforcement response. 
   The Huntsville Times editorialized in favor of this and wrote an article about an incident in which five students at a junior high school in Russell County  were charged with planning to bomb their school and who had created a hit list of teachers and administrators. In addition to the hit list, some witnesses reported seeing a detailed map of the school. It is the kind of information that could be brought in through a hotline. 
   I will quote from that editorial.  
   Because of the Columbine shooting spree, we will never again be sure if threats are threats or merely false alarms ..... We don't recommend panic or paranoia. But if the threats come, they must be investigated. And if the evidence is found, it can't be ignored or assumed to be a prank.  
   I believe this is a good program. I thank Senator HATCH for his interest in supporting this. If I am not mistaken, I believe that Members on the other side are perhaps prepared to accept this as an amendment to our bill. I am pleased to note that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I will leave my remarks at this time. I am hopeful the managers will make that part of a managers' amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I did want to offer at this time another amendment, without objection, a disclaimer amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. This amendment simply says that with regard to the materials that can be printed--and we expect a lot of materials will be printed as a result of the almost $900 million-plus that will be going forward for juvenile crime programs--that those materials be accountable to the American people. I ask that we simply print on those materials a disclaimer that will note that this material was produced by the Federal Government. It would say, in fact, this:  
   This material has been printed, procured or distributed, in the whole or in part, at the expense of the Federal Government. Any person who objects to the accuracy of the material, the completeness of the material, or to the representations made within the material, including objections related to the material's characterization of religious beliefs, are encouraged to direct their comments to the office of Attorney General of the United States.  
   It further requires that the Attorney General designate one of her offices to receive the complaints, and to submit summaries of those complaints to the Congress, including the Senate and House Judiciary Committees, the majority leader, the Speaker, and minority leaders in the House and in the Senate. 
   We believe this would be a unique opportunity to allow persons who are receiving materials funded by the Federal Government to express concerns and provide information that may make those materials better. In addition, we believe like it would allow the Congress to be able to monitor the material, because what so often happens--and most people may not even realize it--this Congress proposes funds and they go out to various organizations who print material that can be very helpful, and some of it is excellent. Some of it is not good. Periodically, we receive complaints on materials that go against deeply held views of Americans, and which are inaccurate. 
   So this amendment would allow for a disclaimer on such materials. When people see it, they will know where to write. They would have a central place within the Department of Justice to receive it. Then they could, in fact, review the complaints and we could take steps to correct it. 
   Mr. President, how much time do I have left? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
   Mr. WELLSTONE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. My question is, Is the Senator aware of just how much flexibility the prevention funds, that make up 55 percent of this bill, have to expend for the kind of program that he mentioned? It goes on for many pages. 
   For example: One-on-one mentoring projects designed to link at-risk and juvenile offenders who commit serious crimes; provide for treatment of juvenile defendants who abuse alcohol or drugs; getting priority to juveniles who have been arrested; projects to provide leverage funds for scholarships; provide intake screening that may include drug testing; delinquency prevention activities that involve youth clubs, sports recreation, training, and so forth; family strengthening activities, such as mutual support groups for parents and children. 
   It goes from about page 75 through 93, and it concludes item in 16, ``other activities likely to prevent juvenile delinquency.'' 
   About 55 percent of the funds available here can be used for that. I think the Senator is correct that we really need to do a good assessment right there at the beginning--whether it be drug problems, mental health problems, or anger problems. 
   I think this bill does more perhaps than the Senator realizes. I wonder if the Senator is aware of the breadth of some of the things we could spend the money on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-11-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-12-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-13-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think those are matters of great importance. How many counselors? Is that the best way to spend money for our school systems? Having wrestled with this bill for over 2 years, in my view those are matters that need to come out of the education bill because they are dealing with education problems that may lead to crime later. We have tried to focus, as much as possible, on the crimes and with those children who are already in trouble, and how to fix and change their lifestyle. 
   I am just showing my colleague the theory of our bill. The amendment of the Senator may be worthwhile, but it simply goes beyond what we have had hearings on, and really should come out of the Education Committee. That would be my comment, with all due respect, because I know how deeply the Senator believes in these issues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-14-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I know the Senator from Minnesota believes strongly in what he is saying. I just want to respond in a couple of ways by saying this is a $1.5 billion bill of new spending, and over 55 percent of it is designed for prevention programs that can be used for many of the things about which the Senator is concerned. 
   But it is not an education bill. I think that we do better if we are going to talk about 100,000 guidance counselors--which is a lot of money for that--that we need to talk about that in the Education Committee. The Senator from Minnesota is a member of that committee. We need to thrash it out. Maybe music would do better to reduce crime than hiring guidance counselors. Who knows? So I am not sure I can agree with his amendment as broad as he has suggested. 
   The President of the United States has stated recently that he was not happy with the way Hollywood has gone about presenting violence, and he suggested that they need to do better. The Vice President has also suggested they need to do better. Then the President went out to Hollywood this past weekend to raise money from these very same people. The papers report that he raised $2 million from the ``glittering lights'' of Hollywood just over the weekend. And during that time he had an opportunity, in an intimate surrounding, to talk personally with the ``leading lights'' of that fair city. There have been a number of reports about it. 
   I feel strongly about this. I have worked very hard for this piece of legislation, for over 2 years, and I have only been in this Senate for a little over 2 years. I was a Federal prosecutor and a State prosecutor for 17 years, and I think I know something about crime. 
   I feel like I am sometimes in a different world. We are trying to bring forth a piece of legislation that can honestly strengthen the juvenile justice system in America, giving them opportunities and options to confront young people who are going on the wrong road and to direct them away from a life of crime. 
   Even, Mr. President, your area there in Littleton, even those individuals, from my reading of the paper, had previously been arrested for rather serious offenses. The pattern all over America is that they are released immediately. The suggestion the Senator from Minnesota made that our jails are filled with nonviolent 11- and 12-year-olds is not accurate. We have 70,000 beds for young people today in America. That is a little over 1,000 per State. I am telling you, we have some serious crime. Adult bed spaces went up dramatically, and adult crime has gone down dramatically. But for young people, the  juvenile bed spaces have not gone up much, whereas juvenile crime, serious, violent juvenile crime, murders, assault with intent to murder, armed robbery, those kinds of offenses have dramatically increased in the last 15 years. 
   We have not responded adequately. We need a system in which, at their first offense, we have an intervention that occurs, serious intervention: Drug testing, is this child being driven to crime because of drugs; mental health assessment; prison, if need be; detention, if need be. But most times it will not be detention on that first offense. Most of the time it will be probation. 
   Do we have just a paper probation where you come in once a month and report to your probation office and say: I haven't been arrested this week and I have been obeying all your laws? Or do you have a good intensive probation in which you go out and probation officers knock on the doors at night to see if they are abiding by curfews; they talk to their parents; to have counseling programs; maybe get them into mental health? It is already funded in most States--just get them into these mental health programs or treatment or counseling; maybe drug treatment is available. 
   That is what a good criminal justice system does. If we care about these kids, that is what we need to do. The idea we are going to spend billions on programs that are not dealing with kids, who are really proven to be at risk, and not even strengthening our 
   juvenile justice system so it can deal with the kids who are already getting in trouble with the law, strikes me as absolutely beyond the pale; it is through the looking glass; some sort of virtual reality. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-15-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-16-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. No. I did not say that. That is not what I meant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-17-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am saying we are here to try to pass out of the Judiciary Committee a juvenile crime bill. And you are suggesting some sort of massive, national program to have more guidance counselors. I suggest to you, the greatest way to keep kids from becoming adult career criminals is to intervene effectively in the juvenile court system when they are first arrested; maybe that first brush with the law will be their last. If we care about them, we will intervene. If we don't care about them, we will continue the way we are now. 
   In Chicago, they spend 5 minutes per case, according to a front page analysis by the New York Times. This is a system that is overwhelmed. Young people with serious multiple offenses simply walk through a revolving door. It is not good for them. If you care about them, you will do something about them. 
   Now, briefly, I will--I see the Senator perhaps wants to ask something else, but I do want to go on to another subject. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-18-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am perfectly prepared, in response to the Senator, to think seriously about what we might do at earlier stages. I think perhaps in your committee, in the Education Committee, we ought to be talking about that--Head Start programs, can they be improved; or even other kinds of programs connected to mental health, or what other issues might be good. 
   But our legislation isn't designed to fix the whole world. We cannot fix everything in every piece of legislation that comes down. We have $1 billion here, and a lot of it can be used for those very things you ask for. In fact, I would say, 55 percent of it could be used for programs very much consistent with what you favor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-19-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. It came out of the Judiciary Committee last year with a bipartisan vote and could not be brought up in the close of the session. It was brought up this year without additional hearings; although the ranking member of the Juvenile Violence Subcommittee, which I Chair, Senator BIDEN, had obtained a significant amendment to have even 20 percent more money for the program for prevention that Senator HATCH and Senator BIDEN worked out together, and even moved further. But we did not have additional hearings this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-20-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I understand the Senator's deep feelings. I just say, if you talk to judges, juvenile judges, who care about kids, too, juvenile probation officers, who have given their lives to kids, those people tell me--and will tell you, if you ask them--they have insufficient capacity to confront them. 
   I have visited superior juvenile court systems. They have schools, boot camps, detention facilities, work programs, and so forth; and this bill would support all of those. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-21-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I would like to raise again and discuss the frustrations I have of where we are today, that, to me, are incomprehensible. I think I know why. We are talking about politics and money too often. We have a number of amendments in this bill and provisions that deal with improving the culture that our children grow up in. 
   I do not think there is anyone that disagrees that violence on television and in movies exacerbates tendencies of violence in young people. 
   Now, our President has gone out to Hollywood, after scolding them a bit a few days ago, to meet with the leaders out there and raise a little money--$2 million. This is what the Washington Times reported this morning:  
   President Clinton told the makers of violent films and video games over the weekend that they are not ``bad'' people as they showered him with $2 million. 
   He assured them they had no personal responsibility in the Columbine High School massacre in Littleton, Colo. 
   Instead of blaming Hollywood for making violent films, he said, the real blame lies with the theaters and video stores that show and sell them to minors. 
   The president told the audience of stars and studio moguls that they should not blame the gun manufacturers, either, but blame instead the Republican members of Congress who won't enact stringent gun-control laws.  
   Every year we pass more gun laws. I am going to talk about that in a minute. This administration has gutted the prosecution of gun laws in America, and I will show the numbers to prove it.  
   The president gingerly suggested at a Saturday-night fund-raiser in Beverly Hills that that sustained exposure ``to indiscriminate violence through various media outlets'' can push vulnerable children ``into destructive behavior.''  
   I think that is universally agreed.  
   But, he quickly added, the producers, directors and actors who ponied up $25,000 per couple are not at fault. 
   ``Now, that doesn't make anybody who makes any movie or any video game or any television program a bad person or personally responsible with one show for a disastrous outcome,'' Mr. Clinton said. ``There's no call for finger-pointing here.''  
   The article goes on:  
   Although Mr. Clinton had resolved earlier to nudge Hollywood away from some of its violent excesses, he appeared reluctant to broach the sensitive subject during remarks to the entertainment executives who included Steven Spielberg, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen, founders of Dreamworks SKG Studio. 
   ``You've helped me through thick and thin for all these long years,'' the president said. ``The people of California were very good to  me and Al Gore and to our families..... And I am very, very grateful.''  
   He said he was ``having a good time in Los Angeles.'' 
   Although the president complained that underage children are often allowed to rent or view movies that are PG-13 or R, he was careful to exempt Hollywood glitterati from this criticism.  
   ``There's a lot of evidence that these ratings are regularly ignored--not by you, but by the people who actually sell or rent videotapes or the video games or run the movie theaters,'' Mr. Clinton said.  
   The president reserved his strongest criticism for congressional Republicans, who last week voted against legislation that would have required background checks of those seeking to purchase guns as gun shows. 
   That is incorrect. We voted last week to substantially increase and step up the enforcement of laws at gun shows.  
   He said he has ``been to a lot of these gun shows.....''  
   Now, the minority leader of the House of Representatives, RICHARD GEPHARDT, and Senate minority leader, TOM DASCHLE, were also present, and they gave speeches to the guests, according to the article, ``who noshed on baked coconut clusters and chocolate-dipped strawberries, prepared by Wolfgang Puck, caterer to the stars.  
   The Democratic congressional leaders, staying away from the subject of Hollywood violence, lashed out at Republicans as extremists who unfairly impeached the president and must be deposed from power in Congress next year.  
   This is what the minority leader in the House of Representatives said:  
   The group that controls the Senate and the House is extreme, almost radical, in their views on all of the issues that I suspect you care about.  
   That is what Mr. GEPHARDT said. I take offense at that.  
   Mr. Daschle emphasized that Democrats comprised the party that best represents the views of Hollywood.  
   Probably so. I won't dispute that. That was the Washington Times. 
   This is what the Associated Press reported in a national story. Sandra Sobieraj of the Associated Press:  
   President Clinton slipped his right hand into his pants pockets and his voice eased into a conversational tone: ``Let's talk about the entertainment issue.'' 
   The eyes on him, from a small stone patio overlooking the lights of Los Angeles, belonged to Hollywood's hottest--Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen, Rob Reiner, Goldie Hawn, Kurt Russell, Dennis Quaid, Steven Spielberg, whom Clinton called ``Steve.'' 
   All had just paid the Democratic Party between $25,000 and $100,000 for a Wolfgang Puck-catered dinner with the President. ``You've helped me through thick and thin all these long years,'' the President told the intimate assembly.  
   What does he mean, ``You've helped me through thick and thin''? Well, the Clinton legal defense fund, when he had himself in a fix and had impeachment charges against him, started raising money to defend him. Here are some of the contributions: Kate Capshaw-Spielberg, $10,000; David Geffen, $10,000; Norman and Lyn Lear, $10,000; Steven Spielberg, $10,000; Barbra Streisand, $10,000. Yes, they have been with him through thick and thin. 
   Continuing with the AP report of this event:  
   So it was that Clinton, pushing a national campaign against the kind of youth violence seen in the Colorado school shootings, only gently took entertainment types to task for movies and TV shows that glorify violence. He softly prodded changes in their ads and ratings. 
   ``There's no call for finger-pointing here. We are determined to do this as a family,'' he said.  
   Hollywood and Mr. Clinton are in the same family.  
   He spoke Saturday at Greystone Mansion, a city-owned landmark.  
   Hawn, squeezing past the reporters to sneak a smoke with Kurt Russell, ignored questions about the president's challenge to Hollywood. Lisa Kudrow, of TV's ``Friends,'' played dumb: ``What? I haven't spoken to him,'' she said. 
   I don't suppose he raised the question of the showing of smoking in movies and TV now or questioned whether Goldie Hawn ought to be out smoking. 
   The article goes on to note that:  
   Dinner with the President: $25,000 to $100,000 per couple. Shoes optional. 
   Hawn padded around the elegant and Gothic-styled Greystone Mansion in a halter top and bare feet, picking at her rat's nest hairdo.  
   That is what the AP said.  
   Spielberg and Geffen wore white sneakers. Russell sported cowboy boots. Quaid was in T-shirts, jeans and bomber jacket. 
   Looking ahead, Clinton said he was consulting on his Little Rock, Ark., presidential library with Spielberg. ``We were talking about whether we could have some virtual reality effects in my library in the museum, you know,'' he said. ``Sometimes I feel like I'm living in virtual reality, so I'm highly interested in this.''  
   Sometimes I think I am living in some sort of unreal reality. 
   The President of the United States has made some statements about juvenile justice, and I want to talk about them in just a minute. They strike me as being very unreal. This is the Washington Post article right here, a staff writer covering the same event, John Harris:  
   President's Message on Movies Undergoes a Change of Address.  
   Here in Washington he was fussing about the movies.  
   President Clinton let Hollywood have it Saturday night. Ever ..... so ..... gently. 
   ``There's no call for finger-pointing here,'' Clinton said during a Democratic fund-raiser in Beverly Hills, a glittering evening attended by some of the most potent names in Hollywood. 
   Just hours earlier Clinton had broadcast a radio address in which he bluntly challenged purveyors of violent movies and video games to accept a share of responsibility for tragedies such as the Columbine High School massacre--  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-22-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes, I yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-23-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-24-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I don't expect to take more than 10, 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-25-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. So, at this event, the Washington Post staff writer had noted:  
   Just hours earlier Clinton had broadcast a radio address [nationwide] in which he bluntly challenged purveyors of violent movies and video games to accept a share of responsibility for tragedies such as the Columbine High School massacre, based on evidence that some young people become ``desensitized'' by, and more prone to emulate, what they see on-screen.  
   I think there is a universal belief that a violent tendency can be exacerbated by seeing graphic violence in a movie, particularly in a way that shows anger being carried out and vented, which disturbs me most about some of these scenes. 
   The article goes on:  
   As luck would have it, Clinton had a chance to deliver that same message in person thanks to a fund-raiser for Democrats (up to $100,000 per couple) catered by Wolfgang Puck's Spago and hosted by DreamWorks Studio titans David Geffen, Jeffrey Katzenberg and Steven Spielberg.  
   There were many stars in the audience, including Dennis Quaid, Meg Ryan, Goldie Hawn, Kurt Russell, and Rob Reiner.  
   But this time, Clinton made his point with all the force of a down pillow. To be sure, some young people will be pushed over the edge by violent imagery, he acknowledged. But that ``doesn't make anybody who makes any movie or any video game or any television program a bad person or personally responsible with one show for a disastrous outcome,'' Clinton said. And he allowed that ``for most kids it won't make any difference'' what sort of bloody gore they are exposed to. 
   He said Hollywood should recognize that ``all these things go together'' and that their movies can lead to bad results, when combined with ..... guns.'' 
   Clinton said he didn't want to lecture, and praised the entertainment industry for working with him and Vice President Gore to craft ..... ratings. ``We are determined to do this as a family,'' he 
   said....... 
   All in all, it was a sermon so polite in its message, and so tentative in delivery, that it will no doubt hearten critics in the Republican fold who will point out how difficult it is to enjoy duck potstickers with ponzu and wild mushroom ravioli in one moment, then rise up the next to tell the friends you're sharing the meal with some of their work is a form of cultural pollution.   
   I think we do have a problem. I think the President is too close to Hollywood. I don't think he is capable of carrying through a policy that can improve what has happened. It is sad. I wish it weren't so. I think it is accurate, though. Which do you think they are going to believe? The radio address he made for politics? They understand this. That is a radio address for politics. But when he comes out and talks with them one-on-one, eyeball-to-eyeball, they know he is really not serious because he told them that. I have a problem with leadership when it is not consistent and firm and doesn't mean what it says. 
   The article goes on to note:  
   In his radio address, for example, Clinton issued ``three specific challenges'' for the entertainment industry to clean up its act. Saturday night, the word ``challenges'' was dropped in favor of ``other things,'' that Clinton presented as humble suggestions. * * * * * 
   Clinton's politesse was understandable. Hollywood actors and studio executives, overwhelmingly Democratic and financially generous, are famously sensitive about their craft. Several have publicly bridled at widespread commentary in recent weeks that the Columbine killings and other murderous incidents involving young people might have been spurred by entertainment celebrating violence. 
   In any event, Clinton is personal friends with many people in Hollywood. In fact, before leaving for San Diego for yet another fund-raiser, his motorcade made an unannounced stop in Malibu. Clinton hopped out for breakfast with Barbara Streisand.  
   Well, I say that because I am here, and I have been working to have a good crime bill that will help reduce juvenile violence in America, based on what my experience tells me and my friendships and conversations over a career, a lifetime of prosecuting tells me it is important. I know many juvenile probation officers personally. I know many juvenile judges personally. I have visited the court systems in Alabama and in Ohio with Senator DEWINE, and we have talked about it. I have talked with many prosecutors. I have known them for years. I know assistant district attorneys who prosecute juvenile cases and probation officers who work with them, and people who manage juvenile detention facilities. Some have probably heard that this bill just puts everyone in prison. ``You just want to lock them up,'' they say. 
   I don't want to lock up young people. I don't believe Alabama is far different than most. A juvenile judge tells me they have a point system for the State juvenile detention center, and it takes four prior burglary convictions before they will take a young person, because that is how serious a crime has to be. 
   We had a murder in Montgomery, AL, where a night watchman was killed by three young people. I called the police chief, who I have known for years, and asked him what kind of prior records they had. They were 16 and 15 years old. One had 5 prior arrests, another had 5 prior arrests, and the third one had 15 prior arrests. 
   Talk to your police officers, talk to your juvenile judges. They will tell you that the juvenile court system in America is overwhelmed. We have had very little increase in the last 15 or 20 years in juvenile detention space because--I guess it is the liberals who always say: You just want to lock up kids, and people recoil from that. But we have, in this last 15, 20 years, more than a doubling, maybe tripling or quadrupling, of serious crime, the kind of crime you can do something about. I am talking about armed robberies, assault with intent to murder, murders, and rapes. What are you going to do when a 16-year-old commits an armed robbery? 
   You have to have something to be done. I suggest we ought to do like Mobile, AL, has, and Judge Grossman has in Ohio, a system where he brings that child in, they will do drug testing to see if they are strung out on drugs, they will bring their family in for counseling, and if it is appropriate, he will be detained for either a short period or perhaps sent through a boot camp that has an intensive supervision with a school. 
   We have learned that boot camps are not the cure-all we thought they were. So now any good boot camp has a very intensive follow-up. When they go back into the community, they appear to be changed. But if they go back to the same friends and the same neighborhood, they tend to drift back into crime. You don't get the change in them you thought you had when they walked out of that boot camp saying, ``Yes, sir,'' and, ``No, sir.'' It is a sad thing. We are always trying to improve that. 
   But you have to have the capacity for the courts to discipline. Police officers tell me all the time: ``Jeff, these kids are laughing at us. We can't do anything to them, and they know it.'' We tried to make some changes in the Federal regulations that would allow children who are arrested in rural areas for serious offenses to be held in a separate part of a local jail, totally apart from any adult. ``Oh, no, that wouldn't do. Oh, no. Some adult may yell down the hall at them and say bad names to them and damage their psyche.'' 
   The reason this is important--I want you to understand--is that police and sheriffs in small towns cannot afford to build a separate juvenile jail for a half dozen young people. They don't have them, and it is stupid and inefficient to require them to have them. The Federal mandate says you cannot spend one night in anything but a juvenile jail that is certified as a juvenile jail. 
   What the police tell me--when I was attorney general, I rode for a year and a half with the police chief of 18 years, as fine and decent a person as I have ever known--commuting back and forth, both of us, to Montgomery. We talked on those long drives about what was happening. And what he tells me is--and what I talked to hundreds of police about--is that policemen out at night can catch a youngster burglarizing a house, or catch them in a store, and they take them down to the police station. Maybe there is one officer on duty. They put them in the lobby of the police station. They call the judge, and they call his mom. His mom comes and gets him and takes him home. The next morning, he is out on the street and he is telling his running buddies about getting caught and being let loose. 
   That is what is happening. They can say whatever they want to, but I am telling you, you ask your police officer if that is not what is happening. We need a better ability to deal with that. We have only a very minor improvement in that regard, because our ``psyche'' may be injured. 
   But it is not good for those children, if you care about them, to just arrest them and let them go, with minimal probation or supervision. They commit another crime, and they commit another crime, and still nothing is happening to them. 
   I am telling you that 11-, 12-, and 13-year old kids are not in jail in juvenile courts in America for any minor offense. That is not the reality. So we believe we need to enhance the ability of that juvenile court to intervene effectively to improve it. We believe we can do more in that regard. 
   That is the core of this bill, for those who wanted so many different ideas of prevention--there is a lot of money in there for a lot of new and creative ideas for prevention programs. 
   But one thing President Clinton's Department of Justice did was have a study of the prevention programs in America. What they found is, we are spending the money on programs that do not work well, and in fact, we are spending more money on the programs that work the least. It is a very serious criticism of prevention 
   programs. We have to be sure they work before we send the money. We ought to have some in-depth hearings on that. 
   Finally, the reason I spent some time talking about these Hollywood articles is that I think there are real numbers of factors that go into causing crime. The President says it is the Republicans because they won't pass every gun law he can create. And as soon as you pass one, they come up with another one. He is out with his family now in Hollywood, with members of his philosophical family. He is letting his hair down. And what does he say? He says it is Republicans who won't pass gun laws. There is never an end. 
   That is why these issues are important. 
   I served for 12 years as a Federal prosecutor. I prosecuted a lot of violation of gun laws by criminals, people who were committing crimes and shooting people regularly. We were very aggressive on it. The Federal law is tough. It has 5 years without parole  if you carry a gun during the commission of a felony. It has the Speedy Trial Act. You are tried within 70 days. When you are sentenced, there is no parole, and the Federal law mandates just how long you have to serve. It is a long time. People who are caught with guns don't want to go to Federal court. Some think Federal court is easy. Not so. Federal court is much tougher than most State courts in America, particularly on gun cases. 
   When I left office at the end of the Bush administration, there were 7,048 prosecutions of gun violations in America. Since President Clinton has been in office, that number has dropped every year until it reached 3,807 in 1998, a 40-percent decline in prosecutions. 
   So the test is, if you really care about guns, according to the President and the Attorney General, Will you pass a new law? I would say to you, the real test is, Will you enforce the laws we have? 
   You remember a number of years ago when we added a Federal law to make it a felony to take a firearm on a school ground, a Federal law that makes it a crime to deliver a firearm to a young person, a Federal law against carrying assault weapons, those all passed by this Congress. 
   Let me show you the results of the prosecutions by this Department of Justice and this President who believes so passionately that guns cause crime. 
   Possession of firearms on school grounds: 
   In his press conference just a few weeks ago, he said there were 6,000 incidents of carrying firearms on school grounds. In 1997, nationwide, all 92 U.S. attorneys prosecuted 5 of those cases; in 1998, 8 of them. That is all that were prosecuted. 
   Why do we pass laws if they are not going to be prosecuted? The reason is politics. It is not crime fighting, it is politics. 
   Unlawful transfer of firearms to juveniles: Not a bad law; in 1997, Janet Reno's Department of Justice prosecuted five; in 1998 they prosecuted six. 
   Possession or transfer of semiautomatic weapons: The assault weapons ban--such an important law, that if anybody didn't vote for it was a virtual criminal, who just wanted to have people shot by assault weapons--we passed the Federal law before I got here. There were only four prosecutions in each of the past 2 years. 
   I deeply believe in this. Are we at a point where the reality in America is what you say and not what you do? Is that what the reality in America is today? No wonder the President calls the Hollywood stars family, because they do not live in a life of reality. The only thing that counts is what you say on the screen. It doesn't make any difference what your life is outside of that. It is the vision that goes on. 
   I couldn't help but recall that incident in which we had perhaps the greatest untruth ever told by any President in the history of this country when the President of the United States had his news conference, pointed his finger, and said, ``I did not have sexual relations with that woman.'' 
   We know how that was done now. It was orchestrated by the Thomases, his closest friends from Hollywood. They directed, scripted and choreographed how he would make that denial. 
   I submit that I am not really concerned about how we come up with language about sales of guns at gun shows. If anybody in this country thinks that is going to have a substantial impact on crime in America, I ask them to stand up, right now. It won't have a substantial impact. It may have an impact. It may be a good law. We will work to accommodate the President's request. 
   It concerns me that when we have a culture of violence the President won't stand up and be counted against it. 
   Those movies will have more impact on crime than whether or not we have a gun show law. 
   I have never been in a legislative body before. Maybe this is the way things happen all the time. I know this: We have tried to accommodate the Democrats time and time again. We have increased funding beyond my original vision of a bill that would help our juvenile court systems improve--even to more expansive prevention moneys, 55 percent of the money going to prevention, even a small part of that could even be used for any kind of boot camp or detention facility or treatment alternative school. 
   I am concerned about it. I believe we can improve the efforts against crime in America. I believe we need to enforce the laws that we have. I believe if we had 7,000 prosecutions in 1998 instead of 3,800, there would be innocent people alive today. These are target criminals. They ought to be prosecuted. I believe we can do better. 
   I am open to improvement in our legislation. Certainly, Senator HATCH has managed the bill and has done a great job with it. I respect his views. His leadership has been invaluable in moving this legislation along. What concerns me is we may be moving to a point where Members on the other side just don't want legislation. No matter how much we compromise, no matter how much we work together to make the bill to their liking, they still won't give us a time agreement. 
   I see the majority leader on the floor. The majority leader has a lot of things he needs to do in this Senate. If we are going to have a filibuster, how can we stay on this bill? If the Democrats are going to filibuster and kill this bill--if they stick together, they have that power--it would be a great tragedy. 
   There is much in this legislation that could improve our ability to reduce juvenile crime, to intervene in young people's lives and save young people from being victims of crimes. I hope we don't go that route. I hope we don't, after all this effort, have this legislation killed for political reasons. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-26-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask the majority leader, what you are asking for is simply that we take the amendments we have and you need so you can manage this body, and a time when we are going to complete? Because under the rules of this body, one person can talk and talk for days on one amendment, isn't that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-27-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think that is a realistic request. I have to say, I have seen this debate for a long time. I believe there is a group on the other side that wants no bill. I believe they don't want this bill to pass. I believe if we get this bill up it will pass. And I am very upset about it. I know Senator HATCH has done such tremendous work for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-28-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes, sir, I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-29-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-30-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will not yield at this point on that subject. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-31-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will yield to the Senator from Utah. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-32-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I think the Senator from Minnesota and I will probably not agree on this, and I would want to respond to what he said. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-33-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Did the Chair say we were on the Y2K? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-34-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent, notwithstanding the pendency of the motion to proceed, to offer this amendment on Senator ASHCROFT's behalf. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-35-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield to the Senator from Utah. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-36-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-37-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that, notwithstanding the pendency of the motion to proceed, to offer this amendment on Senator ASHCROFT's behalf. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-38-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I renew my offer of the Ashcroft amendment, I believe No. 348. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-39-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, one of the great delights in the Senate is being able to listen to Senator BYRD, on a number of occasions, share his wisdom with us. I think the story of the Roman legion and others he has shared with us are not unimportant. They go to the very heart of the decline in discipline and order in America today, and it is deeper than most people think. 
   I have often thought what good does it do to have a $500 text book if a 14-year-old won't read it, would even scoff at the thought of reading it, and has no intention of reading it or paying attention to the teacher, who we are paying and encouraging to try to teach. It does go back to the home. The home is also being undermined, I think, by the popular culture, as Senator BYRD suggests. It is difficult to conceive how we can have any moral order not founded in religion. 
   I suggest that we really don't need to amend the First Amendment. We really need to have it enforced as it is written. It says that Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of a religion. In other words, Congress can't establish a religion. That is us. Congress cannot establish a religion or prohibit the free exercise thereof. Congress can't prohibit the free exercise of religion. I think we need to get back to the first 175 year's interpretation of the plain words of that amendment, and little children might be able to 
   have a prayer in the morning. I don't think it hurt me. I think it was a benefit. As a matter of fact, I know the Senator knows Judge Griffin Bell, former Attorney General under President Jimmy Carter. He was asked once at a big bar meeting what he thought about the litmus test President Reagan was applying to judges. I think he shocked everybody in the room when he stepped up to the microphone and said, ``Well, we need a litmus test. Nobody ought to be a Federal judge who doesn't believe in prayer at football games.'' I have thought a lot about that. Maybe that had a lot of insight to it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, tomorrow we will be having a critical vote in the morning. It will be a vote on cloture to the Y2K legal reform bill that will be coming up. It is being subjected to a filibuster, unfortunately, by members of the minority. I hope that in the morning the agreements can be reached so that that vote will result in our ability to proceed with the bill and that we could make some progress. 
   To share a few comments on it, the computer industry is critical to America's growth, prosperity and ability to be competitive in the world market. It is one of our major exports. People come here from all over the world to learn about computers. Our design and technology has created a huge number of jobs that have been very helpful to America, and we are exporting around the globe large product in that area, which helps us with our balance of payments, which is not good in general. 
   In addition, and maybe even more important, high tech computer equipment is increasing our productivity as a nation. As a matter of fact, Alan Greenspan has raised the question in several moments of testimony I have been present to hear in the last 2 years as to how it is possible that we can have an increase in wages much higher than the increase in inflation, the cost  of goods and services. If salaries are going up, why isn't inflation going up? 
   He has been afraid and expressed his fear that if we keep raising wages--and I hope we can just keep raising wages, but his concern was it would drive inflation. But it has not. He has speculated in recent speeches and testimony, and many people have expressed the view that this is because of the impact of high technology, the computers. Now, a worker can produce so much more today than he could a few years ago because of the benefits of this high tech ability. So it is a critical thing for us as a Nation. 
   We want to be able to pay higher and higher wages. We want our productivity to continue to go up, but we don't want to create inflation at the same time. So this is a big deal. So we have this glitch, this year 2000 bug; when the numbers all become zeros out there, there is a concern, a very real concern, that a lot of computers are not going to work well, that whole systems may be in trouble--maybe a bank, maybe a grocery store in a checkout computer line, and things such as telephone systems and others could be in serious jeopardy and cost a lot of money. If it causes that, we have problems. 
   We are a combative society. It is a good thing for us sometimes, and sometimes it is not so good. The recent conference of the American Bar Association--and I made one comment previously on this. I suggested this was an official position of the ABA. I didn't mean to say so, but I think I suggested that. There was a seminar at the American Bar Association, and experts expressed great concerns about the impact of this litigation. We have received information that 500 or more law firms are already preparing seminars on how to handle the flood of litigation that is coming. It has been estimated that the legal costs of Y2K lawsuits could exceed that of asbestos, breast implants and tobacco all combined. 
   How could this be? Well, there are computer systems in every town in America. Every small town has them, and certainly the bigger towns have even bigger systems. If those systems cause a store to mess up, their stock inventory to mess up, or the phone system not to work, and those sorts of things, then we have a real problem. Somebody could file a lawsuit. 
   Now, we have a problem with filing lots of lawsuits. Let me share this story with you. A number of years ago, asbestos companies continued to sell asbestos after they had a reasonable basis to know that breathing asbestos by workers could make them ill. They should not have done that. They should have been held liable for that. Lawsuits were filed. To date, 200,000 asbestos lawsuits have been concluded, 200,000 more of them are pending, and it is estimated that maybe another 200,000 asbestos cases will be filed. 
   But the real tragedy--and as a lawyer who loves the law, I have to say this is a very real tragedy--was that only 40 percent of the money paid out by the asbestos companies actually got to the victims. 
   Costs ate up 60 percent of that. These cases took years to conclude. Individuals who had been victimized died before they ever got a dime. Sometimes even their wives died before their heirs received any benefits. It was not a good day for litigation in America. 
   One more thing: Seventy-percent of the asbestos companies are in bankruptcy today. 
   Don't tell me that if we unleash a flood of lawsuits in every county in America against the greatest, most innovative, creative industry this Nation has perhaps ever created, we can't damage that industry; indeed, we have the capacity to bankrupt. It is a threat to our national economic vitality, in my opinion, and we need to do something about it. 
   Senator MCCAIN and Senator HATCH have been working on this legislation. They have done everything they can to develop a bill with which both the Democrats and the Republicans can live. It will require that a computer company be given notice of the problem and have a chance to fix it before a lawsuit can be filed. Just give them a chance to fix it. They have to fix it. 
   Arbitration: If there is a disagreement, there will be compensation for damages, but it limits punitive damages to three times the actual lost, or $250,000, whichever is greater. 
   That is the general framework of what the bill contains--a reasonable attempt to get compensation and to focus on fixing the problem so that this country's commercial activities can continue in a very efficient way to put our money on fixing the problem and not on lawyers and lawsuits. If we fail in this, if we allow this to happen, somebody is going to bear the responsibility for it. Members who vote against this bill, who are not giving it a chance to work and are not willing to face up to this are going to have to bear a heavy responsibility. 
   We have to have real reform, too. If it is not going to go halfway, we might as well not try it. 
   By the way, 80 lawsuits have already been filed. We had testimony in the Judiciary Committee. The Senator from Missouri, who is presiding now, is a member of that committee. The witness liked the lawsuits. He won a couple of million dollars. I asked him how long it took. He said 2 years. I don't know how he won before he ever had a Y2K problem. But he won. I am thinking, there were just a few lawsuits filed at that time. It took him 2 years. What if you have hundreds of thousands of lawsuits clogging the courts? How can anybody get any legitimate compensation? It is going to be jackpot justice. One jury is going to give somebody $10 million, one is going to get zero, and that is not a way to handle it. 
   This bill for this one Y2K problem will provide a national framework, because this is clearly interstate commerce, in settling these matters and trying to give the computer industry a chance to fix the problem and to get our industries' computer systems working. 
   I am really concerned about the vote tomorrow. It is a critical vote for the American economy. Those who fail to realize that could damage our country. 
   The vote will be coming up in the morning and everybody should be aware of it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on behalf of the majority leader, I ask unanimous consent that the committees have until 6 p.m. to file any reported legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today it stand in recess until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, May 18. I further ask unanimous consent that on Tuesday immediately following the prayer the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then resume debate on the motion to proceed to S. 96, the Y2K bill with the time until 9:45 equally divided. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I further ask unanimous consent that if the cloture is not invoked, the Senate then proceed to morning business for 60 minutes under the control of Senator HELMS for a special order in memory of Adm. Bud Nance, for his dedication to the Senate and to our country. And I ask that following that time, the Senate return to the debate on the motion to proceed to S. 96. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess from the hours of 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for the weekly policy conferences to meet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will resume debate on the motion to proceed to the Y2K bill at 9:30 a.m. with the vote on invoking cloture occurring at 9:45 a.m. Following the special order, it is the intention of the leader to return to debate on the motion to proceed to S. 96. However, attempts may be made to come to a final agreement on the juvenile justice bill so that the Senate can complete action on that bill in a reasonable timeframe. Therefore, rollcall votes can be expected during tomorrow's session of the Senate. As always, Members will be notified accordingly as any votes are ordered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 5:46 p.m., recessed until Tuesday, May 18, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, will the majority leader yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I just want to say to the majority leader how much I appreciate his leadership, and that of Senator HATCH. One reason we ought not to have so many amendments is that Senator HATCH, in managing this bill, has worked to accomplish and accommodate as many amendments as there could possibly be. I am just concerned that we don't have a final time agreement. I think that reflects and suggests there are some in this body who do not want a bill passed. I think it would not be helpful. We need to pass  this legislation. And we have accommodated greatly those who have differing views. I think it is a good bill, and it will be a tragedy if we do not complete it. I know you have to have at some point a time limit or we cannot continue with it. I hope the Members of the other party will agree to a time limit. 
   Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. 
   Mr. President, I am intrigued by the Hollings amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I will. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this fits along with the general view of mine. We are both lawyers, and Senator HOLLINGS is a better lawyer than I, but I think we have made television prime time movies too much a matter of first amendment freedoms, and not enough of a matter of common sense. To say that you have to meet certain standards during certain hours of the day when our children may be impacted by that does not, in a significant way, prohibit a person from exercising what we generally understood to be free speech when we founded this country. Speech was generally understood, at the most fundamental level, as a communication about ideas and issues, and that you would be able to articulate and defend and promote your issues. It did not mean--and I don't think the Founding Fathers contemplated--that every form of video of vicious murder or sexual relations or obscenity could be published in print and in our homes. 
   In fact, we have laws all over America that flatly prohibit certain degrees of obscenity. Indecency cannot be prohibited, but things that are determined as a matter of law to be obscene are flatly prohibited anywhere in America. So, therefore, they say that on the public airwaves, which we license people to use, they have to be committed to the public service. They have to give so many hours of public service advertisements, and we monitor the stations to make sure that they do so. To say there is no Government agency that can say certain things can't be shown during limited periods of time, to me, is strange law. I don't think it is quite right. 
   In addition, I know a lot of people who have spoken on the floor here today--and over the last several days, are worried. Also, the President has spoken about his concern that in the afterschool hours children are not supervised. Many children have parents who work swing shifts or parents who have to be out in the yard or doing other things while they are inside watching TV, and they may not have a V-chip yet. Do we have no responsibility to those children? Is it sufficient to just say it is their parents' fault? 
   Some say if you are a parent, you can control whatever your children watch. Those of us who are parents know that is not precisely accurate. We can work at it hard, and if you are a parent who is home most of the time, you can do a fairly good job. But even then a determined young person can pretty well watch what they want. The point is, the showing of any one violent scene is not going to cause a normal child to become a murderer. The point is, what happens if every night kids who maybe are not healthy are seeing on their television images of violence--and in years gone by, they have gotten more graphic--and at the same time they get in their car and they play an audio or CD of Marilyn Manson, who has extremely violent lyrics, or they turn on the computer and play computer games. I was looking at one and the pointer was a chopped-off hand with blood dripping off it. That is humorous to some degree, but where you have it constantly, it is a problem. 
   First of all, in my wrestling with the Hollings amendment, is it appropriate for the Government to do so? The FCC does all kinds of other limitations on programming. Is it appropriate for them to analyze the content for violence? I have had my staff do some research of the law on it. 
   First of all, my general opinion is that the current state of the law is too restrictive on the ability of the Government to contain what is shown in the homes of America. I think it is too restrictive. I don't think the Constitution does that. But the current state of the law, I believe, is too restrictive, and these are some of the things I have discovered. 
   Under the Hollings amendment, we would perhaps be considered to be pushing the envelope a little bit. But I am not sure that we would because it would prohibit distribution of violent video programming during hours when children are reasonably likely to comprise a substantial portion of the audience. It would require 
   the FCC to reach a definition of what violent programming is and determine the timeframe for it. It would permit the FCC to exempt news and sports programming, and it would have penalties for those who violate that. 
   The closest law we can find on point is on the FCC's regulation of indecent programming, which has survived challenge in the courts. Obscene material is the kind of material that is illegal, where the Supreme Court has stated that this material can be so obscene and so lacking in any merit, that communities in the country can ban it from being distributed in their communities. Indecent material is the kind of material that is less than obscene. So what do we do about indecent material? The FCC defines indecent material--and I am paraphrasing--as this: Patently offensive descriptions based on local community standards of sexual and excretory functions or organs. 
   Government regulation of indecent material is possible, but it has to survive a standard of strict scrutiny. The courts are going to look at it very strictly to make sure the first amendment is not being undermined. 
   In Action for Children's Television v. FCC, a 1995 case decided in the District of Columbia, the DC court of appeals--which is one step from the U.S. Supreme Court--upheld the FCC safe harbor regulation of indecent material, provided the regulation was the least restrictive means to achieve the Government's compelling interest in protecting young people from indecent programming. 
   It didn't deal with violence. The original ban on indecent programming between 6 a.m. and midnight contained an exception for public programmers to broadcast indecent material between 10 p.m. and midnight. 
   A lot of public broadcasters quit at midnight. So the law is a compromise that if you are a public programmer, you can show this material at 10 o'clock and you don't have to wait until midnight like everybody else. 
   The court found that this exception was not narrowly drawn--not the most narrowly drawn restriction and mandated that you have this kind of law and everybody has the 10 o'clock rule. Some of them can't have 10 and some have midnight. But it upheld it. The Supreme Court upheld that restriction and that rule by the FCC. It was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, the final arbiter. They affirmed the ruling without opinion. They did not hear the case, but they did not overrule, and they allowed to stand the opinion of the district court. 
   So I think the difference we have here is that we are dealing with violence as opposed to what may be defined under the law as indecent. 
   I think we are raising a very good point. I am seriously considering this amendment. I understand those who have concerns about it. My basic inclination is to say that we ought to care about children. We know for a fact that many children are at home and unsupervised. We have a responsibility and it is not in violation of the first amendment to deal with this and have some restrictions on it. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, as chairman of the Youth Violence Subcommittee, I very much appreciate Senator ASHCROFT's leadership on this particular issue. But not just this one, on the entire package of legislation we have put together today. He has conducted hearings in Missouri, which I was pleased to be able to attend. We heard from victims of crime. We heard from police officers. We heard from young people. We went out and met with law enforcement officers who were breaking up drug labs. In the course of that, one of the things we dealt with was adult criminals using young people to commit crimes for them. Senator ASHCROFT has prepared that part of our bill in particular, which I think is invaluable, because young people do get treated less severely, and older adults are using them to commit crimes. 
   Zeroing in on some weapons that young people do not need to be able to receive in any fashion is good legislation. As chairman of that subcommittee, I appreciate Senator ASHCROFT, former attorney general of the State of Missouri, former Governor of the State, for his leadership throughout this process. I have enjoyed working with him and look forward to continuing to do so as we move this bill through to success. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Ten minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who is managing this bill. 
   Mr. President, I want to say how much I have admired his skill, ability, and knowledge in moving this important juvenile crime package forward. It makes positive steps in every area that deals with juvenile crime and violence. 
   We were shocked and saddened by the events in Colorado. It caused us all to rethink and rededicate ourselves to making improvements. We have been working for 2 years to try to get this bill up for a final vote. Maybe now we can have that become a reality. 
   I hope we can continue to debate the issues and debate the amendments and vote. I just hope we don't have a group of Members who, for one reason or another, would rather not see a bill pass. If that is so, I think some people need to be held accountable for that. I am willing to debate and hear the amendments, vote on them, and put my record on the line and do what we can to pass this legislation. Without any doubt, there is a major step forward in putting additional regulations on gun shows, which has been discussed here today. We have several other amendments and provisions in this bill that crack down on the illegal use of guns, including substantially increasing penalties for a lot of different gun violations. 
   Mr. President, I had the occasion to be a Federal prosecutor for 12 years, a U.S. attorney. I served, before that, as an assistant U.S. attorney. I also was attorney general of Alabama. What I have been hearing in the last few weeks about what we need to do about law enforcement and what is wrong in this country really frustrates me. The President of the United States, after this tremendous tragedy in Colorado, proposes that we need to do something about it. As I recall, his basic solutions were that we need a juvenile Brady bill, which was already in our juvenile crime bill pending at that time. He said we need to step up liability for parents whose children go out and commit  crimes, which is a very difficult thing to do if you adhere to the traditional rules of American and English criminal law: you have to have criminal intent to be guilty of a crime. We have never made people guilty of crimes unless they had reason to be responsible criminally for somebody else's crime. Maybe we can make progress and the States will make progress, but there is not a lot you can do there. The President proposed a couple of other matters that dealt with guns, and they are minor, not a realistic way to deal with what is happening with crime in America. 
   I want to say that I have, from my experience, noted a real shortcoming in President Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno's Department of Justice. 
   They have not prosecuted the laws effectively. They simply have not done so. 
   In 1992, before President Clinton took office, President Bush had a program called Project Triggerlock. It enhanced, increased, and intensified the prosecution of criminals who use guns illegally, felons who possess firearms, people who carry firearms in the commission of a drug offense, or other criminal activity, people who traffic in stolen guns, people who have sawed-off shotguns and fully automatic weapons. They were prosecuted intensely. 
   In 1992, there were 7,048 cases of prosecutions under those laws that existed at that time. 
   I direct your attention to this chart. It is the Executive Office of U.S. Attorneys' statistical data, which the Department of Justice lives by, which shows the number of prosecutions that have been going on in this country. In 1992, there were 7,048. 
   I know that number, because I had a trigger lock prosecution team in my office. I was directed by the President and the Attorney General to do that. I was delighted to comply. 
   I sent out a newsletter to share it with the chiefs of police. It was dedicated solely to laws and information on how to be more productive in prosecuting these criminals who are using guns and killing people, because I knew then and I know today that can save lives. 
   Since this administration has been in office, look what has happened with those numbers. They have gone down now to 3,807, a 40-percent decline in prosecutions. That is a dramatic number. 
   It really offends me. I consider it astounding that the President of the United States and the Attorney General of the United States would go around and say, ``Oh, we are the toughest people in America about guns; we want to do more about guns, and if you Republicans in Congress won't pass every law that we can think of to make some other event criminal.'' They do not care about prosecuting criminals. I have a record of it. 
   In my tenure, we increased dramatically the number of gun prosecutions. I don't take a backseat to anyone over my commitment to prosecute people who use guns. 
   This administration wants to prosecute innocent people with guns, people who have no criminal motive whatsoever, while they are allowing the serious cases to erode dramatically. 
   They have more prosecutors today than they had in 1992, and they have a 40-percent reduction. It is just an offensive thing to me. 
   I will also pull these charts, because I know how to read the U.S. attorney's manual. I did it for 12 years. They had to have several new laws, and some of them are pretty good. I am supportive of them. These are going to fight crime, they said. 
   Look at this chart. This is shocking. 
   Here is one: 
   ``Possession of firearms on school grounds''--922(q). 
   There are a lot of subparts: 922(c), for carrying a firearm in the commission of a crime by a felon carries 5 years without parole, if you are convicted of that. 
   This is 922(q): ``Possession of a firearm on school grounds.'' 
   It was reported, I believe, that the First Lady at this press conference, when they wailed about gun laws and gun shows, said there were 6,000 incidents last year of firearms on school grounds. 
   That is what they said. 
   In 1997, this Department of Justice--and every U.S. attorney in America is appointed by the President of the United States--prosecuted five cases. In 1998, eight. That is nationwide. That is for the whole country. 
   How is that stopping crime and making our communities safer? That is what I am saying. Is that making us safer? 
   ``Unlawful transfer of firearms to juveniles''--that is a pretty good law--922(x)(1). That law passed and closed a little 
   problem there, a loophole. It was closed several years ago. 
   ``Unlawful transfer of firearms to juveniles.'' In 1997, this Department of Justice, which makes guns its priority, only prosecuted five cases; in 1998, six. 
   Look at this one: ``Possession or transfer of a semiautomatic weapon''--that is the assault weapon ban that was allowed. There have been a lot of disputes about it, and a lot of debate about it, because it is really a semiautomatic weapon, but it looks bad. So they banned it. 
   In 1997, there were 34 prosecutions; and, in 1989, 84. 
   I think that begins to make a point. 
   We don't need to be dealing in symbolism or politics. There is a Second Amendment right to bear arms. It is in my Constitution. I don't know. Somebody else may read in certain amendments they like and certain ones that they don't. But it is in the Constitution. And it gives the people the right to keep and bear arms. That is not going to be given away. 
   We passed a lot of rules that are considered to be reasonable restraints on that. I prosecuted gun dealers for violation of regulations. So we expect them to adhere to the regulations we passed. 
   But I will just say with regard to these cases that what we are suggesting: what we are hearing today, or in the last day or so, is an attempt to distract attention from the merits of a good, sound, tough, compassionate juvenile justice bill, and derail it on the basis of whether or not we have a sufficient bureaucracy at a gun show, where I will assure you that probably not more than 1 out of 1,000 guns in America are bought at gun shows, as if that is going to save crime. It is not going to save crime anymore than this law did, or this law did, or that law did. 
   Next year, we will probably come in here and they will have a half dozen prosecutions under that law, and they want to have that kind of thing. 
   What we need to do is go back to a serious prosecution, back to the seven, or maybe 10,000 prosecutions under the gun laws that are already in existence, and focus on them. 
   I would just share this story with you because I think it is revealing. 
   I have been raising this very issue with this very chart for over a year--this chart which I have been holding up for the Attorney General, the Chief of the Criminal Division, and the Associate Attorney General of the U.S. Department of Justice, and I have been asking why they are not doing their job. They don't have a very good answer, if you want to read the transcript. 
   What has happened? Early this year we held a hearing. We set it for Monday, March 22, just a few months ago. It had been set for some time. We had asked the administration to come and testify, because we were going to ask them about this failure, this collapse, in Federal efforts on prosecutions. 
   We had heard that U.S. attorney Helen Fahey, down in Richmond, was doing a triggerlock-type program, and being very successful. The chief of police in Richmond was just delighted. They had a 41-percent reduction in murder and a 21-percent reduction in violent crime. We wanted to highlight this. 
   So we had a hearing. It made the administration nervous. We said: We are going to ask you about these numbers. We are going to ask you why you quit President Bush's Project Triggerlock, and why aren't you replicating and repeating what you are doing successfully down in Richmond? 
   That was going to be on a Monday. 
   On Saturday, March 20, the President of the United States--I guess the word got up to them that they had a little problem. 
   So he had a radio address to the Nation. He focused it on gun prosecutions. He had the United States attorney Helen Fahey in his office, and the chief of police in his office. She was going to testify on Monday. And he talked about the very thing we talked about. 
   I thought: Wasn't that interesting. Maybe we have finally gotten through to somebody.  
   This is what he said:  
   Today I am directing Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and Attorney General Janet Reno to use every available tool to increase the prosecution of gun criminals and shut down illegal gun markets. I am asking them to work closely with local, State, and Federal law enforcement officials, and to report back to me with a plan to reduce gun violence by applying proven local strategies to fight gun crime nationwide. My balanced budget----  
   He always says that--``my balanced budget.'' 
   What that has to do with this, I don't know. 
   My balanced budget will help to hire more Federal prosecutors and ATF agents so we can crack down on even more gun criminals and illegal gun trafficking all across America.  
   That was his radio address. 
   On Monday, U.S. Attorney Helen Fahey testified that  
   Project Exile [what they called the project in Richmond] is essentially triggerlock with steroids.  
   They basically took the Project Triggerlock activities and enhanced it.  
   Plus community involvement and advertising ..... Project Exile is simple and straightforward in its execution and requires relatively limited prosecution and law enforcement resources. The program's focus and message is clear, concise and easily understood, and most importantly, unequivocal. The message: An illegal gun gets you 5 years in Federal prison.  
   That was President Clinton's U.S. attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia. 
   On May 5 we had oversight hearings with the Department of Justice in the Judiciary Committee. I asked Attorney General Reno if she had gotten this directive, and what she was doing about it. She indicated:  
   The prosecution by Federal Government of small gun cases that can be better handled by the State court ..... doesn't make such good sense.  
   I cross-examined her a good bit about that because it was stunning to me. I said: Did you get a directive from the President? Did he send it to you in writing or did he call you on the phone or were you supposed to listen to the radio? How did you get this message? Are you going to do it? 
   She steadfastly refused to make a commitment to replicate and reproduce the Project Exile in Richmond, VA, and to use that around the country--even though her own people are telling her of the 41-percent reduction in the murder rate and a 20-percent reduction overall of violent crime. 
   This bill provides money for that. We have a proposal to increase substantially, perhaps as much as $10 million or $50 million to the Justice Department to replicate this project. We are going to insist on it. We believe it will save lives. 
   The chart shows from 7,000 to 3,000 prosecutions, a 40-percent reduction. There are those who talk about caring about innocent victims of crime and doing something about crime. There are innocent people in America who have died because those cases weren't prosecuted, those criminals using guns were not prosecuted. They have gone on and killed other people. It is a shame and a tragedy. 
   I believe what we have to do first and foremost is to create a climate and a mentality in this Department of Justice that they are going to use the laws they have been given and not to excuse themselves by discussing some new law that they have little or no intent on prosecuting effectively. 
   That is the true fact of the matter. We are talking about thousands of cases. 
   My view is if it is a good law and it is not unconstitutional and it is not too burdensome and we can figure a way to make it work, I am all supportive of it. I voted for and support several. 
   The real problem is cracking down on the criminals who are using guns. The laws already on the books are the ones that are going to be used 99 percent of the time when those cases are prosecuted. If used effectively, we can remove dangerous criminals from our streets, reduce violent crime and murder, and save the lives of innocent people. 
   I thank Chairman HATCH for all the work he has done, the leadership he has given, and the patience he as demonstrated in moving this legislation forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Please. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the distinguished chairman of our Judiciary Committee, Senator HATCH. He is right on point. 
   I have a similar chart here. There has been $4.4 billion spent on juvenile prevention programs, 117 separate juvenile programs. We have had no money for law enforcement, make no mistake. The point I really want to make is, when you spend money strengthening our juvenile justice system, giving juvenile judges alternatives and possibilities to intervene effectively through the appropriate discipline when young people go wrong, that is prevention--that is prevention. 
   Fox Butterfield in the New York Times had a front page article about Chicago's juvenile court system. They spend 5 minutes per case. It is just a revolving door. We need to strengthen the ability of juvenile judges to intervene effectively when kids first start getting into trouble, because if you have a limited amount of money for prevention, you should apply it where it works best, for those people who are already beginning to get into trouble. 
   Let me show you a Department of Justice study done recently by a professor at the University of Maryland on behalf of Attorney General Reno.  
   The chart says, ``The findings of the Department of Justice Prevention Evaluation Report.'' What did they find? Most crime prevention funds are being spent where they are needed least. That is a condemnation of us in Congress and the Department of Justice. Most prevention money is being spent where it is needed least. That is President Clinton's own Department of Justice. 
   Most crime prevention programs have never been evaluated. We have 117 of them. They have 4-H Clubs in inner cities that are supposed to keep people from committing crime. I do not know if that works or not. I used to be in a 4-H Club, but I do not know whether that is a good idea. There are 117 of these programs. 
   Among the evaluated programs, some of the least effective receive the most money. We want to just do more, more, more. 
   We have worked for over 2 years on this legislation. We have given it a lot of attention. Chairman HATCH has given it his personal attention. We have now worked with Senator BIDEN and have his support. In the committee, the bill came out with bipartisan support last year. It has bipartisan support. 
   Here we have an amendment of 100 or more pages, submitted by the distinguished Senator from Vermont. I know that as a former prosecutor he cares about these issues, but we get it this morning--I think my office got this morning probably the only two copies in existence. He wants to spend, what, $3.8 billion--just $3.8 billion. We have not even had time to read the amendment. 
   There are a couple of things that are important to me. There is no money dedicated for law enforcement. I tell you, the people think juvenile judges do not care about kids. The Juvenile Judges Association is supporting this effort because the money is coming in a way that requires a committee, a coordinated committee in a community. Our vision is that the community would come together--the judge, the prosecutor, the sheriff, the probation officers, civic leaders--and prepare a 
   plan to deal with young people who are getting into trouble. 
   Everyone needs to be drug tested upon arrest. If you do not care about the kids, you will not drug test them. If you love them and care about them, you will find out if part of their criminality is being driven by drug use; and if so, then you need to have treatment and continued monitoring of them if they are let go. 
   Parents need to know if the reason their children got involved in theft was because they were strung out on drugs. That is an important thing. That is how you intervene effectively. The power of a court gives credibility to the process that no other drug treatment center or mental health center can give because a judge can order things to happen. You talk to your prevention people, the drug treatment people, the mental health people. They like the order of a judge requiring these things to happen. 
   So I believe that a good criminal justice system is prevention. And what they comment on is a ``lock them up'' mentality. This is what our accountability block grant provides: drug testing of juveniles upon arrest; and it provides the money for State and local people to do that, and the renovation or expansion of detention facilities. 
   The truth is, we have quadrupled the amount of bed space for adults coming in and have driven down adult crime dramatically because we focused significantly on repeat, dangerous adult offenders. But we have spent very little money at the same time that juvenile crime has been increasing dramatically. 
   That is why, as frugal as I am about government money, I think it is appropriate for us as a nation to rise up and address the shortcomings in juvenile court systems in America and try to give them some strength. You have to have some detention. 
   People across the aisle have a little mantra. They are saying: Well, we want to really lock up these tough kids. But when you have three times as many people committing murder as a juvenile, three times as many committing assault with intent to murder, and rapes, and that kind of thing in the last 15 years, then we have to have more capacity, don't we? 
   What are judges doing with a second-time burglar when the only bed space in the State juvenile center is filled with a youngster charged with murder? Where are they going to put these kids? That is what they are telling me. 
   Police officers say: Well, police officers want prevention. Look, I was a prosecutor. I had been a prosecutor for nearly 17 years. Many of my best friends are police officers. You ask them: Don't you wish we could prevent crime? 
   Oh, yes, they answer, I wish I could prevent crime. I am tired of arresting these kids. 
   They will always say that. But you ask them about what they know, you ask them how the juvenile justice system is working, and they will tell you it is in a state of collapse. They have told me over and over again: 
   Jeff, these kids are laughing at us. We can't do anything to them, and they know it. We arrest them, and they are released within hours of their arrest. Nothing happens to them, time after time. 
   This isn't a first-time offense. People act as if you are going to take some youngster---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. People act as if first-time young offenders are getting sent off for long periods of time. That is not so. It is just not so. Ask people who know about the system. 
   What we need, though, is for that seriously disturbed youngster who is heading down the wrong road to get to a juvenile court system where the judge can look them in the eye with toughness, concern, and tough love, and be able to discipline them, to set forth a program that fits their needs, whether it is mental health, drug treatment, family counseling, or prison. 
   We do not have that in America, because we don't have any money spent for that. We need to do it, and this bill will do so. 
   I thank the chairman for his time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-5-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-6-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, what is the status of the time agreement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-7-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to speak briefly in favor of the Brownback-Hatch amendment. 
   I believe it is a good, realistic first step, because what it deals with is a voluntary step that would allow us to conduct a search and allow voluntary actions by the movie and entertainment industry to confront a problem many of us believe is affecting the culture of violence in America. 
   All of us know that it is not a bomb or a knife that has the intent to kill. The intent to kill comes from the person who wields that weapon. There must be ``malicious intent'' under the law to constitute a criminal act. 
   We believe, and I think most Members of this body believe, that something is awry, that somehow, some way we are allowing a plethora, a host, a bombardment of unhealthy messages to reach our children and that some of them are seriously affected thereby. 
   I, for one, think that the reason we have had more than one of these mass shootings at schools is because a very, very small number of young people in America have found themselves able to immerse into a nihilistic, depressive, death-oriented, violent-oriented lifestyle. It surrounds them. If they are in an automobile, there is violent, depressive music on the radio. If they go to the movies, there are violent movies they can watch. They not only can see them in the theater, but they can rent the movies and play them time and time again, as some of these young people apparently have. These very dangerous movies are filled with anger and violence. 
   There are such things more and more happening on television today. And a young person can get on the Internet and play very intense life-and-death games in which youths are out to kill before they are killed. It is an intense experience for many young people. 
   There are chat rooms on the Internet. You can get on the Internet and find somebody who can feed your negative thoughts, who believes that Adolf Hitler is worthy of respect. You can find somebody on the Internet who would agree with that and affirm this unhealthy view of life. 
   I think we are seeing that kind of thing, and maybe that is a factor in what is happening in America. 
   I would say there is no better champion than Senator BROWNBACK, and I am so proud of the Senator from Kansas for raising this issue so articulately and so persuasively. I think this is just the beginning. I think we are called upon as leaders in the American Government to think seriously about what we are doing and how it affects our culture. 
   One of the great Greek philosophers--Plato, I believe--said, ``The purpose of education is to make people good.'' 
   We think the purpose of education is to transmit technical knowledge and job skills, and that no teacher should even be empowered to suggest what is good and what is bad, to choose light rather than darkness, to choose life rather than death. Are we not capable of affirming those basic principles in our public life in America? I think we can. 
   I think this is a bizarre and abnormal theory we have developed about the proper role of government with regard to matters of arousing religion and faith in this country. The Constitution deals only briefly with the right to express religious opinions. For example, I would like to make this point. It is the only reference in our Constitution about religion. The First Amendment says Congress ``shall make no law respecting the 
   establishment of a religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'' 
   People say, what about this ``wall of separation'' between church and state? Thomas Jefferson wrote a letter in which he made reference to a ``wall of separation'' between church and state. This was later. Those who ratified the Constitution never ratified that. We don't even know what he meant by that, it was a private letter, not a formal opinion. That is not part of the Constitution. It has never been approved by the American people, adopted by we, the people of the United States of America, when they ratified the Constitution or voted on in Philadelphia by the people who were there. What they voted on was that Congress, the United States Congress, ``shall make no law respecting the establishment of a religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'' 
   The President, sitting in the Chair--I happen to have done that a number of times in just over 2 years in this body. When you look out across the wall, you see in words 6 inches high, or higher, right up there over the door of this august room, it says ``in God We Trust.'' 
   If you go in the anteroom over here, in the President's Room, there is a figure holding a Bible in her arm. It is painted on the ceiling. How long it has been on there I don't know, but for many, many years. There is another one with a cross. There are four words on the four corners of the wall. I think one of them is ``philosophy.'' One of them is ``government.'' And one of them is ``religion.'' We made reference in our founding documents to divine providence, to our creator. 
   So I believe we have established an extraordinarily bizarre understanding in recent years of what the meaning and the proper understanding of the  separation between church and state is. I believe that this Congress was prohibited by the American people and the Founding Fathers from establishing an official religion. I do not believe there is anything that any scholar can say that the Constitution is prohibiting acknowledgment of a higher being. In fact, we have done that throughout the history of this country. 
   My personal view is that this legalistic approach has intimidated teachers and made them less willing to provide moral guidance and affirmation of religious impulses of their students. They feel that it is somehow illegal for them even to do so. 
   I do not believe that is true. I think threats of lawsuits have intimidated natural free speech. The Constitution says Congress shall not prohibit the free expression of religion. 
   I think we ought to have a more natural approach. I think any teacher, or any government official, ought to be sensitive not to use any position of authority they may have to impose their own personal theology or philosophy or political views on people who are in a captive audience. That is normal, natural decency. 
   Where I grew up, I was taught to respect people's religion. If they disagreed with me, that was their prerogative. In this country, you are allowed to have and adhere to deep religious beliefs. If a religious faith called on students to pause at a certain time during the day to have a prayer and it is part of their doctrine and they believe deeply in this, why would we not allow that to happen? I was taught you tried to accommodate people's religious beliefs--not to get into debate and argument with them--because we respected people who had something more important than who made the highest test score. 
   Griffin Bell, former Federal judge, and former Attorney General of the United States for President Carter once made a speech. It was suggested he might be critical of President Reagan--he was appointing judges and he said President Reagan had a litmus test for judges. Judge Bell was asked what he thought about this litmus test. He shocked the State bar association meeting members by walking to the microphone and saying, ``I don't know, maybe we ought to have a litmus test--nobody ought to be on the Federal bench who doesn't believe in a prayer at a football game.'' 
   I wonder about that. Why do we think you can't even have a voluntary moment so those people who choose to do so might bow for one moment at the football game to affirm that there is something more important in life than who is the biggest, strongest and who has the most points? How does this undermine our freedom as Americans? If you don't want to bow your head, you don't have to; if you think it is superstitious--free country. If you respect other people's religion and if this is important to them, you will benignly allow them to carry on with their beliefs. 
   I think we have gone way too far. I think it has affected the ability of the American leadership to assert certain cultural beliefs and values, and if we don't do that, we are suggesting directly and indirectly to our children that there are no permanent values, there are no values worth dying for. 
   One reporter, referring to a prominent American, said there is not one single belief he would adhere to if he thinks it is against his political interest to do so. I hope we haven't reached that point. I hope there are still things that people are willing to stand for, pay a price for--yes, die for. 
   That ought to be transmitted to our children. There are a multitude of ways that can be done. Even our televisions, our newspapers, and our radios affirmed those basic values consistently in the 1950s, for example. It was affirmed at our schools. It was affirmed in our families. It was affirmed in our churches. 
   Now we have begun to lose our moral compass. How we deal with it, I don't know. The Senator from Kansas, Senator BROWNBACK, has said he doesn't really know the answers but he is raising those questions. He is calling on us as a nation to analyze what is happening, to recognize that a culture that affirms life, a culture that affirms light, is better than a culture that affirms death and darkness. Honesty is better than dishonesty; kindness is better than meanness. There is right and there is wrong. We ought to adhere to the right even when, in the short-term, it is not helpful to us. Somehow we have to deal with this. 
   These amendments are a step. We believe it is constitutional, appropriate, and fair. 
   We believe we should analyze in one little area what is happening, to create some studies about the market, a National Institutes of Health study of violent entertainment and the impacts it may have. 
   Just this week I happened to be passing a television set tuned to the Maury Povich show. A mother was expressing her concern about her daughter who was off stage. And they would flip back and forth. The mother said she is doing a lot of dangerous things, even saying she killed somebody. The daughter, off stage, hearing this was still smiling. The daughter even acknowledged throwing 
   her own school principal on the floor. 
   That is so bizarre. Some say television won't affect anybody. Well, maybe it won't one time. But what happens when you see this every afternoon after school? When certain children who are unhealthy receive these messages, can it distort their view of life? Make them less positive, more negative? Less peaceful, more violent? Less committed to honoring rules and civility and decency and order? I suspect that it does and can and it is not going away. 
   We have a great economy; things are doing well. We are benefiting from some of the greatest technological achievements in the history of the world. I hope they will continue. It is making life better for us. However, if we have a danger, it will be that we as a nation will lose our way, lose our direction, lose our discipline, our commitment to order and peacefulness and cooperation. If we lose that, then improvements in technology that made our life so much better may not be able to carry us much further. 
   When talking about how much money we spend on education, what good does it do to have a $500 textbook if the child won't read that book and he has no motivation, no commitment to improve himself or herself or the parents are not supportive? You have a state of the art classroom with the finest technology and students are not interested. You talk to teachers and they will say a lot of children in their classrooms are just not interested, they have no thought for what they are going to make of their lives in the future. 
   I don't know all of the answers. I know this juvenile violence bill does not answer all of them. I know this: In America today, if we have criminal activity by young people, this society has to take that seriously. Even Doctor Laura tells us that. Everybody knows that. A football coach knew that. If you are in the Army and you get out of step, they get you back in line. There is punishment; there are expectations of people that we insist on. That is how you have good Army units, good football teams, good classrooms, and good nations. 
   I am concerned with those issues. I think they are fundamental. I feel a burden to think more about it, to pray more about it, and try to be able to contribute effectively to it. 
   We do need to make sure we are doing fundamental things well. One of them is to have a court system that works well. When a young child is arrested for a serious crime, he should be confronted by a judge and a probation officer and something should be done that is appropriate to that crime. 
   You do not love children and you do not care for them if you blindly allow them to get away with serious wrongdoing. We are failing them when we do that. It is the concept of tough love. If you love children, you cannot have them break into a house and steal something and be caught and allow nothing to happen to them. That is happening in America today. You talk to your police officers, they are having to make these arrests. They tell me: JEFF, these kids are laughing at us. We can't do anything to them and they know it. 
   Victims often are not even allowed to go into the juvenile centers and know what is going on. Their records are not maintained. Judges have no alternatives for punishment or mental health treatment or counseling or drug testing and drug treatment.  
   We want to improve this system to focus on those young people who are going astray, to intervene in their lives and, hopefully, create a better America. It is just a small step. But we have an absolute obligation to make sure the moneys we expend are spent wisely and that they affirm the needs of our civilization; that is, the need for order, abiding by the law, peacefulness, and not violence. 
   Mr. President, I thank Senator HATCH and Senator BROWNBACK for their support of this amendment. It is a good step in the right direction. We are going to have to do more of that as the years go by. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-8-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for his leadership on this. I say to the Senator from Massachusetts, the Boston project has been a very successful project and contrary to his understanding of our legislation, it does model itself after the key successes of the Boston project. I have had members of my staff visit Boston. The number of murders and decline in crime have been remarkable. It is driven, if you talk to the people there, by a coordinated effort by the entire community, really led by the judiciary, the courts, the police and the probation officers. 
   When judges give a young person probation in Boston, if he is a member of a gang and he is supposed to be in at 7 o'clock at night, a probation officer, along with a uniformed policeman, will go out at night, knock on the door and make sure he or she is home. This is not being done anyplace else in America. 
   They are taking these young people seriously. They are following up. Judges and parole officers in Boston have the capacity to discipline them through detention facilities and other forms of discipline if they violate their probation, which most juvenile judges do not. 
   The whole purpose, what we are doing here, is to try to empower other court systems in America to do the same type of innovative research. In fact, our bill, on page 230, requires this coordinated local effort, which was the key to Boston and several other cities which are making progress in juvenile crime. 
   This requires, prior to receiving a grant under this section, that  
   ..... a unit of local government shall certify that it has or will establish a coordinated enforcement plan--  
   That is what they have in Boston.  
   for reducing juvenile crime within the jurisdiction of the unit of local government developed by a juvenile crime enforcement coalition, such coalition consisting of individuals within the jurisdiction representing police, sheriff, the prosecutor, State or local probation services, juvenile court, schools, business, and religious affiliated, fraternal, nonprofit and social service organizations involved in crime prevention.  
   So I say to the Senator from Massachusetts, this is what we are doing here. The key to the success of the Boston project, in my opinion, is a coordinated effort among Federal, State and local agencies under the jurisdiction of the court and probation officer, who actually monitors young people who started to be involved in violations of the law, with an intense interest, an intense interest borne out of love and concern, to insist that they stop their bad activities and, in fact, return to the rule of law. 
   If we do that effectively, I do believe we have the capacity to reduce crime in America. 
   I yield the remainder of my time to Chairman HATCH. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-9-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-10-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator from South Carolina for raising a number of important issues concerning the quality of TV programming and other programming. 
   I remember very distinctly a number of years ago I was watching when the Pope came to California and in Hollywood met with top executives. He met with them, encouraged them, and urged them to do a better job, and to start to clean up some of the things being shown on television. 
   When the program was over, they came out to the TV cameras. They interviewed each one of these executives and asked what happened, and what they thought. They said the Pope had made a number of very important suggestions that deserved great consideration and they thought they could make some progress toward his goals. 
   Charlton Heston came out. They asked: Mr. Heston, what do you think? Mr. Heston, do you think things will get better? Mr. Heston said: If the Lord himself were speaking to them, they wouldn't change. The only thing they are looking at is the rating. 
   Since then, things have continued to get worse. I have always remembered that. I think it is fair to say that violence apparently pays. They are looking for ratings and money. It does leave us with a difficult question of what we can do to make this a healthier society, a society that is better for raising children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that S. 28 be discharged from the Energy Committee and referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent S. 785 be discharged from the Committee on Armed Services and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 107, H.R. 669. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent the bill be read a third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and any statements related to the measure appear in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 9:30 a.m., Thursday, May 13. I further ask consent that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the routine requests through the morning hour be granted, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and that the Senate immediately resume consideration of the juvenile justice crime bill, S. 254. I further ask consent that at 9:30 a.m. there be 6 minutes of debate on the Hatch-Leahy amendment, equally divided in the usual form, with no amendments to the amendment in order prior to a vote at 9:40 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene on Thursday at 9:30 a.m. and immediately resume consideration of the Hatch-Leahy amendment, with a vote to take place at 9:40 a.m. Following that vote, the Senate will resume consideration of the Hollings amendment on TV violence for the remaining 2 hours of debate. Senators can therefore expect votes throughout the morning session of the Senate, with the first vote occurring tomorrow morning at 9:40. 
   I further ask that immediately following the 9:40 a.m. vote, Senator BRYAN be recognized for up to 12 minutes for a morning business statement.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order at the conclusion of the remarks of Senator DORGAN, which he will commence at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if I could, before he begins his remarks, I ask unanimous consent that Kristi Lee, my staff member for the Judiciary Committee, be granted the privilege of the floor through the consideration of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, it is wonderful that the Senator has done that. I feel as if we are two trains passing in the night on this bill. I hope the Senator will understand something that is extremely, extremely important: that the juvenile accountability block grant--which has been referred to as nothing but a ``lock them up'' program and that what we need is prevention money--is to encourage just the kind of situation the Senator is talking about because had those children just been released again, and not been sent to a well-run, well-organized drug treatment school, detention facility, in which they were removed from their community, they probably would be on the streets now, maybe committing a more serious crime or a victim themselves of a serious crime. 
   So I think there is a false contrast between what is prevention and what is not. I would say that a child who is already running into trouble with the law--as these children are--has to be confronted. There has to be an effective intervention in a life going wrong. And these kinds of facilities are going on around the country. 
   I visited one in Illinois. Judge Grossman gave us a tour. The county and the State, and some Federal moneys, have helped create a panoply of options when a young person comes before him for sentencing. He has a number of options. Instead of the juvenile going to where there are a few bed spaces in the State pen or released with nothing, the judge has a series of things right there in the community he can do. The accountability block grant, with graduated sanctions, provides that opportunity. 
   So I would hope the Senator, as he studies this, would realize that the prevention money that we put in would not go to support that, but the block grant accountability money would support the judiciary as it seeks to intervene. Sometimes you have to be  tough--some of these kids have really been on a bad road a long time--to intervene effectively. 
   Thank you for taking the time to personally visit and study one of those centers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   Mr. President, I would like to say that Senator LEAHY has been a prosecutor, has been interested in these issues, and has spent a lot of time and effort on it. 
   We indeed attempted to respond, as you know, to a number of the concerns he has had. Some of the suggestions and concerns he has raised I believe are worthy. We made a number of corrections which I think would be helpful to that. I know Senator HATCH has also worked hard on it. 
   Let me say first that juvenile crime is in fact a serious national problem. We have had some very real progress in the crime situation in America. We had some reductions in the 1980s. Then, in the mid-1980s, we had a crack epidemic which I think drove the number up some. But it has been declining among adult criminals steadfastly for quite a number of years. 
   I have watched those numbers carefully--not as a Senator but as an attorney general of Alabama and as a U.S. attorney and Federal prosecutor in Alabama. I have observed the numbers and what has been happening. There are some good trends. We need to keep those trends going. 
   A lot of people may not realize that from about 1980 until today we have quadrupled--four times--the number of people in prison as there were before. 
   During a time when many people thought the crime rate was going to continue to go up, this Nation--mostly at the State level--has begun to step forward and identify repeat, dangerous offenders, and not just act as a revolving door but to incarcerate them for longer periods of time, keeping them off the streets, keeping them from being gang leaders and involving other, more impressionable young people in their criminal activity. 
   We have had some nice reductions in violent crimes and, in crimes generally, some reduction among adults. We have not had the same kind of success in juvenile crime. There are a lot of reasons for that. I would like to suggest the fundamental reason, in my opinion; that is, we have not responded as a nation to juvenile crime as we have to adult crime. Most people may not know that 99.9999 percent of all juvenile cases are tried in State court. There are almost no juvenile cases tried in Federal court. 
   I was a Federal prosecutor, U.S. attorney, for 12 years. I think I prosecuted one juvenile case in 12 years. There are so many impediments to it, so many difficulties, that it kept those prosecutions from going forward even when they should have gone forward. We need to improve that and make it a little bit better and easier in appropriate cases for U.S. attorneys, Federal prosecutors, to prosecute juvenile cases. 
   But the thrust of our reform and the thrust of S. 254 is to encourage and strengthen the ability of State and local governments to prosecute and handle and deal with young people who are committing crimes, are about to commit crimes, and who are running afoul of the law. 
   We know that in the last several years there has been a reduction in juvenile violent murders and the rates have gone down--not dramatically, but it has been a good number. Overall, from 1993 through 1997, however, there has been an increase of 14 percent in arrests of juveniles for criminal activities; we are not seeing a decline. This is after 
   an incredible period of explosive growth in the last 15 or 20 years in juvenile crime--maybe even 25 or 30 years in juvenile crime. We have an extraordinarily high, unprecedented level of juvenile crime. Unfortunately, we have not responded to that. 
   Mr. President, I have seen it in my State. And my State is typical. We have increased adult prisoners, but we have not done anything to deal with what happens when a youngster is arrested for a serious crime. Judges don't have options. They don't have the ability to deal with them in an effective way, and they are coming back time and time and time again. 
   There was a murder in Montgomery, AL, when I was attorney general, by three young people. They were 16 and 15. I asked the police chief what kind of criminal history those three young people had. They were out on the streets. They were free, running loose. One had 5 prior arrests; another one had 5 prior arrests; and the third one had 15 prior arrests. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Utah for his steadfast leadership, his skill, and efforts on behalf of this legislation on which we have been working for 2 years. I hope now we are at a point where we can bring it to a conclusion. It passed last year out of committee with bipartisan support, 12 to 6. 
   We continue to have problems getting the bill up. I believe we will this time. There is support across the aisle. But I know there are those who believe we can somehow pass out a few billion dollars and we can prevent all crime in America. That is an awfully broad category, just to say ``prevention.'' What does that mean? How do you spend that money wisely? 
   My concept, as a prosecutor of 15 years, was to try to have the money where, first of all, our first focus would be to make sure the juvenile judges, who are seeing these kids come before them, have a full panoply of options with which to deal with them. They need to be able to drug test them. They need to be able to have them get drug treatment if need be. If they need to go to work camps, they ought to go to work camps or weekend work programs. If they need to have a boot camp, they ought to have that option. If they need to have detention, they should have that. Some do. I wish it were not so. So we have helped craft a bill to have the judge intervene effectively in the life of those youngsters when they first start getting arrested, when they first get in trouble with the law. 
   We have had a lot of talk and created this dichotomy, saying those kinds of programs are not prevention. I believe they are. I believe a program which has a school-based boot camp, like the one in my hometown of Mobile, that I have visited where kids go and have physical exercise, they have discipline, 
   and they have intensive schoolwork on their level--it is working for them. They have after-care to make sure they do not slide back into bad habits after they leave. So I think we have a lot of good things going. I believe that is prevention. 
   We, in this legislation, have half the money going for what they, on the other side of the aisle, would say is prevention. 
   I want to show this chart. It says some things that are important. It was done by the University of Maryland at the behest of the U.S. Department of Justice. They did a prevention evaluation report. We have billions of dollars being spent on programs for high-risk youth to try to keep them from heading down the road of a life of crime. A lot of those programs work. A lot of them are not very effective. Our bill, Senator HATCH's bill, has $40 million to research programs to see if they are working. 
   They have already done some research. This is the study the Department of Justice, President Clinton's Department of Justice, did. They found most crime prevention funds are being spent where they are needed least. Is that not a horrible thing to say? We do not have unlimited budgets. I have learned that here. We talk in big numbers but there is a limit to how many millions of dollars we can spend on projects. The conclusion of their own study was, these prevention moneys are being spent where they are needed least. Second, they concluded most crime prevention programs have never been evaluated. Third, among the evaluated programs, some of the least effective receive the most money. 
   That is a real indictment of us. I hope this research and evaluation money we have put in this legislation will help confront that problem. 
   The amendment that has been offered to spend over $1 billion more on prevention--that effort is pretty troubling to me. There have not been intensive hearings on these proposals, as the Senator from Utah noted. We have not evaluated them carefully. In effect, it appears to me we would be throwing money at the problem. Our history tells us that is precisely what we ought not to do. 
   What we have found is there are $4.4 billion now in juvenile prevention money from 117 different programs, according to the General Accounting Office study done very recently on our behalf --117 programs. I used to be in the 4-H Club. Being in the 4-H Club was probably a good thing for me. I got to go to Auburn one time. That was big for me. I had the award for the best hog in Wilcox County. But now they have 4-H Club programs in inner cities, for crime prevention. It may work. But the Department of Agriculture has programs to build 4-H Clubs in the inner cities as some sort of crime prevention program. I have my doubts about whether those are the best ways to spend that money. We need to evaluate these programs. 
   What we found is that money actually dedicated to law enforcement programs for juvenile justice, a juvenile justice system which is in a state of collapse in America, is zero. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent for 2 extra minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this is what we are doing today. The juvenile justice system in America really does need to be strengthened. When young people are being picked up on burglaries, small-time offenses, they are treated as if they are in a revolving door. The court systems are overwhelmed. There is no detention. There is no alternative to schools. There is no treatment for many of them. As a result, we are not intervening effectively in these young peoples' lives. To say money spent--as we do in about half of this bill--to strengthen the court system and strengthen its ability to intervene effectively with young people is not prevention is an error. It is prevention. Almost every one of these mass-murdering young people who has gone into these schools--not almost, I believe every single one of them, because I have watched it--has had some prior  criminal record. Had they been effectively dealt with then, maybe they would not have gone on to these more serious offenses. 
   That is where we are. I wish we could afford to spend as much as the Senator would like to on this panoply of prevention programs. We simply are not able to do that. We battled for every dollar we could as the bill is today. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I want to say that I am excited about where we are at this point with this legislation. It has been a 2-year struggle. Senator BIDEN is a great advocate and strong believer in his views. I have some strong views about it. I believe that at this point we have made a compromise, an agreement that both of us can live with, which will allow us to effectively respond at this time to assist State and local governments, State and local court systems and juvenile systems, and educational systems to better focus and better prevent and deter crime by young people. 
   I firmly believe we have seen over the last 20 years an extraordinary increase in the amount of juvenile crime in America. Hopefully, it will plateau out a bit. But between 1993 and 1997, juvenile crime was up another 14 percent and has been increasing even more rapidly than prior thereto. What we have is a piece of legislation which I believe will allow us to effectively deal with that. 
   Prevention: What is prevention? 
   A good, consistent court system that has credibility and respect among young people helps prevent crime. A court system that is known for not being credible does not prevent crime. Police officers tell me: They are laughing at us. They know we can't do anything to them. We have no place to put these kids. We have no detention, no punishment that we can impose. Nothing happens to them. We arrest them and they are let go. 
   That is what is happening too often in America. This bill will begin to turn the tide on that. 
   We will spend more money also on trying to prevent crime. I think we are making a good step forward. The House passed this bill. We passed it with bipartisan support last year in committee. I believe we will have a strong vote this time. 
   Thank you, Mr. President. 
   I again congratulate Senator HATCH for the outstanding leadership he has given as chairman of the Judiciary Committee and for his efforts to make this bill a reality. I thank him for his leadership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I know you, the Senator from Arkansas, are familiar with tragedies in high schools involving our young people who create havoc and take the lives of fellow students and others. The event in Colorado is the most glaring and stunning 
   example of the kind of violence that we are apparently capable of as a nation today. As chairman the Senate Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Youth Violence, I have given an awful lot of thought to it. But I am perplexed. A few things occur to me. There is what appears to me a pattern here that would suggest how we have gotten to this point. 
   It strikes me that an extremely small number of young people today have gotten on a very destructive path. They have headed down the road of anger and violence. They have not been acculturated with the kind of gentlemanliness and gentlewomanliness, not inculcated with religious faith and discipline, maybe a lack of values or whatever--somehow it did not take. Maybe their parents tried. Maybe they did not. 
   But, in addition to that, they are alienated and angry. They are able to hook into the Internet and play video games that are extraordinarily violent, that cause the blood pressure to rise and the adrenalin level to go up, games that cause people to be killed and the players to die themselves. It is a very intense experience. They are able to get into Internet chatrooms and, if there are no nuts or people of the same mentality in their hometown, hook up with people around the country. They are able to rent from the video store--not just go down and see ``Natural Born Killers'' or ``The Basketball Diaries''--but they are able to bring it home and watch it repeatedly. In this case even maybe make their own violent film. Many have said this murder was very much akin to ``The Basketball Diaries,'' in which a student goes in and shoots others in the classroom. 
   I have seen a video of that, and many others may have. 
   In music, there is Marilyn Manson, an individual who chooses the name of a mass murderer as part of his name. The lyrics of his music are consistent with his choice of name. They are violent and nihilistic and there are groups all over the world who do this, some German groups and others. 
   I guess what I am saying is, a person already troubled in this modern high-tech world can be in their car and hear the music, they can be in their room and see the video, they can go into the chatrooms and act out these video games and even take it to real life. Something there is very much of a problem. 
   All of us have to look for the signs of children who may be moving deeper and deeper into death, violence, nihilism, and other bad trends. We ought to say and we ought to encourage our teachers and our school administrators and our parents to intervene and to assert that life is better than death, that peace is better than violence, and honesty is better than falsehood; that respect for your brothers and tolerance and patience, even in the face of adverse actions by somebody toward you, is essential in a civilized society. I am concerned about that. 
   What I really want to mention today, because I have been through this for a number of years, is the question of what we do about firearms in America. I was at a church event, not too many months ago, and the preacher prayed against guns. I thought that was odd for him to pray against an inanimate object that does what the holder tells it to do. But I think we would do well to focus on what it is that is eating at the soul of too many people in America today, No. 1. 
   What about this problem with guns? I was a Federal prosecutor for 15 years, 12 as U.S. attorney under Presidents Reagan and Bush. They created a program called Project Triggerlock. In that program, this Congress passed legislation that said if you are convicted of carrying a firearm during a crime, a felony, it is 5 years without parole consecutive for the underlying offense. If you are a felon and you possess a firearm and you are guilty of a felony, you can get 2 or 3 more years in jail. 
   Those are bread-and-butter gun laws focusing on people who commit crimes with firearms. There are a lot of others: having a firearm without a serial  number, having a sawed-off shotgun, a fully automatic weapon, and now assault weapons. There are literally hundreds of gun laws. 
   The directive came down from the President of the United States that he wanted these people prosecuted for violating those gun laws. I took the directive. I was one of the lieutenants in the war, and we went to work. I created a newsletter and sent it to every sheriff. I said: If you have the kind of criminal that needs prosecuting under Federal gun laws, you bring those cases to me and we will prosecute them. 
   Our numbers went up tremendously, and the word began to get out. The word got out in the streets: If you have a gun, they will take you to Federal court. 
   By the way, most people do not realize that some good laws have been passed for Federal court. Ask your sheriffs and police chiefs which has the fastest justice system, which has the most severe punishment and the most certainty of punishment, which one is the felon least likely to get out of jail on parole, and every one of them will tell you the Federal system is tougher than any State. Whatever State you are in, the Federal justice system is tougher: We have a 70-day speedy trial act; whatever the sentence is, you have to serve at least 85 percent of it. 
   The Federal Sentencing Guidelines mandate tough sentences. The judges have to impose them. If not, the prosecutor can appeal, and they go to jail. They do not want to go to Federal court for a gun violation. I am telling you, the word gets out, in my professional opinion, having been a prosecutor, as I said, for 15 years in the Federal system and two as Attorney General. I 
   actually believe there was a deterrence in the number of people carrying guns in criminal activities. That is where people get killed. 
   When I was elected to the Senate in 1996 after I left as a Federal prosecutor in 1992, I began to look at the Department of Justice statistics on the kinds of cases they are prosecuting, because I served 15 years in the Department of Justice, and I know how to read those numbers. 
   I want to show you what we discovered. What we found is in 1992, when President Bush's U.S. attorneys left office, they were prosecuting 7,048 gun cases each year in 1992. They prosecuted over 7,000. Notice this chart shows the decline in those cases. It was 3,800 in 1998, a 40-percent decline. 
   This is particularly shocking to me because this President is always talking about guns and how we need to have more laws and we need to prosecute more people for guns, and they are not doing it. His own Attorney General, Janet Reno, has overseen a 40-percent decline. 
   This is not a secret. Since I have been here, for 2 years, when the Attorney General has come before our committee, the Deputy Attorney General, Eric Holder, the Chief of the Criminal Division for confirmation and other hearings, I have pulled out this very chart. I have gone over these numbers with them and have asked them why they are not prosecuting these cases. I have not yet received a good answer, other than they are just not putting the message out to the U.S. attorneys that they expect them to enforce these laws. 
   But what we have is a President who wants to call press conferences, as he did yesterday, to announce more laws; that we need to pass more laws. The bread-and-butter laws are already on the books, and we have added scores of other laws, which I support and I willingly prosecuted aggressively. 
   It concerns me that people say, ``Oh, you just don't believe in gun laws, JEFF. You are just NRA bought and paid for and you don't want to do this.'' They believe in the second amendment right to bear arms, and so do I. If you want to change it, let's talk about changing it, but there is a constitutional right to bear arms. There also is a right for the Government to place reasonable restrictions on the right to bear arms. 
   I have spent a big part, a major part of my professional career actively engaged with people who violate those reasonable restrictions. Machine guns, fully automatic weapons have been outlawed since the thirties, the Al Capone days. Sawed-off shotguns have been outlawed for many years. Bombs are outlawed today and have been for many years. 
   First of all, it concerns me, and I think it is hypocritical and really dishonest for the President to suggest that the way to deal with violations of gun laws is to pass more laws, if you are not prosecuting the ones we have. But, oh, that is the big deal: Are you for coming a little further to that second amendment core principle that protects the right to bear arms? Let's see how far we can go and make people vote against it because they have a concern for the Constitution and a general belief that the Government has gone too far and then say they don't care about guns, all the time presiding over an administration that is showing this dramatic decrease, a 40-percent decrease in the prosecutions. That is not an imaginary number. I have raised it with the Attorney General, and we pulled it out of their statistics. 
   In addition to that, we have in the last several years, at the behest of gun control advocates, passed a number of bills, some of which are good, some of which are marginal, but we passed them. We were told that these were critical to prevent violence in America. 
   And we need these gun laws. 
   I want to show you this chart. We pulled it out of the Department of Justice statistics. And I questioned them about it in hearings before this tragedy, because this isn't a recent deal, this is something that has been going on for several years, and it is well known. 
   One of the best things, I suppose, is, the possession of firearms on school grounds is a Federal crime. The First Lady, who sometimes it had been suggested was a de facto Attorney General at the beginning of this administration, yesterday was speaking about gun laws. And that is all right. But she has not had the experience I have had in prosecuting these cases. And she talks about, we need more of them. And this is one of them they highlighted. 
   But look at this. In 1997, the Clinton administration nationwide prosecuted five. In 1998, they prosecuted eight. 
   ``But we're committed, JEFF.'' But they said--the First Lady did in her speech yesterday--that there were 6,000 incidents last year in schools of weapons being brought to school. So how come her prosecutors are prosecuting so few of them? Let me ask you. I think it is a good question. 
   Unlawful transfer of firearms to juveniles. I support that. And right now it is unlawful for a firearms dealer to transfer a pistol to a juvenile, a person under 21. 
   Look at this. In 1997, they prosecuted five. In 1998, they prosecuted six. What difference does it make if we pass laws if nobody is being prosecuted for them? 
   Possession or transfer of semiautomatic weapons. Those are the assault weapons. The assault weapon is a weapon that looks like one of these fully automatic military weapons; it has the handles on it, but it is really a semiautomatic weapon that fires one time when you pull the trigger. Traditionally, a lot of rifles are semiautomatic. But in that configuration it was made illegal. 
   Remember all the debate about that? We had tremendous debate over the first time a semiautomatic rifle had been made illegal. But the administration's position was, it just had to have the law. They just had to have it. And it is an unpleasant weapon, I assure you. I do not think you have to have it to go hunting. But at any rate, in 1997, four of those cases were prosecuted in the entire United States; in 1998, four. 
   I say all that to say this: I believe we have to quit doing symbolic things. We need to quit doing things for headlines. We need to sit down and figure out how to reduce crime in America. 
   With regard to this very odd group of people we have seen in five States going on rampages in high schools, that is a unique and special group. And if they are determined to build a bomb, and can build one by looking it up on the Internet, whether or not they have to go down to the store to buy a weapon and give their name or whatever is not going to make much difference. That is real. And if they are seeing this on television, in videos, whether or not there is a law about it, as clever as these kids are, it is not likely to make much difference. 
   But I just say that that is a crucial matter for us. I would think, as one who has been at this for a long time, we need to maintain our discipline  now. And if something good can come out of this tragedy in Colorado, I pray that it will. 
   When that young girl affirmed her faith with a gun at her head, subjecting herself to summary execution by a laughing, diabolical shooter, I think we ought to take time to pause a minute and think about that, because this is really serious. It is deeper than whether or not you prosecute with 4 or 20 gun laws in the United States. It is deeper than that. That is what I am saying. But it does not mean that effective prosecutions of gun laws can't reduce crime. 
   Let me tell you this story. 
   Within the last month I, as chairman of the Judiciary 
   Subcommittee on Juvenile Crime, called a hearing. We were going to discuss a program known as Project Exile in Richmond which the leader of it called ``Trigger Lock with Steroids.'' Not only did they prosecute every gun violation they could find in Richmond, they ran ads on television saying: ``We will prosecute you.'' They put up signs saying how long you would serve in the Federal slammer if you carried a gun during a crime or illegality. 
   Their prosecutions went sky-high. But there were questions in the Department of Justice. The program was not supported because it was not the trend with this Department of Justice. But they kept doing it. And just last year they found they had over a 40-percent reduction in violent crime in Richmond. And the U.S. attorney, appointed by the President of the United States, President Clinton, testified and others involved with it--the chief of police in Richmond--testified that they were convinced that aggressive criminal prosecutions in a trigger-lock-type fashion of violent criminals, and other criminals who carried guns, helped drive down the murder rate. 
   I thought we ought to have a hearing about it. I wanted to highlight that and encourage it. What I want to say to you is funny, almost; and maybe something good came from that hearing. The hearing was set for Monday in our little, lowly committee, the Senate Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Juvenile Crime. On Saturday, before that hearing, the President went on his national radio show and said he wanted to adopt the Richmond project and promote and expand it. 
   So I hope maybe our hearing had something to do with getting the attention of the Department of Justice. But I have not seen any numbers to indicate that. It is easy to say words. But what we most often heard is that, we want new laws--which are not being prosecuted--and if we can pass a law, then we can say we did something. 
   I have been in this body just 2 years. I think there is a real problem here. Whenever there is a national matter of intense interest, what happens? We up and pass a law and say we did something. ``Hey, give me a medal. I passed a law. I am against assault weapons. I am fighting crime.'' If you have been in the pit and dealt with criminals professionally for a long time, you know it takes more than that. It takes a sustained effort. 
   If you do it consistently and aggressively, and you crack down on gun violations, you can in fact reduce the crime rate. Ask the U.S. Attorney and the chief of police in Richmond if it is not so. 
   I do hope the statement that the President made in his radio show really indicates a commitment to get these numbers up, because this is not acceptable for any administration, but particularly one which claims that the prosecuting of criminals and violations of Federal gun laws is a high priority of theirs. Obviously it is not. We have a 40-percent reduction. 
   So, maybe somebody says, ``JEFF, that is just political.'' It is not political with me. It is something I have lived with. I prosecuted these kinds of cases. I believe it reduces murders. I believe it saves the lives of innocent people. And I would like to see an effective program conducted by this administration. And it has in fact been demolished, as these numbers show. It undermines the effectiveness of that effort. 
   There are innocent people, I will assure you, today who have been shot and wounded--some people who have been killed--who would not have been had the Triggerlock Project continued. 
   So it is something that I have been raising since I first got to this Senate--at virtually every Judiciary Committee hearing I have had. I hope this tragedy will do one thing: It will get the attention of the President and the Attorney General and the Chief of the Criminal Division and the Associate Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General, and they will start sending the word out to their prosecutors. And they have more of them now than they had in 1992 when I was there. They ought to be putting more of these people in jail. If we do, they will make some difference. 
   But I really don't think even those prosecutions are likely to have any significant impact on the bizarre few people who are willing to go to a school and slaughter their own classmates, commit suicide, worship Adolf Hitler, and think of Marilyn Manson as something cool. That is a different matter with which we have to deal. 
   I hope as a nation we will confront it honestly and directly and begin to bring back in every school system, because some parents apparently are not doing it, a program that teaches character and good values like we are used to in America. There are those who say, well, you cannot do that, that is violating civil liberties, you cannot express a concern about right and wrong in a classroom because that is a value judgment. 
   Well, we are suffering today from 30 or 40 years of liberalism, relativism, that anything goes. Well, some will say that is just old-fashioned talk. 
   No, it is not. No nation, in my view, can remain strong in which there are no values which we can affirm. If we can't affirm that Adolf Hitler is bad, what are we? If we can't affirm that Charles Manson is not a fit person to emulate, then what are we as a nation? If we can't say that telling the truth is more important than telling a lie, that reality is better than spin, then we are in trouble. 
   I hope we have not reached that. I think the American people are good. I hope this tragedy has some ability to cause us to confront that and, if so, our Nation would be better for it. 
   Mr. President, I thank the Chair for allowing me to address this body on this important issue. I have shared with the Senate some thoughts and concerns of mine that have been a part of me for a long time. I believe it is something our Nation has to consider, and I hope and pray we will. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I wish to express my support for a bill that was introduced yesterday by Senator JEFFORDS--the Northeastern and Southern Dairy Compact. This bill would reauthorize the Northeastern Dairy Compact and grant the consent of Congress for a Southern Dairy Compact. The Southern Dairy Compact, which has been passed by Alabama and 10 other southeastern States, authorizes an interstate Compact Commission to take whatever measures are necessary to assure customers of an adequate local supply of fresh fluid milk while encouraging the continued viability of dairy farming within the region encompassing the compact States. 
   The current milk marketing order pricing system does not adequately account for regional differences in the costs of producing milk; furthermore, the Federal milk marketing order system establishes only minimum prices for milk. Due to these inconsistencies in milk prices, surplus milk is flooding the southeast and shutting down the family dairy farmer. By design, the Federal program relies on State regulation to account for regional differences. However, milk usually crosses State lines, so courts have ruled that individual States do not have the authority to regulate milk prices under the interstate commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution. To account for these regional price differences, states can gain regulatory authority by entering into a compact. States are now joining these compacts to maintain their dairy industry and are asking us to approve of the legislation they have already passed in their respective states. The support at the State level has been overwhelming and unanimous and I am hopeful this body will adopt these compacts unanimously as well. 
   The compact benefits everyone. Farmers are assured of more stable milk prices, thereby affording them the opportunity for better planning and recovery of production costs. Consumers will benefit as prices for fluid milk stabilize in the supermarket. According to the USDA and GAO accounting figures, there was a 40 percent increase in the market price of fluid milk between 1985 and 1997. According to the Office of Management and Budget, the compact established in the Northeast in 1996 increased the income of dairy farmers by 6 percent while maintaining prices to the consumer at 5 cents/gallon below the national average price for milk. In addition, OMB found no adverse effect on states outside of the compact. The compact is a win-win piece of legislation. 
   Dairy farming is an important industry in my State of Alabama, and I am a strong supporter of the family farmer. Their hard work and dedication is at the heart of the greatness of this nation. In Alabama, there are more than 2,000 employees in the dairy industry supporting a $48 million payroll. Last year, the dairy industry in Alabama generated a total of $204 million in economic activity. However, recent production capacity has deteriorated and further decreases may push production past the point of no return. From 1995 to 1998, milk production in Alabama decreased by 26 million pounds. The establishment of the dairy compact will ensure fair prices to farmers so that they can maintain a profitable level of milk production. The creation of a compact will bring stability to an important industry in Alabama and all over the Southeast. Consumers will be assured of fair prices and farmers will be confident in their production decisions. 
   The States have voiced their concerns. The States have developed a solution. It is now our responsibility to stamp our approval onto the compacts which have been passed in States throughout the Northeast and Southeast. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am pleased to rise and make some comments about the Y2K legislation designed to make sure that we spend our time and effort fixing this problem and not suing one another. 
   I really believe in the legal system. I had served as a lawyer my entire adult life, until 2 years ago, when I joined this Senate. I served as attorney general of Alabama. I was in private practice 12 years as U.S. attorney for the southern district of Alabama. During that time, I was involved in a lot of important legal issues. 
   I respect the law. I believe in our Constitution and our legal system. I have been to China, and I have heard the people in China say that what they need most of all right now for a modern economy is a good legal system. 
   I have been to Russia. I have heard the people in Russia talk about their need for an honest, fair, and efficient legal system. 
   We have a great legal system. We certainly ought not, as the Senator from South Carolina suggests, have a rush to judgment. But the problems that have occurred over a period of years involving excess litigation are not new. It has been occurring for a number of years, and it calls on us to think objectively and fairly as to how we are going to handle disputes. 
   This piece of legislation involves, as the Senator from Oregon just noted, one problem, a Y2K computer problem. It will terminate itself when that problem is over. But most of all, it is a commonsense and reasonable way for us to get through this problem without damaging our economy. 
   Let me share this story. These numbers that I am about to give were produced during a hearing at the Judiciary Committee not too long ago. We had some inquiry about the litigation involving asbestos and people at shipyards, and so forth, who breathe asbestos and had their health adversely affected. 
   What we learned was that over 200,000 cases had been filed, many of them taking years to reach conclusion. Two hundred thousand more were pending, and it was expected that another 200,000 would be filed out of that tragic problem. 
   What we also found was, when we made inquiry, we asked how much of the money actually paid by those defendant corporations got to the victims of asbestos. I am a person who believes in the legal system. I respect it. I was shocked and embarrassed to find out that the expert testimony was that only 40 percent of the money paid out by the asbestos companies actually got to the people who needed it, who were sick because of it. The legal fees are 30 and 40 percent. Court fees and costs all added to it take up 60 percent. 
   This is not acceptable. It is not acceptable if we care about a problem and how to fix it. That figure did not count the court systems that were clogged and remain clogged to this day by hundreds, even thousands of asbestos lawsuits. 
   I say to the Senate, we are facing a crisis. 
   These are some of the comments at the recent ABA, American Bar Association, convention in Toronto last August. A panel of experts predicted that the legal costs associated with the Y2K would exceed that of asbestos, breast implants, tobacco, and 
   Superfund litigation combined. By the way, with regard to these asbestos companies, even with regard to big companies, there are limits to how much they can pay. Every single asbestos company in America that is still in business is in bankruptcy. Every asbestos company still in business is in bankruptcy. These are tremendous costs. 
   What this American Bar Association study showed was that the cost of this litigation would exceed asbestos, breast implants, a huge amount of litigation, tobacco, and Superfund combined. They note that this is more than three times the total annual estimated cost of all civil litigation in the United States. 
   We have too much litigation now. Seminars on how to try a Y2K case--these are lawyers' seminars, trying to teach each other how to file them--are well underway. Approximately 500 law firms across the country have put together Y2K litigation teams to capitalize on the event. They can't wait. Also, several lawsuits have already been filed, making trial attorneys confident that a large number of businesses, big and small, will end up in court as both plaintiffs and defendants. They are going to be suing because something went wrong with their computer, and the people they sold the computer to, or are doing business with, are going to be suing them for problems arising from the computers. We are going to be spending more money on litigation than on fixing the problem. This report indicates this litigation problem ``would reduce investment and slow income growth for American workers. Indeed, innovation and economic growth would be stifled by the rapacity of strident litigators.'' 
   Well, I would say it is not a matter of whether there is a problem. There have been estimates of $1 trillion in legal costs for this thing. I think we do have a problem. 
   What is needed? I think this legislation goes a long way in meeting what is needed. What is needed is to spend our time and effort fixing the problem promptly. If we have all of our computer companies spending time hiring $500-per-hour lawyers to defend them in court, draining their resources from which to actually fix the problem, that is not the right direction to go in, I submit. In addition to that, when you are in litigation, you are not as open and willing to discuss the problem honestly with somebody because you are afraid anything you say and do will be used against you in a lawsuit. Lawyers are always saying, ``Don't talk about it.'' 
   What we really want is the computer companies to get in there with the businesses that are relying on the computers and try to fix the problem at the lowest possible cost. 
   Now, we had one witness who didn't favor this in the Judiciary Committee. The Judiciary Committee voted out a bill very similar to Senator MCCAIN's bill. I am pleased to support his bill, as well as the one in the Judiciary Committee. But this company that filed a lawsuit and received a substantial verdict was not in favor of the legislation, he said. I asked him how long it took to get his case over. He said 2 years. It took him 2 years to get the case to a conclusion. 
   Now, we are going to have hundreds of thousands of lawsuits in every county in America, every Federal court, clogged up with these kinds of cases, and it will take years to get to a conclusion, and that is not a healthy circumstance for America. I really mean that. That is not good for us, if we care about the American economy. So we need to do that. We need to get compensation to people who suffer losses promptly, with the least possible overhead, the least possible need to pay attorney fees, the least possible need to have expert witnesses and prolonged times to get to it. We need to get it promptly and effectively, and we need to make sure that people who have been fraudulent and irresponsible can be sued and can be taken to court and taken to trial. That will happen in this case. 
   Now, some have suggested that we are violating the Constitution if we do that. Well, that is not so. We believe in litigation and in being able to get redress in court. This law would provide for that. Historically, the U.S. Senate and the State legislatures, every day, set standards for lawsuits. They set the bases of liability. They say how long it takes before you can file a lawsuit. Sometimes the statute of limitations is 2 years, sometimes it is 1 year, sometimes it is 6 years. Legislatures set standards for litigation. That is what they do. We are a legislative body and we have a right and 
   an obligation to consider what is best for America in the face of this unique crisis and to deal with it effectively. 
   Let me ask, if we don't have such a law as this, what will happen? Well, I submit that there will be thousands of lawsuits filed. You may file it in one court and maybe they don't have many cases; maybe you have an expeditious judge and you get to trial within a matter of 6 months. Maybe in another court, it takes 2 years because they have a backlog. But you get to trial within 6 months. And say two people in that court get to trial within 6 months. One of them goes to a jury and the jury says, wait a minute, computer companies can't be responsible for all this; we don't think they are liable. No verdict. Down the hall, where another trial is going on, they come forward with a verdict of $10 million, or whatever, for this lawsuit.  
   Lawsuits are wonderful things for redressing wrongs, but in mass difficulties like this, they tend to promote aberrational distributions of limited amounts of resources. So we have a limited amount of resources and, as far as possible, we ought to create a legal system that gets prompt payment, consistently evaluating the kind of people who ought to get it. In some States, you will be able to recover huge verdicts because the State law would be very favorable. In other States, it would not be. 
   Some have suggested that it would be a horrendous retreat to eliminate joint and several liability. That is, if six people are involved in producing and distributing this computer system--six different defendants--and one is 5 percent at fault, one of them is 60 percent at fault and the others are somewhere in between, and the ones most at fault are bankrupt, they want the one least at fault to pay it all if they have the money to do so. 
   Now, people argue about that. That is a major legal policy debate throughout America today. Many States limit joint and several liability. Others have it in its entirety, and many are in between. So for us to make a decision on that with regard to this unique problem of computer Y2K is certainly not irrational. It is important for us. 
   Now, I say to you that the more lawsuits are filed, the longer the delays will be in actually getting compensation to the people who need it. Literally, when you talk to people in your hometown and they are involved in litigation, ask them about major litigation and they will tell you it would be unusual, in most circumstances, to get a case disposed of and tried within 1 year. Sometimes it is 3, 4, and 5 years before they are brought to a conclusion. 
   So I say that a system that promotes prompt payment of damages and prompt resolution of the matter is good for everyone. Allocating funds to fix this problem is a difficult thing. But the way you do it through the lawsuit system is not good in a situation where we have a massive nationwide problem. It is not a good way to do it. We are, again, talking about extraordinary costs and the clogging of courts. So the focus is taken away from actually fixing the problem and more to assigning blame, trying to encourage a jury to render the largest possible verdict. 
   Now, some would say, why do you have to limit the amount of punitive damages? Well, three times the amount of damages under this bill--damages are limited to three times the actual damages incurred for punitive, or $250,000, whichever is greater. They say, why do you want to do that? As long as there is a possibility that a jury might render a verdict for $10 million, lawyers have an incentive not to settle and take that case to a jury. 
   I have talked to lawyers. I know how they think. They say, well, we can settle this case for $200,000. They have offered that. I don't think we are likely to get much more than that, but there is a chance that we can get $1 million or $2 million. I believe we have a couple of jurors there who are sympathetic with us, and I am inclined to say, let's roll the dice and see. We are not likely to get a whole lot less, but we can get 5 or 10 times as much. That is what I advise you, Mr. Client; let's go for it. So what happens is this possibility of unlimited verdicts makes it more and more difficult in a practical setting for cases to be settled. 
   You will have more realistic settlements if you have this kind of limitation on the top end of punitive damages. 
   This bill will encourage remediation. It actually encourages prompt negotiation, consolidation, and problem solving. That is the focus of it. That is why I favor it. 
   I would just say this. Mr. President, the Y2K problem is a unique problem. It has the potential of hurting our economy. One of the greatest assets this Nation has--I can't stress this too much--is the strength and viability of our computer industry. We are world leaders. There is not a State in this Nation that doesn't have some computer manufacturing going on, and certainly not a community in America that does not depend on the innovation and creativity of the computer industry. They benefit from that creativity. 
   As a matter of fact, I heard one expert say that his belief is, the reason our economy is so strong, the reason inflation is not going up, even though salaries of our workers are going up faster than inflation, is because computers have made our workers more productive and that they can afford to pay them more, because using the high-tech computers, that are really just now in America coming on line fully and effectively and wisely utilized by American business, is really helping us increase productivity. 
   This is a marvelous asset for us. Some years ago many of these companies focusing on innovation and creativity apparently did not fully focus on the problem that is going to happen at the year 2000. 
   I mentioned earlier in my remarks how every asbestos company in America is now in bankruptcy. Many of those had a lot more business than just bankruptcy. They made asbestos. They made a lot more things than just asbestos. Yet their whole company was pulled down by this. 
   If we don't get a handle on this, think about it. We have the capacity to severely damage, by placing in bankruptcy, the most innovative, creative, beneficial industry perhaps this Nation has today, the thing that is leading us into the 21st century. I think this is a matter of critical importance. It is quite appropriate for the Congress to legislate on it. It is clearly a matter of interstate commerce. These computers are produced in one State and sold in all 50 States. 
   I really believe it is a situation that is appropriate for the Congress to respond to. It is appropriate for us to bring some rationality to the damages that will be paid out by these companies, to limit the amount of money they spend on litigation, to make sure the money gets promptly to those who need it, and otherwise to allow them to continue as viable entities producing every year more, better, and more creative products that make us more competitive in the marketplace. 
   Mr. President, I don't have any Microsoft business in my State. But I know the Department of Justice sued them for antitrust. I think that is fine. We will just see how that chase comes out. 
   In a way, it is sort of odd. I remember saying at the time that most countries which have a strong industry in their nation that is exporting and selling all over the world and improving the lives of millions of people do not sue them; they support them. But in America we tend to sue them when they get big. This idea that you are big, you have a deep pocket, and we ought to sue, I think, is not a healthy thing at this time. 
   Again, I think, as the Senator from Oregon mentioned, this is a one-time piece of legislation. For those who are troubled about any changes in our tort system, I really think that is not a wise approach. We need to make some changes. We have always changed our legal system. When there is a problem, we ought not hesitate to improve it. But if you are, remember, this is just a one-time problem. 
   Looking at a report from the Progressive Policy Institute, they concluded with these remarks:  
   Perhaps the most important big winner from liability limitation [that is, this bill] will be the United States economy and by extension U.S. consumers who will not have to indirectly bear up to $1 trillion in cost with a healthy share going to lawyers.  
   I like lawyers. I respect them. But they are not producers. They are not making computers. They are not fixing computers. What they are doing is filing lawsuits and taking big fees for it. And they will have at least a one-third contingent fee and usually maybe more than 40 percent.  
   By promoting attempts to Y2K remediation and lowering the likelihood of litigation, the rules instituted by this legislation will benefit everyone, not just a few. In the last State of the Union address, President Clinton urged Congress to find solutions that would make the Y2K problem the last headache of the 20th century rather than the first crisis of the 21st.  
   I think that is a good policy. The President has recognized the need for that. It has had bipartisan support in our committee, bipartisan support in this Senate--Republicans and Democrats. But there do remain a few who, through any way 
   possible, are really frustrated by this legislation and are attempting to undo it. In light of the crisis we are facing, the threat it poses to small businesses that need their systems fixed, and through our creative  and imaginative computer industry which leads the world, I believe we must act. 
   I very much appreciate the leadership of Senator JOHN MCCAIN. He is a true leader in every sense of the word. He is a man of courage; he understands technology. He has done a great job on it. 
   I also express my appreciation to Senator ORRIN HATCH and the Members of the Judiciary Committee who have likewise worked on this legislation. 
   There are two separate bills. But they are very similar, and in conclusion they are very similar. 
   Mr. President, I thank the Members of this body for their attention. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. DURBIN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990419</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Today is a special day for me. I remember a number of weeks ago when Senator ABRAHAM and I discussed the possibility of awarding a congressional gold medal to Rosa Parks. It was an idea that we thought was a good one. I am glad to see it moving rapidly to fruition. 
   I certainly believe the congressional gold medal is a very distinguished award that ought to be preserved for the most exceptional circumstances and persons. And I certainly believe that the person we will honor today has all the qualities for receiving the congressional gold medal. 
   So I am pleased to honor a native Alabamian who, through her life and through her example, has touched both the heart and conscience of an entire Nation. I speak, of course, of Ms. Rosa Parks, a native of Tuskegee, AL, and a former resident of Montgomery, whose dignity in the face of discrimination helped spark a movement to ensure that all citizens were treated equally under the law. 
   Equal treatment under the law is a fundamental pillar upon which our Republic rests. In fact, over the first 2 months of this year this Senate was engaged in a constitutional debate over the scope and meaning of this very concept. 
   As legislators, we should work to strengthen the appreciation for this important fundamental governing principle by recognizing those who make extraordinary contributions towards ensuring that all American citizens have that opportunity, regardless of their race, sex, creed, or national origin, to enjoy the freedoms this country has to offer. 
   Through her efforts, Ms. Parks has come to be a living embodiment of this principle, and it is entirely appropriate that Congress take this opportunity to acknowledge her contribution by authorizing the award of a congressional gold medal to her. Her courage, what we may call ``gumption,'' resulted in historic change. Certainly there is still much to be done. True equality--the total elimination of discrimination and a real sense of ease and acceptance among the races--has not yet been fully achieved, but it is fair to say that in the history of this effort, the most dramatic and productive chapter was ignited by the lady we seek to honor today. 
   Ms. Parks' story is well known but it bears repeating. She was born on February 4, 1913, in the small town of Tuskegee, AL, to Mr. James and Mrs. Leona McCauley. As a young child, she moved to Montgomery with her mother who was a local schoolteacher. Like many southern cities, the Montgomery of Ms. Parks' youth was a segregated city with numerous laws mandating the separate and unequal treatment of people based solely upon the color of their skin. These laws were discriminatory in their intent and divisive, unfair, and humiliating in application. But for years Ms. Parks had suffered with them, until that fateful day of December 1, 1955, when her pride and dignity would not allow her to obey them anymore. 
   On this day, Ms. Parks, a 42-year-old seamstress, boarded a city bus after a long, hard day at work. Like other public accommodations, this bus contained separate sections for white passengers and black passengers. White passengers were allocated to the front rows. The black passengers were given the back rows. This bus was particularly crowded that evening. 
   At one of the stops, a white passenger boarded and the bus driver, seeing Ms. Parks, requested that she give up her seat and move to the back of the bus, even though this meant that she would be forced to stand for the rest of the trip. Ms. Parks refused to give up her seat and was arrested for disobeying the bus driver's order. 
   With her act of civic defiance, Ms. Parks set off a chain of events that have led some to refer to her as the mother of the civil rights movement. Her arrest led to the Montgomery bus boycott, an organized movement led by a young minister named Martin Luther King, Jr., who had begun preaching at the historic Baptist church located on Montgomery's Dexter Avenue. The bus boycott lasted 382 days, and its impact directly led to the integration of bus lines, while the attention generated helped lift Dr. King to national prominence. Ultimately, the U.S. Supreme Court was asked to rule on the constitutionality of the Montgomery law which Ms. Parks had defied, and the Supreme Court struck it down. 
   This powerful image, that of a hard-working American ordered to the back of the bus just because of her race, was a catalytic event. It was the spark that caused a nation to stop accepting things as they had been and focused everyone on the fundamental issue--whether we could continue as a segregated society. 
   As a result of the movement Ms. Parks helped start, today's Montgomery is a quite different city from the one of her youth. Today the citizens of Montgomery look with a great deal of historical pride upon the church that once heard the sermons of Dr. King. Montgomery is the home of the Civil Rights Memorial, a striking monument of black granite and cascading water which 
   memorializes the individuals who gave their lives in pursuit of equal justice. 
   Today's Montgomery is a city in which its history as the capital of the Confederacy and its history as the birthplace of the civil rights movement are both recognized and reconciled. And soon Troy State University of Montgomery will become the home of the Rosa Parks Library and Museum, built on the very spot upon which Ms. Parks was arrested in 1955, the old Empire Theater. I will briefly describe this important project. 
   Troy State University, Montgomery, is an important university of over 3,400 full-time students. They are in the midst of constructing a 50,000-square-foot library and museum on the land they own which includes the exact location where Ms. Parks was arrested in 1955. When completed, this museum will include a 3,700-square-foot permanent exhibit focusing on the commemoration of the Montgomery civil rights movement. This project memorializes an historic event that changed the city of Montgomery for the better, and I look forward to offering any support I can to aid in its completion.  
   Ms. Parks' efforts helped spark the dynamic social changes which have made it possible for this kind of recognition to be supported by Montgomerians and Alabamians. But, in fact, Ms. Parks' contributions may extend beyond even the borders of our Nation. In his book ``Bus Ride to Justice,'' Mr. Fred Gray, who gained fame while in his twenties as Ms. Parks' attorney in the bus desegregation case and one of the early African American attorneys in Alabama--he was a lead attorney in many of Alabama's other famous civil rights cases--wrote--and I do not believe it is an exaggeration--these words:  
   Little did we know that we had set in motion a force that would ripple through Alabama, the South, and the Nation, and even the world. But from the vantage point of almost 40 years later, there is a direct correlation between what we started in Montgomery and what has subsequently happened in China, eastern Europe, South Africa and, even more recently, in Russia. While it is inaccurate to say that we all sat down and deliberately planned a movement that would echo and reverberate around the world, we did work around the clock, planning strategy and creating an atmosphere that gave strength, courage, faith and hope to people of all races, creeds, colors and religions around the world. And it all started on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama, with Rosa Parks on December 1, 1955.  
   For her courage, for her role in changing Alabama, the South, the Nation, and the world for the better, our Nation owes a great debt of thanks to Rosa Parks. I hope that this body will extend its thanks and recognition to her by awarding her the congressional gold medal. 
   Madam President, I thank you for this time and for being able to share these remarks. I also thank Senator ABRAHAM for his skill and work in helping us move this award forward. I think it is a fitting and appropriate thing to do. I have enjoyed working with him on quite a number of other issues. No one in the Senate is more respected by me than the Senator from Michigan. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. On behalf of the majority leader, I would like to make a few announcements. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. This morning, the Senate will be in a period of morning business until 12:30 p.m. Following morning business, the Senate will recess until 2:15 p.m. to allow the weekly party caucuses to meet, and upon reconvening at 2:15 p.m. the Senate will begin immediate consideration of the appointment of conferees with respect to the budget resolution. Therefore, Members should expect rollcall votes during today's session of the Senate. 
   The leader has also expressed his intent to consider the budget conference report this week, with the hope of a final vote on that important legislation by Thursday. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I understand there is a bill at the desk due for its second reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I object to further reading of this bill at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I also will take just a moment to express my personal appreciation to the Chair for chairing a very important subcommittee hearing this morning on OSHA, hearing at that meeting from an individual from Alabama, Mr. Ron Hayes, whose son tragically was killed in a workplace accident and who has made it his personal cause to confront the problems in OSHA, to make sure that agency is responsive to real needs and is really working to improve the workplace and make it safer and not just be involved in bureaucratic paperwork. It was an extraordinary hearing into a very important matter that can protect the lives and health of many people in the workplace and at the same time reduce bureaucracy and paperwork. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Military and Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 1999. This bill will close a legal loophole through which civilians who commit crimes while accompanying the Armed Forces overseas evade punishment. Today, when a civilian accompanies the military outside the United States, whether a relative, a dependent, or a civilian contractor--and there are many--the civilian is not subject to prosecution under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and does not fall under any of the general Federal criminal laws. 
   These individuals can only be prosecuted for their crimes if the host country chooses to do so. However, there are many circumstances in which the host country does not choose to  prosecute. They just often do not have an interest in the case. Additionally, in situations such as Somalia and Haiti, when our troops are rapidly deployed, typically no agreement exists governing how civilians will be prosecuted until months into the operation. Indeed, many times there are no laws in effect really in those countries. So we believe that something must be done in this regard. 
   There is a glaring deficiency here and it has come to my attention through a tragic incident. A U.S. Army dependent, not a soldier, living on an Army base in Germany, sexually molested two dependent children. The Army investigators found probable cause to believe that the sexual acts had occurred. However, under German law, no action could be taken against this juvenile. 
   Sometimes prosecutors are restricted by legal prohibitions, and sometimes they just have no interest in prosecuting a case involving Americans. 
   As of March 31, 1996, there were more than 240,000 family dependents and 96,000 civilian employees overseas. These persons accompany our troops to represent the United States, but many times they are in effect outside the law. 
   In addition to the sexual molestation incident that I have already mentioned, examples of crimes that have gone unpunished due do this loophole are rape, assault, battery, vandalism, and drug dealing. Although the offenders may receive some sort of administrative punishment, such as being barred from certain areas of the base or monetary fines, these administrative noncriminal penalties are inadequate for the more serious violations. 
   Because the military continues to rely heavily on civilian assistance and support, the United States must develop an appropriate and effective criminal process to deal with the misbehavior of civilians. It is important to the morale of our military forces that enlisted men and women working outside the United States along with civilian personnel do not believe that civilians who may commit a crime against them are beyond criminal prosecution. 
   This bill would extend the reach of title 18 of the United States Criminal Code to include those civilians that accompany the military outside the United States. When one of these civilians commits an offense that Congress has established as a maritime crime, the U.S. attorney's office would have the option to exercise jurisdiction and prosecute the offender in the United States. The bill would employ title 18, United States Code section 3238, which provides that an accused be tried in the U.S. district court where the offender first appears when he 
   is brought back to the United States. 
   Finally, in order to prevent legal conflicts with a jurisdiction recognized by the United States, this bill only applies if the host country has already prosecuted or is in the process of prosecuting the accused. 
   The need for this legislation was most recently described in a report submitted by the Overseas Jurisdiction Advisory Committee to the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and to this Congress. This panel was established in section 1151 of the 1996 National Defense Authorization Act. 
   In the act, Congress recognized this jurisdictional loophole needed to be examined so it established this advisory committee to study the problems of civilians who commit criminal acts when accompanying the Armed Forces overseas. This committee was composed of experts in military and civilian law from all branches of the armed services, the Department of Justice, and the State Department. The advisory committee found that this problem was serious enough that ``legislation is needed to address misconduct by civilians accompanying the forces overseas in peacetime settings.'' These experts believed that the jurisdictional void must be closed to ``maintain order and discipline.'' 
   The American Government must have the authority to discipline people it sends overseas to represent and serve this country. It is inconsistent with the American system of justice that a civilian employee working with service members and dependents of service members not be subject to American criminal laws. This piece of legislation is an important step toward recognizing the changing nature of our Armed Forces and making sure that the Criminal Code is keeping pace with the military's changing dynamic. 
   As a former U.S. attorney for 12 years myself, and one who has met frequently with victims, nothing can be more frustrating than to see a person or a family victimized by some awful act and have to tell them: There is no law that will vindicate you. Even though under various other circumstances it would be a plain crime, for some technical reason there is not a way to legally right this wrong. 
   So I believe this is an important bill. It closes a loophole involving more and more Americans each year. We simply do not need to cede away the authority to prosecute criminal acts to nations that may have no interest whatsoever in vindicating the rights of an American service man or woman who has been a victim of a crime. 
   I believe this is an important act. It has broad support, the support of the military and support of other officials of this Government. We think it is a needed step and I commend it to my fellow Members of the Senate. 
   I also want to express my appreciation for an Alabama family whose child was a victim of a crime, a sexual act, in a foreign country, who is here in this Capitol today, at the Senate today, and without whose support and encouragement this piece of legislation would not become law and would not have reached this point. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to rise in support and express my support for an amendment called the ``Class Act,'' a sense of the Senate. 
   The purpose of that Act is to deal with a growing problem in America. In the 1990s alone--we are not through the 1990s yet--we have accumulated more debt for college and higher education  than we have in the prior three decades, in the prior 30 years. We have an accelerating amount of debt to pay for 
   college education. People are graduating with more debt than they have ever graduated with before. And it is a disruption to them and their families as they start to build their careers. 
   So what is the problem? How has this happened? I don't propose the ``Class Act'' amendment that I have worked to introduce along with Senator BOB GRAHAM of Florida will solve that problem, but at least it is a significant step in the right direction. 
   What we have been doing as a Government is subsidizing debt and taxing savings for college. That is the bottom line to it. If you save money for college, you pay taxes on it. But the Government will subsidize and give you interest rate breaks and delays if you will borrow money for your higher education. 
   Forty-two States will soon have prepaid college tuition plans. They are very popular. They are expanding. Middle-income people are the ones that are taking advantage of it. They are putting money in. They are locking in college tuition at the paid cost so inflation doesn't hurt them on the rising tuition, and then they put the money into those accounts. When it is taken out to pay for the tuition, they have to pay income tax on what it has accumulated. That is, to me, a shortsighted view. It encourages debt and discourages savings. 
   So our public policy is actually to tax, to hinder, and to punish people who wisely save, but to subsidize people who go further into debt. 
   It is a nice bill. We believe in it strongly. It has bipartisan support. It has the strong support in the House of Representatives. It will require, I believe, $197 million in cost; only that much through the first 5 years of the program; and $600 million or so over the 10 years. But it will as a result of that encourage huge amounts of savings because, frankly, it is not all that clear, according to a lot of money managers, that it is the wisest thing in the world to take advantage of these programs, if you have to pay taxes on the increase. 
   If we eliminate that tax on the increase funds, put in prepaid college tuition plans, it will be a clear winner. Every financial manager will urge their clients to take advantage of this program. 
   It will eliminate--which is not considered in the cost analysis of this bill--but, in my opinion, it will in fact reduce the amount of Government loans and maybe Pell grants that will have to be expended by the Government. It will be a good public policy move for our country. 
   I appreciate the chairman's support. I appreciate Senator BOB GRAHAM from Florida, who is on the Finance Committee, who is a cosponsor to this, and a number of other Senators. 
   We believe it is good public policy at a reasonable cost, and will help produce a significant amount of money for higher education. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I am pleased to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator is precisely correct. It will be a sense of the Senate that that be done. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-4-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I would be honored. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill along with my colleague Senator INHOFE, which makes a technical correction to the Safe Drinking Water Act. This bill will end a frivolous lawsuit, clarify the intent of Congress and allow our State regulators and the Environmental Protection Agency to focus on protecting underground drinking water. 
   This bill clarifies the Safe Drinking Water Act by exempting hydraulic fracturing from the definition of underground injection. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used in the production of coalbed methane. This process uses high pressure water, carbon dioxide and sand to create microscopic fractures in coal seams to release and extract methane, oil and gas. Most states in which hydraulic fracturing is used, including my own state of Alabama, have in place regulations to ensure hydraulic fracturing continues to be a technique used in a safe manner. This technique has been used safely by coalbed methane, oil and gas producers for over fifteen years and has never been attributed to causing even a single case of contamination to an underground drinking water source. 
   On May 3rd of 1994, the Legal Environmental Assistance Foundation (LEAF) submitted a Petition for Promulgation of a Rule to withdraw the EPA's approval for the state of Alabama's Underground Injection Control (UIC) program. LEAF cited a case in Alabama of alleged drinking well contamination to justify its lawsuit. The EPA carefully reviewed this petition and on May 5th of 1995 the Administrator of the EPA, Carol Browner wrote to LEAF and stated ``based on that review, I have determined that Alabama's implementation of the UIC program is consistent with the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act''. Administrator Browner continued ``There is no evidence that the hydraulic fracturing at issue has resulted in any contamination or endangerment of underground sources of drinking water''. I ask unanimous consent that a complete copy of the text of that letter be inserted into the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. I wish to thank Senator COCHRAN and Senator KOHL for agreeing to my amendment to provide fairness to the administration of the crop disaster program enacted by Congress last Fall. I also wish to thank Senator HARKIN for his interest in this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Again, I thank the Senators. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Wyoming for allowing me to introduce this important amendment with him. I want to congratulate him for his good work on an issue that is, at its heart, a matter of great concern to those of us who believe that the Federal Government often goes too far in exerting its will on the individual States. I think that the legislation that we have adopted today is good legislation that recognizes the importance of protecting the ability of States to regulate gambling within their borders. 
   Allow me to briefly share some of my thoughts on the importance of this amendment. As Attorney General of Alabama, I cosigned a letter with 25 other Attorneys General that was sent to the Secretary of the Interior regarding his promulgation of the rules at issue today. Every one of the Attorneys General who signed this letter did so because we had come to the same legal conclusion: the Secretary of the Interior does not have the authority to take action to promulgate regulations allowing class III gambling in this manner. In fact, I believe that if the Secretary of the Interior were to attempt to finalize this rule and take action, he would immediately be sued by States throughout this country in what would amount to expensive and protracted litigation. I feel the Secretary would lose these suits, and that this amendment offers us the opportunity to prevent such a waste of resources on both the State and Federal level from occurring. 
   This is an important issue for my State of Alabama, which has one federally recognized tribe and which has not entered into a tribal-State gambling compact. The citizens of Alabama have consistently rejected the notion of allowing casino gambling within the State. If the Secretary of the Interior is allowed to unilaterally provide for class III casino gambling for this tribe, where the State has not agreed to enter into a compact and against the expressed will of the people, he will also be unilaterally deciding to impose great burdens on local communities throughout Alabama. This is because the one federally recognized tribe in our State owns several parcels of property, and it is likely that once casino gambling was established in one area it would spread to others. 
   Let me share with you a letter that the Mayor of Wetumpka, whose community is home to one of these parcels of property, wrote me in reference to the undue burdens her town would face if the Secretary were to step in and authorize casino gambling. Mayor Glenn writes:  
   Our infrastructure and police and fire departments could not cope with the burdens this type of activity would bring. The demand for greater social services that comes to areas around gambling facilities could not be adequately funded. Please once again convey to Secretary Babbitt our city's strong and adamant opposition to the establishment of an Indian gaming facility here.  
   Mayor Glenn's concerns about the costs to her community if the Secretary were able to exert this kind of authority have been seconded by other communities. Let me share with you an editorial that appeared in the Montgomery Advertiser. Montgomery is the state capital, and is located just a few miles from Wetumpka. The Advertiser wrote:  
   Direct Federal negotiations with tribes without State involvement would be an unjustifiably heavy-handed imposition of authority on Alabama. The decision whether to allow gambling here is too significant a decision economically, politically, socially to be made in the absence of extensive State involvement. A casino in Wetumpka--not to mention the others that would undoubtedly follow in other parts of the State--has implications far too great to allow the critical decision to be reached in Washington. Alabama has to have a hand in this high stakes game.  
   Mr. President, the author of this editorial is correct. We should not allow the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate rules giving himself the authority to impose drastic economic, political and social costs on our local communities. 
   I would also like to address another issue in connection with the regulations the Secretary of the Interior has proposed. If the Secretary is allowed to exert this kind of power, he will be in a position to enrich selected tribes, potentially by millions of dollars, simply by stroking a pen. I do not think this is proper. This is a powerful capability. Imagine the conflict of interests that could arise as tribes lobby the Secretary to either approve, or disapprove, requests for class III casino gambling facilities. Indeed, the current Secretary of the Interior has already had his actions in similar instances brought under investigation to see if departmental decisions were influenced by campaign donations. This is unseemly, and unsound. I think we should ensure that States remain a vital part of the negotiating process to add legitimacy to decisions that are made. 
   Mr. President, this amendment has broad, bipartisan support. It has been supported by the National Association of Governors, the National Association of Attorneys General, the Christian Coalition and the National League of Cities. It is a reasonable, limited approach to this problem and, on a more fundamental level, ensures the proper respect for the role of States in deciding these issues. It reflects my public policy belief that gambling decisions should be made on a rational basis by the people of the State who would have to live with the results of that activity, rather than by the Federal Government. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation, I welcome its inclusion in the Supplemental Appropriations legislation and I urge my colleagues to fight to preserve this provision during the conference negotiations with the House. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise to speak regarding my amendment to improve the crop loss assistance program. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to Chairman STEVENS, Senator COCHRAN, Senator LUGAR, and Senator KOHL for their assistance in gaining an agreement on this amendment. 
   I believe this amendment will help provide much needed assistance to our Nation's farmers. In the fiscal year 1999 omnibus appropriations bill we provided emergency funds to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to aid farmers who have suffered losses due to natural disasters in recent years. I believe the regulations that were promulgated by the USDA were inadequate to address the needs of many of our farmers. 
   Under the multi-year disaster assistance provisions contained in the fiscal year 1999 omnibus appropriations bill, farmers who experienced losses in three of the last five crop years (1994-1998) or 1998 alone were eligible for 25 percent of indemnities paid. Farmers would be paid the higher of the multi-year or single year loss but would not quality under both. 
   Many farmers in parts of Alabama experienced losses in two out of five years, or experienced devastating losses in years other than 1998 and so were ineligible for the disaster assistance. In addition, many producers experienced losses but did not meet the eligibility requirement since they may have had up to 35-percent losses but no insurance indemnity was paid that crop year. 
   Farmers may have also experienced a loss with a private crop policy such as rain and hail but did not have enough of a loss to trigger the indemnity. This amendment would require that USDA count indemnity losses by private policies such as rain and hail that were paid during the crop years 1994-1998 to be counted as a loss, under the three out of five year crop loss requirement. 
   In determining eligibility for the multi-year provisions, the Risk Management Agency, RMA, simply generated a list of producers by taxpayer ID and if their production records showed a loss for either 1998 or three out of the five preceding crop years, RMA determined they were eligible. However, since these private crop policies are not offered under the Multi-Peril Crop Insurance program, MPCI, and purely a private contract between the insured producer and insurance company, RMA did not count these losses as qualifying under the multi-year provisions. 
   This amendment will simply provide equity for producers who might have experienced losses under their private policies such as rain and hail, but did not experience losses under the catastrophic or ``buyup'' policies. I believe this amendment will provide essential flexibility in the program so that farmers who have endured severe conditions in recent years can qualify for the assistance we provided in the omnibus bill last year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President: I rise to make a few remarks concerning S. 257, The National Missile Defense Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the plan of the Senator from Iowa to mandate to the States how they will spend the money they won in litigation against tobacco companies. It went on for quite a number of years. The State attorneys general gradually, through various different theories of law--and there were lots of different theories--won those 
   lawsuits and achieved a tremendous settlement. Basically, the tobacco companies, at some point, just capitulated and agreed to pay billions of dollars. 
   At this point, the Federal Government may or may not have a claim upon that money. Senator HUTCHISON of Texas has introduced legislation, which I intend to support, which would say that that money would stay with the States. They won it in the litigation. It is part of their settlements. They should keep it. And the Federal Government is not claiming it. 
   I understand the Senator's idea--and I know he has the highest motives behind it--is to tell the States how they should spend portions of that money, primarily under the theory that it was Medicaid money, and the Federal Government put money into Medicaid, a big chunk of the money is paid by the Federal Government for Medicaid. But let me just say why I think we would be better off not doing that. 
   First of all, in all the settlements, as I understand it, only one settlement, Florida's, mentions Medicaid. A large number of the cases mentioned Medicaid in their lawsuits, but a lot of  them were based on other causes of action against the tobacco companies: RICO, the racketeering charges; antitrust violations--unjust enrichment was the one in Mississippi, which I thought was astounding, to win several billion dollars on the old common law theory, equity theory, of unjust enrichment. In fact, they filed it in an equity court and did not even have a jury trial. They eventually settled it without even a trial occurring. 
   But at any rate, that money goes to the States, and it is their money. I suggest that the States already are planning how to spend it. I understand in Texas, according to Senator HUTCHISON, who will be back on the floor shortly, they have antismoking educational campaigns planned. 
   Alabama has, I believe, a good program. It is called Children First. It is a program to deal with dropouts, to deal with teen smoking and drinking and drug abuse and problem kids, preschool programs, a comprehensive plan to deal with juvenile crime and violence and delinquency, and to help place children first. The funding for it will come from the settlement of this lawsuit. They are counting on doing that. 
   To mandate them to spend it on entirely a new set of proposals they have never given any thought to would complicate Alabama's freedom to spend the money they won the way they want to spend it. I really believe it would be a terrible burden on the State of Alabama. I think that is going to be true in every State where these settlements have taken place. 
   So what we have is the Federal Government saying, ``If we can't have the money, and if we're going to lose on this amendment''--and Senator HUTCHISON has bipartisan support for it, and I am confident it will pass--``if we're going to lose on this amendment, if we don't get to bring it into our Treasury so we can spend it and do what we want to do with it, we'll just declare how the States have to spend it. By the way, if you don't satisfy us, the Secretary of HHS, Secretary Shalala, can cut off your Medicaid funding or deny you benefits under these settlements in the future.'' 
   So I just believe that that isn't what we need to be doing here. I do not think that is good public policy. I believe that these States are already at this moment planning how to spend it. 
   And, by the way, these mandates are not easily achievable. 
   Presumably, a State, to get money under it, would have to call a special session of their legislature--have to call a special session. And what if they did not want to vote to do that? What if good and decent State legislators said: We don't want to do these percentages that the Senator has just proposed. We don't want to spend our money just like that. We would like to spend it on Children First. We would like to spend it on delinquency camps or alternative schools. We want to do it on various other projects that are not precisely what is mandated here. Maybe they are already spending money on programs mandated here. 
   I salute the Senator from Texas. I believe she has the right approach. We need to let this money go, give it up. We did not file the lawsuits; the States filed the lawsuits. We did not win the lawsuits; the States won the lawsuits. The tobacco companies agreed to pay the money to the States. And they are going to spend it for what they believe is best for their people. I think we ought to follow that. 
   I want to mention one other thing. I am uncomfortable with this deal in which the Secretary of HHS would be able to review the allocation of the funds by the States and given the power to cut off funds to the States if they did not precisely allocate it as this proposal would allocate it. I do not think that is the kind of power we need to have over the States. 
   I think this is good legislation. The Senator from Texas, I know, will be returning to the floor in just a moment, and she will be making further comments on it. I thank the Chair for his attention and I yield the floor. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, on May 1-3, 1999 more than 1,200 students from across the United States will be in Washington DC to compete in the national finals of the ``We the People ..... The Citizen and the Constitution'' program. I am proud to announce that a class from Corner High School from the city of Warrior will represent my home state of Alabama in this national event. These young scholars have worked diligently to reach the national finals and through their experience have gained a deep knowledge and understanding of the fundamental principles and values of our constitutional democracy. 
   The ``We the People ..... The Citizen and the Constitution'' program is the most extensive educational program in the country developed specifically to educate young people about the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. The three-day national competition is modeled after hearings in the United States Congress. These hearings consist of oral presentations by high school students before a panel of adult judges. The students testify as constitutional experts before a ``congressional committee,'' that is, the panel of judges representing various regions of the country and a variety of appropriate professional fields. The student testimony is followed by a period of questioning during which the judges probe students for their depth of understanding and ability to apply their constitutional knowledge. 
   The student team from Corner High School is currently conducting research and preparing for the upcoming national competition in Washington, DC. I am extremely proud of the students and teacher and wish them the best of luck at ``We the People'' national finals. I look forward to greeting them when they visit Capitol Hill.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Chair. 
   I appreciate the work Senator JEFFORDS has done. 
   Mr. President, I would like to share just a few thoughts. I have been involved in education with my children. I have taught, my wife has taught in public school. We care about education. We have school boards all over America that care about education. I know one of the school board members in my hometown of Mobile, AL, exceedingly well. His abilities and 
   talents will match any Member of this body. He knows a lot more about the education going on in his area than we know in this body. Who is to say what is the best way to expend money to improve our children's education? The thing that counts is that magic moment in a classroom when learning occurs and children are motivated and inspired to do better. 
   I do not believe this Congress has the ability or has a proven track record of improvement. We now have a host of amendments. We have 788 Federal programs--788. We had an amendment offered yesterday that would mean the 789th; it would create a dropout czar for America. 
   I have been involved in local programs to deal with dropouts. Programs like that are happening all over America. It is not going to be solved by some Federal dropout czar. 
   This legislation is precisely what we need. It needs to go out of here clean, not as an appropriation, big Government spending bill, but a bill that gives flexibility to the schools. 
   The Presiding Officer was Governor. He knows how much benefit was gained when welfare reform was accomplished and we gave flexibility to Governors. I think it is time we give flexibility to our State and local school systems to improve education. 
   I thank the chairman, the Senator from Vermont, for his leadership. This is good legislation. It is time for us to pass it, and we can debate these issues about how further to help education when the elementary and secondary education bill comes up, which the Senator will be leading later this month. 
   I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I am pleased to be working with the Senator from Connecticut on truancy legislation. I am struck by the alignment of our interests here. I believe this is a national problem and one that deserves federal attention. I am pleased that Senator DODD and I have been able to work out an agreement here that avoids an amendment to the Ed Flex bill on this subject, which would be a concern for me and a number of my colleagues who very much want to be supportive in this effort to address truancy. I look forward to working with the Senator to bring forward a strong bill from my committee to support efforts to assist local governments in their efforts to reduce truancy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I thank Senators JEFFORDS and FRIST and those who have worked so hard on the Ed-Flex bill. This is an outstanding piece of legislation. It has the support of our Nation's Governors, the National Governors' Association. They strongly support this legislation. Most of the educational leadership in the States and local communities support this type of legislation. My Governor of Alabama, a Democrat, Don Siegelman, supports this legislation. Mr. Ed Richardson, the State superintendent of education in Alabama, supports this legislation. 
   The Ed-Flex bill came out of Labor Committee last year with a 17-1 vote. Democrats and Republicans supported it. Now this year, the President indicates that he will support it and sign this legislation. The strength of it is that it is a clean bill. Basically, what it says is that we learned a lot from the historic welfare reform debate during the 104th Congress. We learned if you give State and local officials some flexibility and the ability to do things differently than the Federal regulations have mandated, they will find ways to be better. They will find ways to do a better job. It is an affirmation of them. 
   I'd also indicate that a GAO report in 1998 said that the Department of Education officials have told the GAO that they believe that 12 Ed-Flex States, the 12 States that now have this legislation as a pilot project, have used their waiver authority carefully and judiciously. 
   Mr. President, It simply goes against reason that people duly elected to run the school systems in our counties and States would abuse flexibility and should be denied creativity because those of us in this body believe we know how to run their school systems better. The Federal Government provides only 7 percent of the money for State and local education, but it mandates over 50 percent of the regulations. 
   Let me read you a letter I received from the Montgomery public schools in Montgomery, AL. This is what I was told with regard to paperwork that has to be done for the Federal Government.  
   Personnel in the schools of the Montgomery Public School System and three Central Office assistants are estimated to spend this year 16,425 hours in Title I program documentation, bookkeeping, etc. What this boils down to moneywise, is that the system spends $860,833.48 for the personnel to take care of the paperwork. This is a conservative estimate and does not include such programs as HIPPY and other programs funded by Title I not housed in schools.  
   This is the kind of thing that is happening. This is the kind of money we need to get down to the classroom. I taught in public schools one year. My wife has taught in public schools a number of years. Our two daughters graduated from a large public high school in Mobile, AL. We have been involved in PTA. To suggest the principals and teachers and school superintendents do not care about their kids and are not trying to do better to get more bang for their buck every day is to demean them and put them down, while we have this idea that we have to protect the system by mandating what they do. 
   I think the Ed-Flex bill is a wonderful bill. It is a clean bill. It is not a radical bill. It allows applications for waivers and that sort of thing. 
   Mr. President as a teacher, as a spouse of a teacher, and as a parent of children in the Alabama public schools, I know that the most important event is that magic moment in a classroom when learning actually occurs. That magic moment is not enhanced by micromanaging regulations from Washington, DC. It simply does not help education. 
   Mr. President, I care about education. I want to see our education system improved. I will support--as Congress has done for the last 10 years--increased Federal funding for education. But I want to be sure it is used wisely and efficiently so that learning is enhanced, and not creating a bureaucracy that takes 35 cents out of every dollar before it ever gets down to the States. That is what we have learned. In fact, after this modest bill, I will be supporting a bill that will have even greater impact which will require that 95 percent of every Federal education dollar that is expended actually goes to the local classroom. 
   Let me share with this body a response to a question I proposed to a principal of a Title I elementary school in Alabama, Mr. Thomas Toleston. He was asked what would he do if he had less Federal mandates which would help free up some extra money for his school; if the Federal Government would eliminate the regulations, how would he spend the freed up funds. This is what he said he would like:  
   I would ensure that Southlawn would implement a comprehensive summer school program in reading and math for all students who score below average on the Stanford Achievement Test 9.  
   No one here even knows what the Stanford Achievement Test 9 is. He does; this is his career. That is what he would like to spend more money on--not building a new classroom or 100,000 new teachers. 
   He said:  
   This would include sufficient faculty, hardware and software in an effort to bring those poor performing students up to average performance.  
   So you could take your year-long teachers and pay them extra to work in the summer school program.  
   If additional funds were available, I would also attempt to bring more faculty to our extended day program [afterschool programs] to offer more exposure to our students. These exposures would be in the areas of music, i.e. violin and other musical instruments that are available in the Montgomery  Public School System, but are not being utilized.  
   They would take extra funds to have teachers come down after school to do this, not new teachers.  
   Another area of interest to me would be the ability to provide students with scholarships of additional exposure. This would include paid trips to the Huntsville Space Center to increase students' interest in science and math.  
   Now, we have been talking about building classrooms and adding 100,000 teachers and all these ideas that people in this body, who have been doing some polling, and they think the polls are good so they offer to mandate it all over the country. Mr. Toleston never mentioned any of those ideas, yet we here in Washington want to force them on him and his school?  
   The earlier we expose students to these hard core areas the greater the chances for them to develop an interest. 
   I would also like to expand our present extended day program to begin classes in computer program at the 4th and 5th grade level. This is a career that will allow one to have a fairly good paying job without a college degree. This program would provide a net for some of the students who we know will never make it to college. But, again, I think that the interest must be presented at the elementary level to make a significant difference. 
   Since we all know that the greater the parent involvement the better students do in school, I would like to have more money set aside for parent programs. Presently, I have one teacher who volunteers one night a week to teach parents how to use computers. I would like to compensate her but the funds are not available.  
   Under this bill, if we have Federal mandates, they still won't be available. 
   He goes on to say:  
   Most of the planning for the school year takes place during the summer months. The stipend paid to teachers is $50.00 per day. I would like to have the flexibility to offer my teacher an additional $50.00 per day. This still seems like a small price to pay but it would be a worth while incentive for them to give up one of their summer vacation days. I feel that this would encourage more teachers to be apart of the planning process during the summer. Once school starts it is time to execute our plans--no time for planning.  
   Mr. President, those are just some of the points that I would make. 
   I would just say this: People are asking, Why won't this bill pass? I think they have to look at those on the other side of the aisle who say often that they are for returning control to the local people, to people we have elected in our communities to run our school systems. But when the chips are down, there is always some reason not to. 
   I hope that we can work through some of these amendments, all of which ought to be debated during the Elementary and Secondary Education Act that we will be taking up later this year, not on this bill. This is a clean bill, and should be kept clean. If we will do that, we can pass this important bill, and then we can deal with many of these issues later. 
   Mr. President, I thank you for the time. I d also like to again thank Senators FRIST and JEFFORDS for all of their hard work on this bill. I agree wholeheartedly with the premise of this legislation which is that, if given more flexibility, our local school systems can improve their ability to educate our children. 
   I notice that the majority leader has arrived on the floor. I am pleased to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990310</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I would like to share a few remarks. I have had the pleasure to be able to preside over this body for the last hour and hear some excellent remarks from Senators who are concerned about education. I thought, as we heard some  good remarks from one of our brother Senators about an amendment to deal with the dropout rate, that this is how we have gotten where we are today in large part. 
   The remarks were good. I personally am concerned about the dropout rate. I have been involved in youth programs in my hometown of Mobile, AL. We had a meeting with the police and the school boards on how to deal with truancy, dropout problems, and what we could do to confront that. That is happening, I suspect, all over America right now. Some schools have good dropout programs, others do not. 
   The question was, are these numbers--showing 50 percent in many schools dropping out before graduating--are they accurate? I am not sure that they are, frankly. We questioned that in our community, because sometimes when people transfer from one school to another, they are counted as a dropout. But we do have higher dropouts than we need. And good school systems are identifying them at the earliest possible time in dealing with them. 
   But I thought to myself as it was suggested--this amendment would suggest and mandate that we have a dropout czar in America--so this U.S. Senate now is going to take it upon itself to have a czar to deal with dropout problems. And that will be the 789th--if I am correct in my numbers--Federal program Congress would have adopted and that is now in effect, all to be added to a bill called Ed-Flex that is suppose to give more flexibility to the school systems, to allow them to use the resources we are sending to them now effectively to deal with the problems as they know they exist and they would like to deal with them. 
   Yes, I wish I could wave a wand and create a program that would instantly eliminate the dropout problem in America. I would be tempted, as all of us are, to think we could appoint a czar in Washington who would stop the dropout problem. But I really do not think it is going to happen. 
   What we have to do is strengthen our school systems in the classroom, where teaching occurs, making those schools more friendly, more motivating, more interesting, more challenging, educating the young people who are there, because really the only thing that counts is that magic moment in a classroom when the learning occurs between teachers and pupils. 
   One of the Senators said our problem is schools are too big. Well, I guess next we will have a czar to set the sizes of schools in America. My daughters both graduated from a large high school in Mobile, AL. Bill Bennett came down and gave them an award as one of the best high schools in America--racially balanced--a big high school, Murphy High School, an outstanding high school. It is a large school. All large schools are not bad. In fact, our dog was named Murphy, named after the high school. We loved that school. My wife and I participated in the PTA and were most interested in what went on there. 
   When I graduated, my senior class had 30 members. It was a 
   public high school. The one who finished third in my class of 30 is now dean at the University of Alabama. And I finished below her. And the one who finished two below me--seventh--graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy. 
   I do not think we need in this body to be saying what the sizes of schools ought to be and how school systems ought to run their programs. We need to help them in every way we can and to eliminate this problem, as I noted earlier today, where a system like Montgomery, AL, spends, according to the letter I got, $860,000 to comply with Federal regulations. The Federal Government gives 8 percent of the funding and over 50 percent of the regulations. 
   So our chairman, Senator JEFFORDS, has presented a commonsense, reasonable, modest step toward allowing local school systems to petition for the right to have flexibility in how many of these governmental programs are ordered. That is so rational, it makes so much sense, and it in fact was proven effective in the welfare reform bill. That is all we are talking about. 
   There is no doubt Senator JEFFORDS will conduct hearings on any of these matters. He will take testimony and receive it and consider matters to deal with truancy, matters to deal with drug problems, matters to deal with special education. We want to deal with that. But that will come up in the education bill that will come along later. 
   This bill needs to remain a clean bill designed to create flexibility for our school systems in America. That is what it ought to be. We ought not to allow it to be clogged up with every Senator's view of what would be wonderful if they just ran schools in America, because that is how we have gotten in this fix. That is what we are trying to make some progress toward completing. 
   I care about education. I care about public education. I taught. My wife has taught. Our children have participated in public education. We want to make it better. But I am not at all persuaded that the Members of this body have studied the problems of the Mobile, AL, or Vermont school systems. They have not studied those problems. They do not know how to fix them. They read a study somewhere that says something, and they feel obligated to come down here and present the next program, the 789th program, Federal Government mandate, to fix it. Then they can go back home and say, ``I fixed truancy, I fixed dropout problems,'' or whatever. 
   I just say to my colleagues that this is not the way to do it. We have elected school board presidents, school board members. We have superintendents of education. We have principals. We have teachers. They know our children's names. We need to put as much power and as much money into the hands of the people who know our children's names as we possibly can. If they do not care about our children, we need to make sure we have someone there who does. But I submit to you they do care about them. They are better trained than we are in education. They are seeing kids every day in their classrooms. They know what facilities are in existence. Do they need more teachers? Do they need more classrooms? Do they need more computers? Let them decide that. 
   That is what we should do; give them the flexibility to make the decisions needed. 
   I think we will find, if we pass this bill, that instead of just the 12 States indicated in the chart from the GAO report this past November--the GAO studied this Ed-Flex bill that gave 12 States the right to have more flexibility in their educational programs. They concluded that they have used their authority well, the flexibility given to them, and that the waiver authority has been used carefully and judiciously. 
   Why would we expect otherwise? Why would we expect that the people we have elected and hired to take care of our children, who know our children's names, are not going to use freedom and financial support from Washington carefully and expeditiously? I feel very strongly about this. 
   I see the Senator from Arkansas has come to the floor. I will be anxious to hear his remarks, because he has served on this committee, that I have just joined this January, for the past 2 years. He is passionately concerned about improving education. He has a bill that I am proud to support--Dollars to the Classroom. That bill goes much further than this Ed-Flex bill. I believe it would be a historic step toward empowering our local education system to get out from under Federal regulations and be able to focus entirely on educating our children, get that money and authority to the classroom where it can be used wisely. 
   I thank the Chair for the time and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Thank you, Madam President. 
   I want to express my appreciation to Senator FRIST for his excellent leadership on this bill. Senator JEFFORDS, who has managed it, brought it out of the committee last year 17-1. It has broad bipartisan support, and was crafted by Democrats and Republicans. Yet, we get here now and we get into this kind of political brouhaha, this kind of spat that does nothing for education. It is not healthy for America and confuses people about what is important. 
   As Senator FRIST noted, we are talking about a bill, Ed-Flex, that will give our school systems some flexibility as we gave the State welfare systems flexibility. We know how well they did when we gave them that flexibility. It would give the school that same kind of flexibility and not cost one dime. It would not cost any money. 
   Blithely now, we have a Senator walking in here to propose a $12-billion amendment--just like that--100,000 teachers. Somebody ran a focus group, I suppose, did a poll somewhere and the people said, ``We like teachers; we like smaller class sizes.'' 
   We have hired Ph.Ds and experienced teachers to lead our school systems. Principals all across America are concerned about the schools in your community and in my community. I don't know why we should have some mandate here; we haven't even had hearings on this. We will spend $12 billion on teachers--maybe we ought to consider whether we should spend it on something else. 
   This legislation is supported by the National Governors' Association. There is not a Governor in America today who didn't get elected who promised to improve education in his State. They are committed to the improvement of education in their States. They love their children in their States as much or more than Senators love the children in each of the 50 States. They want good school systems. They support this bill. They are calling on us to pass this bill and get out of this political folderol we are going through. Our new Governor in Alabama, a Democrat, Don Siegelman, supports this bill. Dr. Ed Richardson, the Alabama State superintendent of education, supports the legislation. 
   I will share some information with this body. One of my staff people visited a Montgomery title I school in a poor neighborhood, sat down with the principal, and asked him what he would like for his school system if he could name it right now. The principal, Mr. Thomas Toleston, from Southlawn Elementary School, when asked what he would do if he could be free from redtape and Federal regulations, said:  
   I would ensure that Southlawn implement a comprehensive summer school program.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent for 1 additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-3-19990308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Thomas Toleston listed a number of items, including taking kids to educational programs like NASA, afterschool programs, he mentioned bringing in extended-day programs and for paying faculty for extended-day programs. 
   I just say this: The people we elected in our communities care about our children. We ought to allow them to do their job with the least possible headache from Washington. It is arrogant of us to think we know better how to spend the money to educate the children than the people who elected us. 
   Mr. KENNEDY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I want to say how much I appreciate the courtesies of Senator ABRAHAM and Senator LEVIN as we work through this effort to achieve this Gold Medal for Ms. Rosa Parks. I think it is a very fitting and appropriate thing that we do so. 
   So I rise today to recognize Ms. Parks, a native Alabamian, who through her life and example has touched both the heart and the conscience of an entire Nation. She is a native of Tuskegee, and a former resident of Montgomery, AL. Her dignity in the face of discrimination helped spark a movement to ensure that all citizens were treated equally under the law. 
   Equal treatment under the law is a fundamental pillar upon which our Republic rests. In fact, over the first 2 months of this year this Senate has discussed that very issue in some detail. As legislators, we should work to strengthen the appreciation for this fundamental governing principle and recognize those who have made extraordinary contributions toward ensuring that all American citizens have the same opportunities, regardless of their race, sex, creed, or national origin, to enjoy the freedoms this country has to offer. 
   Through her efforts, Ms. Parks has become a living embodiment of this principle. And it is entirely appropriate that this Congress takes the opportunity to acknowledge her contribution by authorizing the award of a Congressional Gold Medal to her. Her courage, what we in Alabama might call ``gumption'', at a critical juncture resulted in historic change. 
   Certainly, there is much still to be done. True equality, the total elimination of discrimination, and a real sense of ease and acceptance among the races has not been fully reached. But it is fair to say that in the history of this effort, the most dramatic and productive chapter was ignited by the lady we honor today. 
   Ms. Parks' story is well known, but it bears repeating. She was born on February 4, 1913, in the small town of Tuskegee AL to Mr. James and Leona McCauley. As a young child, she moved to Montgomery with her mother, who was a local schoolteacher. Like many Southern cities, the Montgomery of Ms. Parks' youth was a segregated city with numerous laws mandating the unequal treatment of people based on the  color of their skin. These laws were discriminatory in their intent, and divisive, unfair, and humiliating in their application, but for years Ms. Parks had suffered with them until the fateful day of December 1, 1955, when her pride and her dignity would allow her to obey them no more. On this day Ms. Parks, a 42-year-old seamstress, boarded a city bus after a long, hard day at work. Like other public accommodations, this bus contained separate sections for white and black passengers, with white passengers allocated the front rows, and black passengers given the back. This bus was particularly crowded that evening. At one of the stops, a white passenger boarded, and the bus driver, seeing Ms. Parks, requested that she give up her seat and move to the back of the bus, even though this meant that she would be forced to stand. Ms. Parks refused to give up her seat and was arrested for disobeying that order. 
   For this act of civic defiance, Ms. Parks set off a chain of events that have led some to refer to her as the ``Mother of the Civil Rights Movement.'' Her arrest led to the Montgomery bus boycott, and organized movement led by a young minister, then unknown, named Martin Luther King, Jr., who had been preaching at the historic Baptist church located on Montgomery's Dexter Avenue. The bus boycott lasted 382 days, and its impact directly led to the integration of the bus lines while the attention generated helped lift Dr. King to national prominence. Ultimately, the U.S. Supreme Court was asked to rule on the constitutionality of the Montgomery law which Ms. Parks had defied and the court struck it down. 
   This powerful image, that of a hard working American ordered to the back of the bus, simply because of her race, was a catalytic event. It was the spark that caused a nation to stop accepting things as they had been and focused everyone on the fundamental issue--whether we could continue as a segregated society. As a result of the movement Ms. Parks helped start, today's Montgomery is very different from the Montgomery of Ms. Parks' youth. Today, the citizens of Montgomery look with a great deal of historical pride upon the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church. Today's Montgomery is home to the Southern Poverty Law Center, an organization devoted to the cause of civil rights and also the Civil Rights Memorial, a striking monument of black granite and cascading water which memorializes the individuals who gave their lives in the pursuit of equal justice. Today's Montgomery is a city in which its history as the ``Capital of the Confederacy'' and its history as the ``Birthplace of the Civil Rights Movement'' are both recognized, understood and reconciled. But Montgomery is not alone in this development. Many American cities owe the same debt of gratitude to Ms. Parks that Montgomery does. In fact, Ms. Parks' contributions 
   may extend beyond even the borders of our nation. In the book ``Bus Ride to Justice,'' Mr. Fred Gray, who gained fame while in his 20's as Ms. Parks' attorney in the bus desegregation case and as the lead attorney in many of Alabama's and the Nation's most important civil rights cases, wrote these words, and I don't think they are an exaggeration:  
   Little did we know that we had set in motion a force that would ripple throughout Alabama, the South, the nation, and even the world. But from the vantage point of almost 40 years later, there is a direct correlation between what we started in Montgomery and what has subsequently happened in China, eastern Europe, South Africa, and even more recently, in Russia. While it is inaccurate to say that we all sat down and deliberately planned a movement that would echo and reverberate around the world, we did work around the clock, planning strategy and creating an atmosphere that gave strength, courage, faith and hope to people of all races, creeds, colors and religions around the world. And it all started on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama, with Rosa Parks on December 1, 1955.  
   For her courage and her conviction, and for her role in changing Alabama, the South, the nation and the world for the better, our Nation owes thanks to Ms. Parks. I hope that this body will extend its thanks and recognition to her by awarding her the Congressional Gold Medal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Chief Justice and fellow Senators, I appreciate this proceeding. And I appreciate the process we have gone through. I hope my remarks will be in the spirit of deliberation, and that some of what I say will be of value to you. 
   If there was a mistake made in this case, it is that we have treated this more like a piece of legislation than a trial. It probably would have been better to have just allowed the House to  have a week or 8 days to present evidence and the other side present their evidence and then vote and we would have been out of here. As it is, we have been involved in the managing of it. And I have been impressed that together we have somehow gotten through it in a way that I think I can defend. It is marginal, but I think we have conducted a trial that I feel we can defend. 
   The impeachment came from the House so we have to have a trial and a vote, in my opinion. Judging on matters like this is not easy, but we all have had to do it. Juries make decisions like this every day. The President has to grant pardons and make appointments and remove appointments. Senators have to vote on nominations and so forth. I have had the adventure of appearing before Senators judging me on a previous occasion. And now I am in this body and the other day the Chief Justice declared that we were all a court, and I thought, ``My goodness, I am a Federal judge and a Senator, how much better can life get than that?'' 
   Now, someone suggested that this is a political trial. But the more we make it like a real trial, the better off we are going to be and the better the people are going to like it and the more they will respect it. Our responsibility is to find the facts, apply the Constitution, the law, and the Senate precedent to those facts. And precedent is important. We should follow it unless we clearly articulate a reason to change. Unless we do so we are failing in our duty. If we want to change our precedent, we obviously have that power. But we don't come at this with a blank slate since the 1700s and Federalist 65. We have had a lot of impeachments since then, and this Senate has established some precedent during that time. I think the dialogue between Madison and Mason suggests a somewhat different view of things than Federalist 65, in the mind of many. But I would just say to you we have had impeachment trials of Judges Claiborne, Nixon and HASTINGS since then. That is our precedent, in recent years, about what we believe are our laws and how they should be interpreted. 
   I would say this about the case. Others may see it differently. But with regard to the obstruction article, I might have a bit of a quibble with the way the case was presented. I think there was a lot of time and effort spent on trees and not enough on the plain forest. Let me just say to you why I believe the proof of obstruction of justice is so compelling, beyond a reasonable doubt, to a moral certainty. And that is, because the President received interrogatories, he got a subpoena to a deposition, and he knew his day was coming. He knew he was going to have to tell the truth or he was going to have to tell a lie, and it wasn't going away. 
   He tried to avoid the day. He went all the way to the Supreme Court to try to stop that case from going forward, and the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled ``No, you don't get special privileges. You have to go forward with the case.'' So, here he is having to do something. If he states he did not have a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky, if he files an answer to an interrogatory, which he did in December, in which he flatout stated that he had never had sex with a State or Federal employee in the last decade, that would be false. He filed such a false answer to a lawful interrogatory. 
   Then he is at a deposition, and what happens at the deposition? His attorney tries to keep him from being asked about Monica Lewinsky. They produce her affidavit and the attorney says that the President has seen that affidavit and had the opportunity to study it. The President testifies later in that deposition: It is ``absolutely true.'' That is when it all occurred, right there, and talking with Monica beforehand was critical because if she didn't confirm the lie he was going to tell he couldn't tell it. She wanted a job and the President got it for her. If they didn't submit the Lewinsky affidavit, the President was going to be asked those questions. If they talked about the gifts, the cat was going to be out of the bag. It is just that simple. The wrong occurred right there. 
   Then, when he left that deposition, he was worried. He called Betty Currie that night, right after that deposition, the same day, because he knew he had used her name and she was either going to have to back him up or he was in big trouble. So, he coached her. That is what it is all about. You can talk about the facts being anything you want to, but that is the core of this case and it is plain and it is simple for anybody to see who has eyes to see with, in my view. So I think that is a strong case. The question is whether or not, if you believe that happened, you want to remove him from office, and I would like to share a few thoughts on that. 
   Having been a professional prosecutor for 12 years as U.S. attorney, and I tried a lot of cases myself, I really have felt pain for Ken Starr. I had occasion to briefly get to know him. I knew that his reputation within the Department of Justice as Solicitor General was unsurpassed. He was given a responsibility by the Attorney General of the United States and a court panel to find out what the truth was. The President lied, resisted, attacked him, attacked anybody Mr. Starr dealt with, virtually, in seeking the truth. And Ken Starr gets blamed for that, and then 7 months later we find out that the President was lying all the time. He was lying all the time. And somehow this is Ken Starr's fault that he pursued the matter? I am sure he suspicioned the President was lying but it couldn't be proven until the dress appeared and then we finally got something like the truth. 
   Now, one of the most thunderous statements made by counsel--I am surprised it didn't make more news than it did--was the representation by White House counsel that judges hold office on good behavior. 
   Those of you who fight tenaciously for the independence of the judiciary, know that this is not the standard for removal of judges. The courts have gone through it in some detail. Law reviews have been written about it. Judge Harry T. Edwards, Court of Appeals for D.C. Circuit, wrote in a Michigan law review that:  
   Under article II, a judge is subject to impeachment and removal only upon conviction by the Senate of treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.  
   This is because he is a civil officer. The President, Vice President and Judges are civil officers of the United States. 
   There is only one standard for impeachment. 
   The Constitution is a marvelous document. We respect it. To do so, we must enforce it as it is written. It says that civil officers, judges are removed for only those offenses. There are no distinctions between the President and judges. Just because one official is elected and one is not elected, one's term is shorter, or there are more judges than Presidents--makes no difference--that is not what the Constitution says. They face the same standard for impeachment. 
   I really believe we are making a serious legal mistake if we suggest otherwise. If the standard is the same, then we have a problem, because we removed a bunch of judges for perjury. 
   Of course, a President gets elected, but the President holds office subject to the Constitution. One of the limitations on your office as an elected official is don't commit a high crime or misdemeanor and if you commit a high crime or misdemeanor, you are to be removed. I don't think there is a lot of give in this, frankly. 
   With regard to precedent, precedent is important because it helps us be objective, less political, less personal and do justice fairer. That is what the Anglo-American common law is all about. Judges have established precedent, and judges tend to follow that precedent unless there is a strong reason not to. This is important for the rule of law. 
   Perjury and its twin, obstruction of justice, do amount to impeachable crimes and our precedent in the Judge Nixon case proves that. I believe we set a good standard in that case, finding that perjury is a high crime, clearly, and we ought to stay with this standard. 
   Some have argued that the House Judiciary Committee on the President Nixon matter declared that tax evasion was not an impeachable offense because it was not directly related to one of the President's duties. I don't think that is clear at all. As a matter of fact, as I recall a few House Members and minority Members signed a statement to that effect. But let me ask you this, and think about this, if a minority on  the House Judiciary Committee voted on something, or Gerald Ford said something when he was in the House about impeachment, such is not precedent for the U.S. Senate. It is our precedent that counts. It is the precedent established by Judge HASTINGS, Judge Nixon, and Judge Claiborne that we ought to be concerned about. 
   I do not believe the Constitution says that the standard for removal is whether somebody is a danger to the Republic's future. The Constitution says if you commit bribery, treason, or other high crimes or misdemeanors, you are out, unless there are some mitigating circumstance somebody can find, but the test is not whether or not the official is going to continue to do the crime in the future. What if it is a one-time bribery that is never again going to happen. Mr. Ruff advocated the ``danger'' standard, and it really disturbed me because it is not in the Constitution. 
   If we were to reject the standard we use for judges for impeachment, I do believe that would mean a lowering of our standards. We will not be holding the President to the same standards we are holding the judges in this country, and I don't think the Constitution justifies a dual standard. 
   As a prosecutor who has been in the courtroom a lot, I am not as cynical as some have suggested today about the law. I have been in grand juries hundreds of times--thousands really. I have tried hundreds of cases. I have seen witnesses personally. I have been with them before they testified and have seen them agonize over their testimony. I know people who file their tax returns and pay more taxes than they want to, voluntarily, because they are men and women of integrity. I have seen it in grand juries. I have seen people cry because they did not want to tell the truth, but they told it. They filed motions to object to testifying, but when it came right down to it, they told the truth. 
   I believe truth is a serious thing. Truth is real and falsehood is real. This is, in my view, a created universe and we have a moral order and when we deny the truth we violate the moral order and bad things happen. Truth is one of the highest ideals of Western civilization commitment to it defines us as a people. As Senator KYL said, you will never have justice in a court of law if people don't tell the truth. 
   So this is a big deal with me. I have had that lecture with a lot of people who were about to testify. I believe we ought not to dismiss this lightly. 
   There was a poignant story about Dr. Battalino and her conviction for lying about a one-time sex act and the losses she suffered. Let me tell you this personal story, and I will finish. 
   I was U.S. attorney. The new police chief had come to Mobile. He was a strong and aggressive leader from Detroit. He was an African-American. He shook up the department, established community-based policing, and caused a lot of controversy. A group of police officers sued him. His driver, a young police officer, testified in a deposition that the chief had asked him to bug other police officers illegally. Not only that, he said, ``I've got a tape of the chief telling me to bug.'' 
   It leaked to the newspapers, all in the newspapers. They wanted to fire the chief. The FBI was called because it is illegal to bug somebody if there is not a consenting person in the room. 
   It is different with Linda Tripp. Let me just explain the law. If you can remember and testify to what you hear in conversation, you can record that conversation and play it later under law of virtually every State in America. Maryland apparently is different. 
   Here, the driver's action would be illegal. Anyway, the young officer finally, under pressure of the FBI, confessed. The lawsuit hadn't ended. The civil suit was still going on. He went back and changed his deposition and recanted. His lawyer came to me and said, ``Don't prosecute him, JEFF. He's sorry. He finally told the truth. He went back. The case wasn't over.'' 
   We prosecuted him. I felt like he had disrupted the city, caused great turmoil and violated his oath as a police officer, and that we could not just ignore that. The case was prosecuted. He was convicted, and it was affirmed on appeal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, the Constitution of the United States requires the Senate to convict and remove the President of the United States if it is proven that he has committed high crimes while in office. It has been proven beyond a reasonable doubt and to a moral certainty that President William Jefferson Clinton has persisted in a continuous pattern to lie and obstruct justice. The chief law officer of the land, whose oath of office calls on him to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution, crossed the line and failed to protect the law, and, in fact, attacked the law and the rights of a fellow citizen. Under our Constitution, such acts are high crimes and equal justice requires that he forfeit his office. For these reasons, I felt compelled to vote to convict and remove the President from office. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990222</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990222</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I am honored to join with the distinguished Senators who have been sponsoring and working for the passage of the bill that we believe will help our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines to increase their pay, their retirement benefits, and other benefits. They will know that this Nation affirms them, believes in them, and cares about them, and is not going to stand by and allow recruitment and retention to go in the tank and to not give them the kind of pay and benefits they have to have to live in this world. 
   We have taken advantage of them in many ways, and it is time to put an end to that. We have done a lot of things to reduce our defense structure. In 1992, we had 1.8 million men and women in the services. By the year 2000, we will be at 1.38 million. We will drop another 24 percent during this period of time. But we, at the same time, increased the pressures and responsibilities our service men and women are facing. They are being sent around the world at greater and greater rates. 
   The operational tempo--the OPTEMPO they call it--has never been higher. I had the opportunity recently to be with an Air Force officer in Montgomery, AL, at Maxwell Air Force Base. He told me he was in Bosnia and received orders to be stationed in Korea. He called his wife who was then in Montgomery and explained this situation to her, and she replied, ``Well, you can go to Korea, I'm going back to North Carolina.'' 
   These kinds of assignments may sound easy to people sitting in Washington, but it is important to families. They will do it. Our soldiers and sailors give of themselves and sacrifice on a regular basis, but they need to know we care about them, that we are willing to pay them a decent wage, that we are going to maintain good retirement benefits and health care benefits for them. 
   There has been a lack of confidence in that, and that, I believe, is one reason retention is down--that and a good economy; people have more choices. We have reduced our enlistment rates. It is harder and harder to enlist and most of the services are not meeting their enlistment rates now, their goals. 
   It is a matter of real importance. I salute Senator WAYNE ALLARD who chairs our Personnel Subcommittee on Armed Services for his leadership, and Senator JOHN WARNER, the chairman of the committee, who made this a top priority. We don't want to wait around with it. We want to pass it early this session, and we want to be able to send a message to the men and women who stand ready at any time to defend this Nation, to send them the message that we care about them, we are hearing their concerns, and we are going to respond to them. 
   I recently had a conversation with a senior retired officer. We were talking about the need to restore the 50-percent retirement. He said one of the concerns that he had and that he was hearing among our service men and women is that older NCO's --noncommissioned officers--are saying to younger NCO's, ``Well, I got a 50-percent retirement; sorry, you're not going to get that,'' and it makes them feel less appreciated. It makes them feel like they are not getting a fair shake, and it makes them more and more willing to give up a service that they may really love and enjoy and believe in and take a job in the private sector. 
   So I think there are a lot of reasons why changing this retirement benefit from 40 to 50 percent is what we need to do, and I salute Senator ALLARD for it. 
   I am also an absolutely committed supporter of the Federal Government's Thrift Plan. I think it is one of the best ideas that has been done for the men and women who work for the U.S. Government, and extending it to the military is a great idea. It should be done. They will make their contributions, in effect, to an IRA. 
   As years go by, they will see that fund--that is, their fund--increase and increase over the years. They will feel that that is an additional benefit, an additional basis to stay in the active service of their country in the military and not get out at an earlier time. 
   I think it is also terrible, really shameful, that we have allowed large numbers of our service men and women to have to ask for food stamps. They qualify for food stamps. That is something we must end. I believe this bill understood that, and it will end that and give them the opportunity to receive other compensations than having to go down to the food stamp office to ask for those benefits. I think we owe them that. 
   Finally, Madam President, let me just say this. I talked to a senior officer just today about the military and about this bill. He was extraordinarily supportive of it, but he told me this. He  said it is really more than just the money. Our people who make their career in the service of this country, who are prepared at any time to give their life for their country, those people, those men and women, are committed to public service. And what we need to do most of all is to affirm them and to raise up the respect we give to them. They are prepared, at a moment's notice, to go in harm's way for the people of this country. 
   So I believe this bill, in a way, does that. It is saying: We are hearing your concerns. We are going to move promptly. We are going to make this legislation one of the top priorities of this Congress. We are going to move it out of here quickly. And we are going to get a raise to you and retirement changes that will benefit you, that will end food stamps for you, and give you a Thrift Plan opportunity you have never had before. We are going to say we care about what you are doing. We thank you for your service. 
   I believe that is the kind of signal we need to send. It is not all. We have to deal with such things as spare parts, a national missile defense. We have to decide whether we have enough people in the military now. All these kinds of things we are going to be dealing with later on in the year. But right now we need to move with this legislation. 
   I thank the majority leader, TRENT LOTT, for being an early sponsor and supporter of it and for making a commitment to bring it up at an early time. And again, let me say how much I have been honored to serve with Senator WAYNE ALLARD. He chairs the subcommittee where this legislation has begun. He is doing an outstanding job for our Nation in so many different ways but particularly as chairman of this subcommittee. I am also pleased to see Senator LEVIN here. He is the ranking member of this committee and is committed to our Nation's strength and defenses. And it is a pleasure to see that this legislation is moving forward in an expeditious manner. 
   Thank you, Madam President. 
   Mr. ALLARD addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990128</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize Mr. Robert Schwinghamer on the occasion of his retirement for his significant contributions to our nation's space and rocket program. He served most recently within the office of the Director as the Associate Director, Technical, at NASA's George C. Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama. Bob Schwinghamer's legacy is one of outstanding leadership, unselfish professional service, and a steadfast dedication to America's space program. It is a personal honor for me to recognize the more than 40 years that Bob so willingly committed to our country. I salute the distinguished achievements of this remarkable Alabamian for what his service has meant to the State of Alabama, the Nation, and NASA. 
   Bob's splendid record of achievement speaks for itself. He has been the recipient of several NASA Outstanding Leadership and Distinguished Service Medals; the Presidential Rank Distinguished Executive Award from President George Bush in 1992; Top Engineer in NASA and one of the Top Ten Engineers in Federal Government in 1990 and 1992. He also received numerous Group Achievement and Sustained Superior Performance Awards. With an ebullient leadership style, Bob Schwinghamer also led NASA investigation teams through times of crisis. In 1973, he received the NASA Medal for Exceptional Service to the Apollo Program. In 1986, he led the Space Shuttle Challenger Accident Solid Rocket Motor Investigation Team. In 1998, he received the NASA Outstanding Leadership Medal for leadership in Returning the Space Shuttle Safely to Flight, and in 1990, he led the Space Shuttle Hydrogen Leak Investigation Team. His outstanding record of service and his unfailing loyalty to the U.S. space program cannot be paid its proper due with mere words. 
   Bob Schwinghamer received his Bachelor-of-Science Degree in Engineering from Purdue University in 1950 and then completed his Master of Science Degree in Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1968. During his notable career, he served as a registered professional engineer in the States of Indiana, Ohio, and Alabama. 
   Bob is a member of several highly regarded professional and honorary societies including the American Society for Materials, International; American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Society of Manufacturing Engineers, and the Society for Advancement of Materials and Processes Engineering. His devotion to the field of science has earned him continuing recognition throughout the space and missile community all over the country. 
   Mr. Schwinghamer's professional prowess and outstanding leadership are certainly noteworthy, but he also deserves recognition for being a devoted husband and father and an involved citizen. As an active member of his community, he has given his efforts to outside activities including service as Vice President of Grissom High School's PTA, President of the Lily Flagg Club, and President of the MSFC Skeet Club. He has and continues to inspire individuals in his workplace, community, and home. Bob's generosity and willingness to serve others is a trait which endears him to all of us. 
   It is with warmest regards and best wishes that I offer Robert J. Schwinghamer and his family every happiness in all of their future endeavors. It is right that we honor and celebrate his retirement. I salute Bob Schwinghamer as he embarks on the beginning of the next chapter of his life. Our nation's space program will have to replace one of its finest. His presence and expertise will certainly be missed.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleagues in introducing the ``Trade Fairness Act of 1999'' and thank Senator SPECTER for his hard work in crafting this legislation which will help alleviate the economic turmoil in our domestic steel industry caused by illegal dumping. 
   Recent trade data indicates that steel imports to the United States for the first ten months of 1998, ending in October, have reached an all time record of 34,628,000 tons. In contrast, imports to the United States in for the first ten months of 1997, which was itself a record year, equaled 26,708,000 tons. This represents a 30 percent increase. 
   The bill I am joining in cosponsoring with Senator SPECTER today will help make it easier for the President to enforce our existing trade laws in two ways; it will lower the threshold necessary for the President to take immediate action to stem the tide of illegal imports under section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 and it will create an ``Import Monitoring Program'' for steel, similar to the systems in place in both Mexico and Canada, to identify the country of origin, value and quantity of steel imports into the United States. 
   These actions are in line with the General Agreement on Tarriffs and Trade (GATT) and will not hinder free trade with our international trading partners. The bill will provide necessary information, critical in determining whether illegal trade practices are occurring. This provision will ensure the President can take immediate, decisive action when those practices are identified. 
   The men and women who work in the United States steel business are the most efficient and hardest working people in the world. Given a fair shake, our domestic steel producers have and can continue to compete with any of our international trading partners. Illegal dumping has forced America's steel industry into jeopardy. The jobs of thousands of steel workers in my home state of Alabama and across the Nation are threatened. Our steel workers and companies deserve the protection afforded to them by United States trade law and the rigorous enforcement of those laws by our President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss the concept of prepaid tuition plans and why they are critically important to America's families. 
   As a parent who has put two children through college and who has another currently enrolled in college, I know first-hand that America's families are struggling to meet the rising costs of higher education. In fact, American families have already accrued more college debt in the 1990's than during the previous three decades combined. 
   The reason is twofold: the federal government subsidizes student debt with interest rate breaks and penalizes educational savings by taxing the interest earned on those savings. 
   In recent years, however, many families have tackled rising tuition costs by taking advantage of pre-paid college tuition and savings plans. These plans allow families to purchase tuition credits years in advance. 
   Mr. President, 39 states, like my home state of Alabama, along with a nationwide consortium of more than 100 private schools, have established these tuition savings and prepaid tuition plans. These plans are extremely popular with parents, students, and alumni. They make it easier for families to save for college, while at the same time taking the uncertainty out of the future cost of college. 
   Congress has supported participating families by expanding the scope of the pre-paid tuition plans and by deferring the taxes on the interest earned until the student goes off to college. 
   Mr. President, today, I along with Senators BOB GRAHAM, CONNIE MACK, PAUL COVERDELL, SPENCER ABRAHAM, and THAD COCHRAN are introducing ``The Collegiate Learning and Student Savings (CLASS) Act'', a common sense piece of legislation which could help more than 30 million students afford a college education. 
   The CLASS Act will make the interest earned on all education pre-paid plans completely tax-free. 
   Currently, the interest earned by families saving for college is taxed twice. Families are taxed on the income when they earn it, and then again on the interest that accrues from the savings. 
   On the other hand, the federal government subsidizes student loans by deferring interest payments until after graduation. It is no wonder that families are going heavily into debt and at the same time are struggling to save for college. We strongly believe that this trend must no longer continue. 
   In order to provide families a new alternative, The CLASS Act will provide tax-free treatment to all pre-paid savings plans. 
   This bipartisan piece of legislation is sound education and tax policy that provides incentives for savings rather than bureaucratic solutions. For a small cost, the CLASS Act will provide billions in potential savings to help families afford a college education. 
   Mr. President, many individuals have questioned whether these plans will benefit all types of students. Let me say this, it is wrong to assume that tuition savings and prepaid plans benefit mainly the wealthy. In fact, the track record of existing state pre-paid plans indicates that working, middle-income families, not the rich, benefit the most from pre-paid plans. 
   For example, families with an annual income of less than $35,000 purchased 62 percent of the prepaid tuition contracts sold by the State of Pennsylvania in 1996. And the average monthly contribution to a family's college savings account during 1995 in Kentucky was $43. 
   Tax free treatment for prepaid tuition plans must become law. The federal government can no longer subsidize student debt with interest rate breaks and penalize educational savings by taxing the interest earned by families who are desperately trying to save for college. If these goals are achieved, the federal government would no longer be penalizing families for saving but rather be providing families with help they need to meet the cost of college through savings rather than through debt. 
   Mr. President, this legislation has received a tremendous amount of support from the colleges and universities, higher education associations, as well as several public policy think tanks. These include: The Career College Association, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, the American Council on Education, the State of Virginia's Prepaid Education Program, The Heritage Foundation and Citizens for a Sound Economy. 
   The idea of tax-free treatment for prepaid tuition plans has also been endorsed by the Washington Post, Time Magazine, and the Birmingham News. 
   Mr. President, in particular, I would like to call my colleagues attention to a September 25, 1998 Heritage Foundation report, authored by Rea Hederman, a Research Analyst in the Domestic Policy Department at Heritage. This shows that over 30 million children stand to benefit from expanded education savings accounts and tuition prepayment plans. I'd encourage my colleagues to review the Heritage report, which breaks down these numbers by both State and Congressional district. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, today I join my colleagues, Senators, MURKOWSKI and LANDRIEU in introducing the bipartisan ``Conservation and Re-Investment Act of 1999''. The Conservation and Re-Investment Act will serve to provide dedicated funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, wildlife enhancement programs and urban parks development by redirecting a portions of the royalty revenues derived from Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas production. In addition, this bill will redirect a portion of Outer Continental Shelf royalties directly back to coastal states which have been impacted by Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas production in order to assist those states in restoring and preserving air quality, water quality, wetlands, estuaries and other coastal resources and environments impacted by Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas production. 
   This bill will allow coastal states to create trust funds, the revenues of which can be used in perpetuity for such purposes as environmental protection, conservation, water quality and public land purchases. Recognizing the boom and bust nature of oil and gas production, Alabama long ago created a protected trust fund from the oil and gas royalties it receives from development off its' coast. The revenues derived from the investment this fund have been used by the state to fund popular wildlife conservation programs and the state's ``Forever Wild'' program. These programs have permitted the state to make land purchases to create and expand Alabama's park system and to help create additional outdoor recreation opportunities for its citizens. It is my hope that this bill will create the conduit for other states and the federal government to follow the example set by my home state of Alabama. While the revenues derived from this fund will be limited to the goals of the Conservation and Re-Investment Act, a prudent coastal state must consider this option to guard against the boom and bust nature of the oil and gas business. 
   Mr. President, this bill will go a long way towards protecting the environment and increasing conservation in coastal states and the entire nation by creating a dedicated funding mechanism to fulfill these goals. We, along with future generations, will benefit greatly from this legislation. I look forward to working with my colleagues  to craft a bill which can continue to enjoy bi-partisan support and be passed into law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 12 submitted earlier today by Senator LOTT. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 13 submitted earlier today by Senator LOTT. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 14, submitted earlier today by the Democratic leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and that the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 15, submitted earlier today by the Democratic leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-2-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and that the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until the hour of 12:30 p.m. on Friday, January 8. I further ask unanimous consent that on Friday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for the two leaders be reserved and that there then be a period for morning business for statements only until 1 p.m., with the time equally divided between the majority and the minority leaders or their designees. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. and begin a period for morning business until 1 p.m. Following morning business, it is expected that the Senate will resume sitting as a Court of Impeachment. It is also expected that at 1 p.m. an agreement may be reached with respect to the pending impeachment trial. A rollcall vote is therefore expected at approximately 1 p.m. tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-sessions-al-1-19990107</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, if there be no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 8:11 p.m., adjourned until Friday, January 8, 1999, at 12:30 p.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

