<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, will the Senator from New Jersey yield to me for a question of him? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. First of all, I thank the Senator from New Jersey for his advocacy and his strong and heartfelt support about the need for a viable railway system in the Northeast and around America. There has been no one in this body who has been more committed to that proposition than the Senator from New Jersey. I congratulate him. As I said before, we will miss him very much in this body. 
   I would like to make one additional comment, if I may, to the Senator from New Jersey. 
   We will go through a regular process next year to bring up an authorization bill for Amtrak which would then be followed by appropriations. 
   I objected to an appropriation this year because it was $10 billion over 10 years stuck into an appropriations bill for which there had never been a hearing. I hope the Senator from New Jersey can understand that. 
   The second point is, I urge the Senator from New Jersey to consider that we have to make a fundamental choice about the national rail system in America--not just an east coast rail system but a national rail system. 
   There are many countries in the world, including European countries, that regularly subsidize their railway systems. I understand that. I don't dispute it. Perhaps that decision has to be made in the United States of America and in the Congress of the United States with the cooperation of the administration. 
   I remind the Senator from New Jersey that a few short years ago the decision was made to make Amtrak completely independent. Maybe that was not a wise decision. 
   Last year, Amtrak lost, I think, 900 million and some dollars, and will lose another $900 million, or so. 
   I think we need to make a fundamental decision: Is it a high enough national priority? 
   I am not prepared to make a decision yet that the taxpayers of America should subsidize a rail system for America. I think the Senator from New Jersey would agree with me that the west coast needs one probably almost as much as the east coast does. 
   We need to make a fundamental decision about what the Government's role will be in a national railway system, and then we need to decide to what degree it is subsidized. 
   I think a strong argument can be made by anyone who has tried to fly to Newark, or to LaGuardia, or Kennedy lately that they recognize the difficulties in relying simply on air transportation. I think an argument can be made. But I think it deserves full debate and discussion. 
   I thank the Senator from New Jersey. I understand his disappointment on this issue. But I would like to make a personal commitment that his spirit will live on, and we will fully examine and fully ventilate this issue and try to come up with a proposal that will satisfy the needs of his constituents and Americans all over this country. Again, I say that with profound admiration and respect for the Senator from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001215</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, 70 days and 20 continuing resolutions after what was supposed to be our October 6 adjournment date, the 106th Congress is coming to an end. Let us hope the upcoming New Year brings with it a renewed spirit of bipartisan cooperation. 
   This year, such cooperation took a back seat to partisan bickering and ill-advised parliamentary tactics that had the effect of further polarizing this body. How many mornings did Americans awake to newspaper headlines reporting that Congress and the president still, weeks and months after we were to adjourn, had not finished their work? 
   There are many good provisions in the legislation soon to be sent to the President and I want to thank all those who put in long hours to bring this Congress to a close. I am particularly supportive of the Medicare changes that will strengthen the quality of health care for our seniors. 
   In 1997, Congress made some difficult, but necessary, changes in the financial structure of the Medicare system as part of the Balanced Budget Act. These changes were needed to preserve and protect the system and delay its impending bankruptcy from 2001 until 2015, while also increasing choice and expanding benefits for beneficiaries. 
   Despite the changes, there has been increasing concern that certain reimbursement reductions and caps contained in the Budget Act are resulting in access problems for our seniors. Personally, I have grown concerned about the potentially negative impact on the delivery of health care in our rural communities and for our most frail elderly if we do not make certain adjustments. 
   I am also pleased this legislation addresses many of the concerns raised by my constituents and the Arizona health care community. This proposal improves senior health care by increasing access to critical preventative benefits--including bi-annual pap smear screenings and pelvic exams, glaucoma screenings, colon cancer screening, and medical nutrition therapy for patients with diabetes and renal disease. Rural hospitals are strengthened by updating reimbursement policies and increasing access for seniors to emergency and ambulatory services in rural areas. And this legislation significantly lowers co-payments for out-patient hospital visits.  
   I am also pleased that Native Americans will not be overlooked in this legislative package, but instead will receive an economic boost through equitable treatment of tribal governments for unemployment tax purposes, a change to the tax law that I have been advocating for nearly a decade. An important stimulus to economic development in Indian country is to provide employment tax credits and incentives, including unemployment compensation benefits. This change to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, FUTA, will correct an uneven interpretation in the tax law by finally including tribal employees in the Nation's comprehensive unemployment benefit system. 
   Unfortunately, I must oppose this legislation for a variety of reason. Once again, I must object to the pork barrel spending in this year-end legislative package and in all of the appropriations bills that have become law. Regrettably, the process that got us to this point led to what a New York Times headline aptly characterized as ``The Politics of the Surplus.'' In other words, we paved our way home by spending billions of taxpayers' dollars on budget items that never went through a merit-based review process. 
   In the run-up to this final agreement, over $24 billion in pork barrel spending (a list of this spending may be found on my Senate Web site) was doled out and that figure will surely climb once we get a good look at the bills before us. Mr. President, our appetite for pork barrel spending was so large this year, in fact, that NBC News highlighted our feast on their Nightly News segment, ``The Fleecing of America.'' 
   Who among us will ever forget the 1.5 million taxpayer dollars we have already approved to restore ``a 56-foot iron rendition of the Roman god of fire and metalworking, Vulcan''? 
   Or the $1.5 million for sunflower research? 
   Or the $400,000 for the Southside Sportsman Club? 
   Or the $250,000 to develop improved varieties of potatoes''? 
   Or the $100,000 for the ``Trees Forever Program"? 
   Or the $176,000 for the Reindeer Herders Association? 
   Or Or the $5 million for insect rearing? 
   But, there is more to come in this year-end budget deal, which has at least $1.9 billion in pork. For instance, in the Conference Report for the Commerce, State, and Justice Appropriations bill, some examples of earmarks having never undergone the appropriate merit-review process include: $3 million for Red Snapper research, $1 million for Hawaiian coral reef monitoring, $500,000 for the California Ozone study, $200,000 for the Kotzebue Sound test fishery for king crab and sea snail, $600,000 for fall chinook rearing for the Columbia River hatcheries program, $750,000 for bottle-nosed dolphins, 
   $3,338,000 for sea turtles, $1 million for winter pollack survey in Alaska, $1 million for the implementation of the National Height Modernization, NHM, system in North Carolina, $300,000 for research on the Charleston bump, and $150,000 for lobster sampling.  
   The pork barrel spending adds up. Look at the numbers. 
   Last spring, Republicans outlined our spending plans calling for about $600 billion in so-called discretionary spending--that is, spending on programs other than Social Security, Medicare, and interest on our $5.7 trillion debt. The President's budget requested about $623 billion in discretionary spending. We'll end up spending in the neighborhood of $650 billion--some $100 billion over the discretionary spending caps set by the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. 
   According to Robert Reischauer, former head of the Congressional Budget Office, this will be the third year in a row in which the budget, excluding Social Security, ``has been in surplus.'' The last time this happened, Reischauer says, was over 70 years ago. This is why I believe, Mr. President, we should take advantage of our robust economy and make significantly paying down our national debt one of our top priorities. 
   I must also once again express my disappointment over the narrow scope of the immigration provisions contained in this bill. I support the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, LIFA. Negotiations between the White House and the leadership, which endorsed more limited immigration reform, have resulted in a compromise that makes progress but falls far short of the Fairness provisions we never had a chance to vote on. 
   In particular, this bill makes meaningful but insufficient progress on amnesty for those wrongly denied it, and does not address legitimate concerns about Central American refugee parity. Fortunately, negotiators have agreed to temporarily restore Section 245(i), which allows immigrants with family or employer sponsors to adjust their status in the United States, rather than return to their countries of origin and face the threat of 10 years of separation from family and work in the United States before returning. This bill also contains important provisions encouraging family unification through the creation of several new visa categories. That said, it will fall to supporters of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act in the 107th Congress to advance that bill's intent to allow long-term residents who have developed deep roots in our country and contributed to our economy for many years to remain legally, and to establish parity for Central American and other refugees not afforded the same status as refugees from other, similarly troubled countries. I am sorry we could not have better addressed these concerns in this bill, but I appreciate the progress we are making and hope that we can take up these issues during the 107th Congress. 
   I remain optimistic, Mr. President, that we will be able to work together in the 107th Congress to accomplish great things. 
   We all should be proud of the recent election. Obviously, it wasn't perfect. Democracy never is. Yet, major issues important to all Americans were discussed and debated. In fact, a post-election survey by Pew Charitable Trusts found that a high percentage of voters believed there was ``more discussion of issues than four years ago.'' And 83 percent of voters said they learned enough ``to make an informed choice.'' 
   No doubt voters have different opinions on how we should deal with these issues. But, they did not disagree on which issues need to be tackled by Congress and our President. 
   In national pre-election polls, Americans consistently ranked Social Security, health care, and education among the issues they worry most about. But they also know that little gets done because too much special-interest money is infecting our political process, resulting in the kind of gridlock we have witnessed over the last year. A Newsweek poll found nearly 60 percent of Americans agreeing with the statement that political contributions have ``too much influence on elections and government policy.'' Only ten percent disagreed. 
   The way we do business must change. 
   If we have the will, we can begin to repair Americans' cynical perception of our government by working together, in bipartisan fashion, on campaign finance reform, a real Patient's Bill of Rights, Social Security reform, and badly needed reform of the tax system. 
   We must also do our work in the open with due process and appropriate discussion. 
   This is why, I must also object to a provision inserted by Senator INOUYE, who has once again gone to great lengths to provide protectionist legislation to the lone U.S. operator of large cruise ships in Hawaii. In the 106th's closing hours, the Senator has had a legislative provision inserted in the final appropriations measure that will prohibit any cruise ship operator from allowing gaming on board any vessel that departs from and returns to Hawaii. This provides American Classic Voyages with the protection they need to keep other cruise operators who depend on gaming to attract passengers and provide an additional revenue stream from entering the Hawaii market and prohibit other vessels currently departing from other U.S. port cities from sailing among the Hawaiian islands. In the end, the American consumer is the loser. 
   While Hawaii law currently prohibits any gaming within the state, including its waters, U.S., state, and international law allows gaming on vessels more than three miles from shore. I have no argument against Hawaii's gambling prohibition. But the amendment authored by 
   Senator INOUYE is aimed at keeping planed operations by international cruise operators out of Hawaii and preserving the monopoly  created for American Classic Voyages as part of special interest legislation he sponsored and which became law in 1998. The language will result in fewer large cruise ship operators serving the Hawaiian Islands and drastically restricting consumer choice for cruise vacations in Hawaii. 
   What is most amazing is this measure, like so many others in this bill, was never discussed publicly, with the administration, or with any Committee of jurisdiction in Congress. This type of closed door, special interest legislation should concern every Member. To deny the American public the freedom of choice in cruising vacations and restrict international trade without one moment of debate is very troubling. 
   In light of this and other such inappropriate legislating, we must enact institutional reforms to put an end to the rampant abuse of the budget process. 
   If we are to hold any hope for reforming the budgetary process in this body, fundamental changes to the rules governing the appropriations process must be made. The two Rules of the Senate designed to impose discipline on the appropriations process are Rule 16, and Rule 28. Rule 16 is designed to block legislative riders on appropriations bills coming out of Committee, and Rule 28 is designed to accomplish the same goal on Conference Reports. Unfortunately, due to the fact that Rule 16 points of order only require a simple majority to over-rule the Chair, it has proven ineffective in stripping riders. And, as we all know, Rule 28 is effectively moot at this point. 
   As such, when the Senate reconvenes next year, it is my intention to offer an amendment to the Rules of the Senate designed to toughen Rule 16, and to reaffirm and toughen Rule 28. This amendment would do the following: 
   Rule 16 would be modified to require a three-fifths vote to over-rule a point of order against a legislative item inserted into a general appropriations bill by the appropriations committee. Further, a single point of order may be raised against each legislative item, and each point of order would be debatable and subject to a roll call vote. 
   Rule 28 would be modified, blocking Conferees to a general appropriations bill from inserting in their Report any matter not committed to them by either House, or striking from the bill matter agreed to by both Houses. Conferees to a general appropriations bill would be prohibited from increasing an appropriation for any item committed to them by either House to a level exceeding the highest appropriated level for such item presented to them by either House, and reducing an appropriated level for any item committed to them below the lowest appropriated level for such item committed to them by either House. 
   Further, Conferees to a general appropriations bill would be restricted from modifying any item committed to them by either House where such modification is not germane to the item being modified. In any case, no matter may be inserted into the Report that is not germane to the general appropriations bill committed to the Conferees. 
   The result of these changes would be to impose a strict ``scope of conference'' rule on appropriations Conferees. 
   A point of order may be made by any Senator against any general appropriations bill Conference Report for any violation of the restrictions set forth by this rule. In such cases where a single restriction has been violated more than once within a Conference Report, or where more than one restriction has been violated within a single Conference Report, each violation may be treated individually, and may be subject to a specific point of order. In the event that a single, or multiple points of order, are made against a general appropriations bill Conference Report for reasons set forth under these new restrictions, a three-fifths vote of the Senate is required to over-rule the Chair. Each appeal of the ruling of the Chair of each respective point of order is debatable and must be voted on separately. 
   Mr. President, before I end, I want to wish everyone a happy holiday season and New Year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001101</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I oppose H.R. 4986, the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act of 2000. Unfortunately, this legislation is an example of corporate welfare. Further, it does not adequately change the old Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) program to prevent disputes with the European Union. 
   I am concerned that this legislation is an example of the costly corporate welfare that cripples our ability to respond to truly urgent social needs such as health care, education, and national security. The FSC benefits many major U.S. corporations, including General Electric, Boeing, Motorola, Caterpillar, Allied Signal, and Cisco Systems. In addition, the FSC also helps foreign firms, like Rolls Royce, that have plants located in America. However, few of these benefits actually trickle down to help the American worker. Instead, as the Congressional Budget Office points out, ``many FSCs are largely paper corporations with very few employees.'' On February 24, 2000, the Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization upheld a decision that this provision is an export subsidy and violates our WTO obligations. 
   This pending legislation is the third version of an export subsidy that was first introduced as the Domestic International Sales Corporation provision in the Revenue Act of 1971. However, this version of the bill does little to change the effects of the FSC, and actually makes it a bigger corporate giveaway. This legislation technically eliminates the FSC, but then replaces it with a new extraterritorial tax system that essentially maintains the current subsidy. In addition, this new scheme expands the subsidy to include full benefits for defense contractors and extends benefits to agricultural cooperatives. In order to meet WTO concerns, this legislation also allows foreign firms greater ability to utilize the FSC. The total cost of rewriting and expanding the FSC subsidy will cost the American taxpayers $42 billion between 2001 and 2010--all of which will come out of the surplus. 
   There is also extensive evidence that this export subsidy does not work very well. In a recent report, the Congressional Research Service states that the FSC increased the quantity of U.S. exports by a range of two-tenths of one percent to four-tenths of one percent. This report also states that ``traditional economic analysis indicates that FSC reduces overall U.S. economic welfare.'' The CBO agrees that ``export subsidies, such as FSCs, reduce global economic welfare and typically even reduce the welfare of the country granting the subsidy, even though domestic export-producing industries benefit.'' CBO also points out that FSCs increase both imports and exports, due to the effects of export subsidies on foreign exchange rates. This ``beggar-thy-neighbor'' effect will actually cause U.S. domestic companies in import-competing industries to reduce domestic investment and employment. 
   Finally, there is no assurance that this system actually fixes the problem. The European Union has agreed to wait until November, before announcing a $4 billion list of retaliatory tariffs against the FSC subsidy. However, they have not agreed to the actual changes in this legislation. The EU still has concerns about provisions in this legislation that grandfather the FSC, and they intend to have it reviewed by the WTO. It is fair to expect that we will end up debating this issue again within the next two years. It makes more sense for the Senate to eliminate the FSC completely in line with our obligations to the WTO. 
   Mr. President, our country is now in a position where we can begin paying down the national debt. Every American shoulders somewhere in the range of $19,000 in federal debt, because of the fiscal irresponsibility of their elected officials. I would like to make it clear that I remain a staunch supporter of free trade and open markets. However, if we intend to support a free trade regime that helps American consumers and taxpayers, we must not continue our policy of giving large corporations and special interests giant export subsidies. 
   This FSC legislation is simply an unnecessary federal subsidy that does not provide a fair return to the taxpayers who bear the heavy burden of its cost. I urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation, and instead examine the prospect of completely eliminating the FSC subsidy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I want to thank the managers of this bill for their hard work in putting forth annual legislation which provides federal funding for numerous vital programs. 
   This bill provides funding for fighting crime, enhancing drug enforcement, and responding to threats of terrorism. It further funds the operation of the District of Columbia, addresses some of the shortcomings of the immigration process, funds the operation of the judicial system, facilitates commerce throughout the United States, and fulfills the needs of the State Department and various other agencies. 
   Unfortunately, for the second time in a month, I must express my dismay over the process whereby the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act (LIFA) has been considered by this Congress. Like many Americans who believe policies that reflect compassion and family values should apply to immigrants and U.S. citizens alike, I welcome inclusion of the Legal Immigration Family Equity (LIFE) Act in this bill. But I had hoped that this legislation would supplement, rather than substitute for, the Fairness bill, which is far broader. I am disappointed that members of my party refused to include LIFA in this bill. As a consequence, hundreds of thousands of hard-working, tax-paying members of our society will be denied the amnesty, parity, and family-unification protections of LIFA. I will continue to work for passage of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act and trust that, next year, we can pass it on the Senate floor. 
   Regretfully, I must oppose this measure. 
   There are hundreds of millions of dollars in pork-barrel spending and the legislative riders that are riddled throughout this bill. The multitude of unrequested earmarks buried in this measure will undoubtedly further burden the American taxpayers. While the amounts associated with each individual earmark may not seem extravagant, taken together, they represent a serious diversion of taxpayers' hard-earned dollars at the expense of numerous programs that have undergone the appropriate merit-based selection process. 
   For example, under funding for the Department of Justice, some examples  of earmarks include: $130,000 to Jackson City, Mississippi, for public safety and automated technologies related to law enforcement; $2 million for the Alaska Native Justice Center; $15 million for an education and development initiative to promote criminal justice excellence at Eastern Kentucky University in conjunction with the University of Kentucky; and $4 million for the West Virginia University Forensic Identification program. 
   Under funding for the Department of Commerce, some of the earmarks include: $500,000 for the International Pacific Research Center at the University of Hawaii; $855,000 for weather radio transmitters in Kentucky; $2.5 million for the Center for Spatial Data Research at Jackson State University; $500,000 for the South Carolina Geodetic Survey; and $500,000 for the California Ozone Study. 
   And the list of questionable spending goes on with even more funding for the 2002 Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City, Utah. For example: $3 million for the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command to implement the public safety master plan for the Olympics; $5 million for the Utah Communication Agency Network for enhancements and upgrades of security and communication infrastructure to assist with law enforcement needs of the Olympics; and $590,000 for the NOAA Cooperative Institute for Regional Prediction at the University of Utah to implement data collection and automated weather station installation in preparation for the Olympics. 
   There are many more projects on the list that I have compiled, which will be available on my Senate Website. 
   I also want to address the legislative riders in this bill. In particular, I want to express my disappointment that legislation restricting low-power FM services has been added behind closed doors to this appropriations conference report. The addition of this rider illustrates, once again, how the special interests of a few are allowed to dominate the voices of the many in the back-door dealings of the appropriations process. 
   Low-power FM radio service provides community-based organizations, churches and other non-profit groups with a new, affordable opportunity to reach out to the public, helping to promote a greater awareness within our communities. Low-power FM is supported by the U.S. conference of Mayors, the National League of Cities, the Consumers' Union and many religious 
   organizations, including the U.S. Catholic Conference and the United Church of Christ. These institutions support low-power FM because they see what low-power FM's opponents also know to be true--that these stations will make more programming available to the public, and provide outlets for news and perspectives not currently featured on local radio stations. 
   But, the special interests opposed to low-power FM--most notably the National Association of Broadcasters and National Public Radio--have mounted a vigorous behind-the-scenes campaign against this service. Their stated objection to this service is potential interference, of course, not potential competition. They claim that a 10 or 100 watt low power station that can only broadcast a few miles will ``bleed into'' and overpower the signal of nearby 100,000 watt full-power radio stations that broadcast about 70 miles. Interestingly, the FCC, the expert government agency that evaluates such radio interference claims, does not share this claimed concern. To the contrary, after developing an extensive record and evaluating these alleged technical concerns, the FCC proceeded with licensing and established procedures to address any interference issues that actually arose. 
   Moreover, competitors' speculations about potential interference from low-power stations were given a fair hearing not only in the FCC, but also in this Congress. Earlier this year, Senator KERRY and I introduced the Low Power FM Radio Act of 2000, which would have struck a fair balance between allowing low-power radio stations to go forward while at the same time protecting existing full-power stations from actual interference. Under our bill, low-power stations causing interference would be required to stop causing interference--or be shut down--but non-interfering low power FM stations would be allowed to operate without further delay. The opponents of low-power FM did not support this bill because they want low-power FM to be dead rather than functional. 
   Congress should not permit the appropriations process to circumvent the normal legislative process. Every time we do this, the American people lose more faith in us. And in this context, they will become even more cynical when they learn that special interests like the NAB were able to use the appropriations process to highjack and overturn the sound technical decisions by the government radio experts that would have authorized new outlets for religious and political speech--and new outlets for their local churches and community groups. 
   Low-power FM is an opportunity for minorities, churches and others to have a new voice in radio broadcasting. In the Commerce Committee, we constantly lament the fact that minorities, community-based organizations, and religious organizations do not have adequate opportunities to communicate their views. Over the years, I have often heard many members of both the Committee and this Senate lament the enormous consolidation that has occurred in the telecommunications sector as a whole and the radio industry specifically. Here, we had a chance to get out of the way, and allow non-interfering low-power radio stations to go forward to combat these concerns. Instead, we let special interests hide their competitive fears behind the smokescreen of hypothetical interference to severely wound--if not kill--this service in the dead of night. 
   This report also contains legislation establishing a rural loan guarantee program intended to help bring broadcast signals to the most remote areas in this country. While I support this legislation, and I commend my friend, Senator BURNS, for his leadership in this area, there is one aspect of this legislation that still causes me concern. 
   This legislation would let incumbent cable monopolies qualify for U.S. taxpayer subsidized loans in the name of ``technology neutrality.'' Unfortunately, this approach will fail to achieve any real ``technology neutrality'' while simultaneously expanding a limited loan guaranty program into an unnecessary corporate welfare program. 
   In a perfect world, a loan guaranty program would be equally available to every competing industry segment because this would ensure that no industry segment would benefit from a government-sanctioned advantage in the marketplace. 
   Unfortunately, telecommunications law has already departed so significantly from principles of ``technology neutrality'' that ``neutrality'' in the narrow field of taxpayer-subsidized loan guaranties will only increase the cost of the program for the benefit of previously favored technologies. Indeed, my experience has shown that in telecommunications technological neutrality has been sacrificed by a misplaced focus on protecting competitors at the expense of competition and the American consumer. For example, the broadcast industry has been given 70 billion dollars of free spectrum, yet the wireless industry must compete for spectrum at auction. And certain industry sectors, such as cable, have been given government-franchised monopolies. In the telecommunications world, some are already more equal than others. 
   It is against this reality that any claims of ``technological neutrality'' must be evaluated. In the real world, cable companies not only have a government-sanctioned advantage--they have a government-franchised monopoly. Monopolists, almost by definition, need no more government protection against competition. Perhaps it is just a coincidence, and not due to a lack of competition, but cable companies have been able to raise their rates approximately three times the rate of inflation (for about a 30 percent total increase) since the 1996 Telecommunications Act. This scenario hardly requires the helping hand of the U.S. taxpayer. 
   ``Technology neutrality'' is a fine phrase, but not if it means that the American taxpayers must further subsidize industries that have already received undue and unnecessary market advantages sanctioned by the government.  
   In closing, I urge my colleagues to curb our habit of directing hard-earned taxpayer dollars to locality-specific special interests and our inclusion of legislative riders which thwart the very process that is needed to ensure our laws address the concerns and interests of all Americans, not just a few who seek special protection or advantage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote and I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to read some headlines from newspapers across the United States commenting on our work:  
   ``Congress' Pork Roast'' The News and Observer (Raleigh, NC) 
   ``Imaginary Numbers Game: Congress Pork-Barrel Is Eroding The Surplus'' The Record (Bergen County, NJ) 
   ``Congress Rolls Out The Pork-Barrel Election, Surplus Bring Free Spending'' The Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville) 
   ``Costly Delay: Politics Prompts Capitol Hill Feeding Frenzy'' Telegram & Gazette (Worcester, MA) 
   ``Bellying Up To A Pork Barrel'' The Christian Science Monitor 
   ``Dollars Flying In Congress' Flurry Of Final Spending'' USA Today 
   ``Congress Has Last-Minute Pork Feast'' Chattanooga Times 
   ``Spending Bill Fat With Pork: Both Parties Engaged In Budget-Busting Spree'' The Houston Chronicle  
   I am saddened by these headlines because of the damage such words do to the reputation of our governmental institutions. But I am also angered by them. 
   Why? Because we are deliberately, of our own free will, spending the surplus and jeopardizing future prosperity. 
   With this year-end spending blitz, Congress and the President have blown away the last remaining vestiges of fiscal discipline that, for a brief, very brief moment in time, had put the brakes on the spending frenzies that all too often engulfed our Capitol and contributed to our huge national debt, which stands today at $5.7 trillion. 
   Tens of billions in pork barrel and special interest spending have been packed into these appropriations bills, as well as numerous provisions pushed by Capitol Hill lobbyists that the American public will not know about until after these bills become law. In fact, Dan Morgan of the Washington Post aptly characterized this well-coordinated, last minute lobbying offensive as ``high noon at Gucci Gulch.'' 
   I regard such a spectacle as demeaning to our Government. 
   U.S. News & World Report, October 23, 2000:  
   Nearly two weeks past its promised departure date, Congress remains in Washington, locked in a standoff with the White House and mired in its own disarray over the Federal budget. And as the dealing crackles up and down Pennsylvania Avenue and across the Capitol Rotunda, the shenanigans are going to cost a staggering amount of money. By some estimates, if the spending increases continue at the current pace--nearly twice the rate of inflation--the non-Social Security surplus could be eliminated in less than 5 years. * * * * *  
   Feast day. The $650 billion figure must be stacked against the famed 1997 balanced budget deal. Under that agreement, the government was supposed to spend $541 billion in discretionary dollars this year. They should miss the mark by a mere $100 billion or so. The Republicans will outspend their own budget resolution passed this spring by about $50 billion. Election-year politics, an irrepressible instinct for pork, and a unique moment of plenty have combined to create a kind of fiscal third-base coach waving everybody home to score whatever spending project his heart desires * * * * * 
   The spending comes in big chunks and small. In Alaska, thanks to Senate Appropriations Chairman Ted Stevens, taxpayers will spend $176,000 to help the Reindeer Herders Association. Stevens set aside a total of $43 million for other Alaska transportation projects. Alabamians may be forever grateful for the $1.5 million set aside to help restore the venerable Vulcan statue in Birmingham, a 56-foot, iron rendition of the Roman god of fire and metalwork. Built as an entry for the 1904 World's Fair, it won the grand prize in the Palace of Metallurgy. Stewart Dansby, executive director of the Vulcan Park Foundation, says officials at the organization talked to Alabama Sen. Richard Shelby about helping to fund the renovation. ``Why are federal tax dollars being spent on a statue in Birmingham?'' asks Dansby. ``Because Vulcan is symbolic of American industrial strength. He represents the working person and . . . . These are federal dollars that would have gone somewhere.'' 
   There is ample evidence of that. The huge surpluses projected over the next decade--$268 billion next year--may have forever changed politics in Washington. The result is a kind of giddiness. ``The surplus is burning a hole in our pocket. It is affecting our judgment,'' says Republican Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas * * * * * 
   Senators from both sides of the aisle have been treating themselves to hundreds of spending programs of peculiar, and perhaps dubious, value. Examples: 
   Harry Reid has secured more than $14 million for five projects in Nevada, including $2 million to enable airline passengers to get boarding passes at their hotels. 
   Who I see here.  
   Tom Harkin added more than $7 million to next year's Agriculture bill to fund ``integrated cow resources management and agriculture-based industrial lubricants research.''  
   Perhaps Senator Harkin can enlighten us on that.  
   Robert Byrd has earmarked $5.25 million for a new dorm at the National Conservation Training Center in Shepherdstown, a facility run by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
   Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), the appropriator in chief, scored $400,000 for a parking lot in Talkeetna--a slice of the $43 million in special projects he pulled out of the Transportation bill. 
   Pete Domenici a nominal budget hawk, claims that the $200,000 he got for a railroad museum in Las Cruces ``could improve transportation for the entire nation.'' 
   Richard Shelby opposed Federal involvement in peanut allergy research in 1998, but he has secured $500,000 for the same in fiscal year 2001.  
   Mr. President, I have included the top 10 list on several occasions. One of my favorites was insect rearing, bug raising for fun and profit. There are many others that my colleagues may be entertained by, but also American taxpayers may be somewhat disturbed by. 
   The Washington Post, Eric Pianan, October 25:  
   Rules created more than two decades ago to impose fiscal restraint on Congress have broken down, helping fuel a year-end spending spree that is resulting in billions of extra dollars for highways and bridges, water projects, emergency farm aid, school construction and scores of other projects. 
   Many budget hawks have derided the binge as a typical election year ``porkfest.'' But key lawmakers and experts on federal budgeting say another less visible problem is that the law aimed at reining in such spending has been effectively gutted by the congressional leadership. 
   In particular, lawmakers are increasingly ignoring the annual congressional budget resolution, the document that is supposed to guide spending and tax decisions in the House and Senate every year. In years past, lawmakers might miss their budget targets by a few billion dollars, but now they are busting the budget by as much as $50 billion this year. 
   This year's budget resolution, for instance, called for about $600 billion in spending this fiscal year on defense, health, education, and other non-entitlement programs. When Congress and the White House finally complete their negotiations ..... the total will be $640 billion or more. ..... 
   The decision to ignore the budget resolution is only one sign of a general breakdown of fiscal discipline on Capitol Hill, according to fiscal experts. Congress and the Clinton administration are also ignoring spending caps, both agreed to as a part of the 1997 legislation to balance the federal budget. 
   Congress's enthusiasm for real budget constraints began to wane almost as soon as deficits gave way to surpluses beginning three years ago. Until then, the specter of towering annual deficits of as much as $290 billion had fostered a series of hard-nosed policies, including a 1990 budget deal that for the first time imposed caps on spending and required Congress to offset tax cuts by reducing spending or raising other revenues. 
   The emergence of surpluses has left it to lawmakers to produce budget plans that would impose spending discipline with an eye to the time when Medicare and Social Security will begin to run short of money. But that has not happened.  
   All of this maneuvering and horse trading predictably has been conducted behind closed doors, away from the public eye, bypassing a process whereby all of my elected colleagues should evaluate the merit of each budget item. 
   The big winner in this budget ritual is not the American people but bigger Government and bigger bank accounts for special interests. 
   As Ronald Reagan was fond of saying, ``Facts are stubborn things,'' and the facts swirling around the fiscal year 2001 budget are disheartening to anyone who believes in smaller Government, fiscal restraint, and the responsibility of elected officials to do everything possible to ensure prosperity for our children and grandchildren. 
   A few months ago, Republicans outlined our spending plan, calling for about $600 billion in so-called discretionary spending. That is spending on programs other than Social Security, Medicare, and interest on our $5.7 trillion debt. The President's budget requested about $623 billion in discretionary spending. 
   But the unsavory mix of Members adding billions upon billions more in special interest spending, in what the Associated Press described as a ``bipartisan spending bazaar,'' combined with a President determined to squeeze as many taxpayer dollars as possible as the price for letting everyone go home, led to a ``compromise'' only Washington could love. In the end, bidding up the final spending tally in the range of $640 billion to $650 billion, give or take a few billion, but this explosion of spending does not seem to bother the White House. Just last week, I was amused to read the words of the President's Chief of Staff, who said in a speech that at the end of this budget process, ``We will have a budget that is fiscally responsible.'' 
   It is a mind-boggling comment, at odds with the facts. 
   For the fiscal year 2001, we have already spent at least $30 billion past the discretionary spending limits set by the budget resolution for this year. When all is said and done and all the bills have been properly reviewed, we could very well spend up to $50 billion more. What is going on here? 
   The Congress has not always acted this way. As a matter of fact, in 1997 and 1998, when we still had deficits, we spent less money than the actual budget caps. Since the era of surpluses began in 1999, the Congress and the President have taken this to mean they now have a license to spend freely without any adherence to limits. In fact, a recent Cato Institute study of congressional budget habits found that from fiscal year 1998 to fiscal year 2000, domestic spending grew by more than 14 percent in real terms. 
   Our continuing irresponsibility is threatening to consume a substantial portion of the projected on-budget surpluses before they are realized. Do any of my colleagues genuinely believe we will actually spend less next year? 
   According to a CBO report released this month, even if we are to save all of today's projected surpluses, we still face the possibility of an uncertain long-term fiscal future as the 
   aging of our population and, thanks to the wonders of modern medicine, the lengthening of our lifespans lead to surging entitlements costs. 
   The CBO projected the three main entitlements programs--Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid--will rise from roughly 7.5 percent of gross domestic product today to 17 percent by the year 2040, absent structural reforms. One line in particular in the report should grab the attention of my colleagues. It reads:  
   Projections of future economic growth and fiscal imbalances are quite sensitive to assumptions about what policymakers will do with the budget surplus that are projected to arise over the next decade.   
   Remember, today's official budget surplus projections assume discretionary spending will grow for the next 10 years at the rate of inflation, which makes the conclusion of a recent Concord Coalition report even more alarming. The report warns ``that if discretionary spending continues to grow at the same rate it has in recent years, two-thirds of the projected 10-year non-Social Security surplus would disappear.'' That will translate into a reduction of the non-Social Security surplus by $1.4 trillion. 
   While the White House was the chief engineer pushing the spending bonanza, my party, yet again, let pass a golden opportunity to showcase our fiscal discipline and resolute devotion to debt reduction. We could have supported spending bills with no hard-earned taxpayers' money spent at the behest of individual lawmakers without authorization and adequate congressional review, but we did not. 
   As we are close to the end of this Congress, we must look to the next Congress, indeed the next President, to address many of the pressing problems that plague our Nation. The real question that faces us is whether we will end the Washington partisan gridlock and achieve results for the American people on a range of critical issues, such as prescription drugs, HMO reform, Social Security reform, and military reform. 
   I strongly submit that to break the gridlock that cripples Washington, we must break the stranglehold of the special interests on our political process. 
   For example, we have been trying for nearly 2 years to get a decent health care bill of rights passed into law. The purpose of the legislation is to provide every American who is caught in a squeeze play between employers' HMOs and their doctors with some basic rights designed to ensure they get the quality health care they have paid for and deserve. Yet the trial lawyers and the health care industry lobbies have succeeded in derailing any hope of reaching a meaningful compromise. So Americans, average Americans, will go on suffering at the hands of health care bureaucracy decisions often guided more by the bottom line than the best interests of the patients. 
   We must have courage to say no to the special interests who pay the soft money fee to gain access to the high political councils while the average taxpayer is left out in the cold. It will not be easy breaking our addiction to soft money. 
   Roll Call newspaper reports that in a recent survey of 300 senior corporate executives conducted by the Tarrance Group:  
   Nearly three-quarters said pressure is placed on business leaders to make large political donations, and half of the executives said their colleagues ``fear adverse consequences for themselves or their industry if they turn down requests'' for contributions.  
   And 79 percent said the campaign finance system is ``broken and should be reformed.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Chair. I will make the rest of my remarks brief. 
   Such pressure for campaign contributions seems to be paying dividends. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, in 1992, soft money accounted for 18 percent of the political parties' overall fundraising. Today, that figure has more than doubled to ``40 percent of everything the parties raise.'' 
   We are going in the wrong direction, and it is undermining our democracy. That is why I pledge to bring campaign finance reform to the Senate floor when the Senate convenes next year. 
   Let me be clear; no matter which party prevails in November, our democracy will be the loser unless we clean up our political process. Without real change in how we conduct our politics, cynicism will prevail and continue to eat away at our public square, fueling even lower voter turnout and turning more and more Americans away from public service. 
   Mr. President, this is too high a price to pay. That is why I am committed to clean up the budget process and the way we fund campaigns. Please join me in this process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, there is a great example of the influence of special interests, which I am told has been inserted into the Commerce-State-Justice, the Judiciary, and related agencies appropriations conference report, without a debate on this floor, without a vote on this floor. 
   Mr. President, I understand that legislation restricting low-power FM services has been added behind closed doors to that appropriations bill. 
   The addition of this rider illustrates, once again, how the special interests of a few are allowed to dominate the voices of the many in the backdoor dealings of the appropriations process. 
   Low-power FM radio service provides community-based organizations, churches, and other nonprofit groups with a new, affordable opportunity to reach out to the public, helping to promote a greater awareness within our communities, about our communities. As such, low-power FM is supported by the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National League of Cities, Consumers' Union and many religious organizations, including but not limited to, the U.S. Catholic Conference and the United Church of Christ. These institutions support low-power FM because they see what low-power FM's opponents also know to be true--that these stations will make more programming available to the public, and provide outlets for news and perspectives not currently featured on local radio stations. 
   But, the special interests forces opposed to low-power FM--most notably the National Association of Broadcasters and National Public Radio have mounted a vigorous behind-the-scenes campaign against this service. 
   Let me repeat--and my dear friend from Nebraska joined me in this effort. Together, we tried to stop the National Association of Broadcasters and National Public Radio. Simply put, they have won again. 
   I believe the Senator from Nebraska will agree with me there is no way they could have carried that vote on the floor of this Senate. There is no way they could have deprived all of these communities, all of these small business people, all of these religious organizations, all of these minority groups--but they stuck it into an appropriations bill, a piece of legislation that never had a single bit of debate and would never have passed through the Commerce Committee, of which I am the chairman, if it had been put to a vote. 
   Earlier this year, Senator KERRY and I introduced the Low Power FM Radio Act of 2000, which would have struck a fair balance between allowing low-power radio stations to go forward while at the same time protecting existing full-power stations from actual interference. Under our bill, low-power stations causing interference would be required to stop causing interference--or be shut down--but noninterfering low-power FM stations would be allowed to operate without further delay. The opponents of low-power FM did not support this bill because they want low-power FM to be dead rather than functional. 
   Congress should not permit the appropriations process to circumvent the normal legislative process. 
   Mr. President, low-power FM is an opportunity for minorities, churches and others to have a new voice in radio broadcasting. In the Commerce Committee, we constantly lament the fact that minorities, community-based organizations, and religious organizations do not have adequate opportunities to communicate their views. Moreover, over the years, I have often heard many Members of both the Committee and this Senate lament the enormous consolidation that has occurred in the telecommunications sector as a whole and the radio industry specifically. Here, we had a chance to simply get out of the way, and allow noninterfering low-power radio stations to go forward to help combat these concerns. Instead, we allowed special interests to hide their competitive fears behind the smokescreen of hypothetical interference to severely wound--if not kill--this service in the dead of night. 
   Mr. President, speaking for my side of the aisle, we are the party of Abraham Lincoln. We constantly endorse the importance of religious speech to American culture. How can we possibly stifle an opportunity for minority and religious organizations to communicate more effectively with their local communities? By permitting special interests to stifle these voices we are  truly compromising the most fundamental principles of our party and our Nation. 
   I stand before these community-based organizations, these religious organizations, these people throughout these small communities all over America and say: I apologize. I apologize to you for this action--behind closed doors--that we are going to deprive you of a voice, of a very small FM radio station. And I will tell you who did it. The National Public Radio and the National Association of Broadcasters--the same organization that got $70 billion worth of free spectrum of public taxpayer-owned property. And, by the way, they are not giving back their analog spectrum, which is the subject for another speech. I say to the National Association of Broadcasters and the National Public Radio, shame on you. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the Conference Report for Foreign Operations Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2001. 
   The bill before us includes much that is good; in fact, it includes much that is important for our national security. For example, with the Middle East experiencing a level of turmoil not witnessed since the 1973 Yom Kippur War, the assistance in this bill for Israel and for other friends and allies in the region constitutes an essential component of our policy there. Vital humanitarian assistance programs are funded, including debt relief for especially poor countries. 
   However, I cannot support this conference report because it raises fiscal year 2001 discretionary spending caps to $637 billion from the $600 billion that was provided for in the budget resolution passed in April. Assuming that will be the new total amount of spending allowed, that would be nearly $40 billion more than the budget resolution, $13 billion more than what the President requested, and $50 billion more than what was spent in fiscal year 2000. 
   In addition, there remains the usual plethora of parochially-driven spending directives. While the bill appears to avoid legally restrictive earmarks, the effect of numerous provisions intended to do precisely that: direct funds where Members of Congress want them to go, usually for parochial reasons. I will be submitting a list of such items for the RECORD. 
   The decision to vote against this bill, irrespective of the usual pork-barrel provisions, however, was difficult. I recognize the importance of aid to Israel during this crucial period in its history, and I agree with the imperative of relieving the poorest countries of the burden of their international debts. The fiscal irresponsibility of Section 701 of this bill adjusting the spending caps upward to accommodate greater levels of pork barrel spending is too much to ignore. I'm not ignoring it, Mr. President. I oppose passage of this bill because I abhor the continuing disregard for fiscal responsibility it represents. And I abhor the cynicism illuminated by a decision to attach such fiscally irresponsible language to a spending bill so important to our national security. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print in the RECORD earmarks, Member-adds, and directive language. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce revised legislation that will make sure that new entrants and small businesses will have the chance to enter and grow in today's megacorporation-dominated telecommunications marketplace. Together with my good friend and colleague, Communications Subcommittee Chairman CONRAD BURNS, I am pleased to bring forward for the Senate's consideration The Telecommunications Ownership Diversity Act of 2000. 
   Mr. President, no one needs to be told that any small business faces significant barriers in trying to enter the telecommunications industry. These barriers are even more formidable when the entrepreneur happens to be a woman or a member of a minority group, due to their historically more difficult job of obtaining needed financing. Therefore, in this current telecom industry mixer, small businesses, especially those owned by minorities or women, are often left without partners, watching as bigger, more established companies, get to dance. 
   That's not right, but there is an answer. The answer isn't to forbid mergers out-of-hand, or to retain hopelessly outdated FCC ownership restrictions, or to pursue constitutionally or economically doomed set-aside programs. The answer is to give established industry players economic incentives to deal with new entrants and small businesses that counterbalance the incentives they have to deal with larger companies. 
   And that's what this bill does. The Telecommunications Ownership Diversity Act of 2000 will promote entry into the telecommunications industry during this period of unprecedented restructuring by providing carefully-limited changes to the tax law. These changes to the tax law are an indispensable component of the solution. Under current law, smaller companies typically must purchase properties for cash, and cash transactions are fully taxable to the seller. So naturally sellers of telecommunications businesses prefer to sell for stock, which is tax-deferred, and which large companies have to offer. 
   The Act will level the playing field for new entrants and small businesses by giving telecommunications business sellers a tax deferral when the property is bought for cash by a small business telecommunications company. The Act will also encourage the entry of new players and the growth of existing small businesses by enabling the seller of a telecommunications business to claim the tax deferral on capital gains if it invests the proceeds of any sale of its business in purchasing an interest in an eligible small business. 
   In recognition of the convergence of telecommunications services and the growing importance of wireless and other services as an essential component of the telecommunications market, the telecommunications businesses eligible for this capital gains tax deferral are broadly defined to include not only broadcast and cable TV-type businesses, but also wireline and wireless telephone service providers and resellers. To eliminate the potential for abuse, the Act would require the eligible purchaser to hold any property acquired for three years, during which time it could only be sold to an unrelated eligible purchaser. The General Accounting Office is required to thoroughly audit and report on the administration and effect of the Act every two years. 
   Mr. President, this legislation represents a significant step toward helping to ensure that small companies share a portion of the investment benefits our tax laws give to major telecommunications companies. Over the next several months, we look forward to working with interested organizations to further refine this legislation. Specifically, we would welcome comments on how to further refine the concepts of qualified telecommunications business and eligible purchaser so as to ensure that this legislation meets its  goals in the most fair and effective manner. Moreover, we note that this legislation contains a ``control'' test that is intended to ensure that this legislation is not subject to abuse--and actually benefits those that it is intended to help. We recognize, however, that this control test may also need to be refined as we go forward. 
   Mr. President, hallmark developments in the telecommunications industry have been made by gifted individuals with small companies and unlimited vision. In this sense the telecommunications industry is a true microcosm of the American free-market system, in which the benefits produced by its entrepreneurs generate benefits that extend to all of us. It is therefore critically important that new entrants and small businesses have a chance to participate across the broad spectrum of industries that will make up the telecommunications industry in the Information Age. The Act will help them do that, and Senator BURNS and I are proud to sponsor it and to work for its enactment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001025</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this bill provides for the creation of an international scientific commission to assess changes in global climate patterns and to conduct scientific studies and analysis on behalf of the nations of the world. 
   The Commerce Committee held three hearings on the subject of climate change this year. We heard from several witnesses on the science of global warming, the impacts of climate change on the United States, and solutions to climate change. 
   One of the most salient points of the three hearings was the importance of good science to the policymaking process. Most importantly, any action the United States takes in response to claims of global warming must be based on the best science available and not on rhetoric or political expedience. We must continue to invest in our research capabilities to fully understand the scientific interactions between humans, the land, the ocean, and the atmosphere. 
   Based upon testimonies received by the Commerce Committee, the knowledge base in some countries is far greater than in others. To solve this global problem of climate change, we must rely upon all the resources and knowledge available to us. We must ensure that the United States research program is providing the maximum returns on our investment dollars. It was both surprising and disappointing to see that for a recent assessment of the United States, we had to rely upon two foreign computer models. We must do better. 
   Mr. President, I feel it is of vital importance that we allow scientists the opportunity to pursue knowledge as opposed to being constrained by politics. In introducing this bill entitled, International Climate Change Science Commission Act, it is my hope and intention that the membership of the Commission will be filled by those who are scientists and fully appreciate the pursuit of truth and knowledge. I hope this commission will provide them with an opportunity to freely research, discuss, and document their scientific findings. 
   Mr. President, I realize this bill will not pass this session. However, it is my hope that by introducing this bill a discussion will begin in the scientific community of how to better structure this piece of legislation and to ensure that the best available science is used for policy decisions. After discussions with the scientific community, I intend to re-introduce this bill or a new version of the measure next session and hopefully then move towards its enactment. 
   I also plan to offer other pieces of legislation next year in this area. There are several types of actions that may be taken to address this situation as indicated in the Commerce Committee's hearing, ``Solutions to Climate Change,'' held on September 21, 2000. 
   Mr. DURBIN: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001024</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably nomination lists which were printed in the RECORDS of the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expenses of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators.  
   Coast Guard nominations beginning Janet B. Gammon and ending Thomas C. Thomas, which nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on October 19, 2000. 
   Coast Guard nominations beginning Mark S. Telich and ending Deborah A. Dombeck, which nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on October 19, 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001024</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleague, Senator KYL, as a co-sponsor to this important legislation, the Arizona Water Settlements Act of 2000, to ratify a negotiated settlement for Central Arizona Project water allocations to municipalities, agricultural districts and Indian tribes in the state of Arizona. This settlement reflects extensive negotiations by state, federal, and tribal parties. 
   Let me begin by commending the extraordinary commitment and diligence by all parties involved in these negotiations to reach this pivotal stage in the settlement process, which as I understand is near conclusion. I also praise my colleague, Senator JON KYL, and the Interior Secretary, Bruce Babbitt, for their front-line leadership in facilitating the settlement process. From my previous role in legislating past agreements, I recognize how challenging these negotiations can be, and I appreciate their personal commitment to this settlement process. 
   This legislation is vitally important to Arizona's future because it will finally bring certainty and stability to Arizona's water supply by completing the final adjudication of the Gila River. Repayment obligations of the state of Arizona for construction of the Central Arizona Project (CAP) will be addressed as part of this bill. Pending water rights claims to the Gila River and its tributaries by various Indian tribes and non-Indian users will be permanently settled and allocated. 
   I join Senator KYL, and the rest of the Arizona delegation, in sponsoring companion bills today to express our strong support for continuation and conclusion of this settlement process. While much of the negotiations have successfully resulted in consensus language among the various parties, it is important to emphasize that this bill does not reflect the final settlement agreement. All parties recognize that the provisions of this bill are likely to change as the negotiations continue and additional parties settle remaining claims. We fully expect that settlement negotiations will continue with a final agreement ratified in the 107th congressional session. 
   Mr. President, my sponsorship of this bill indicates my strong support for the settlement process and I expect that further negotiations will be carried out in good-faith among all parties. However, I want to be clear that my support today is not a full endorsement of all the provisions in this preliminary bill. 
   This is a particularly important point as several provisions in this bill are not typical of language included in past Indian water settlement agreements ratified by the Congress. These noted provisions are intended to prescribe future off-reservation Indian trust land acquisitions for the Gila River Indian Community, one of the primary Indian parties to the settlement. Inclusion of these provisions is  intended to address water management concerns of the state in the event that the tribe removes lands from either public or private use to be added into federal Indian trust land status. 
   Mr. President, Indian trust land acquisitions are the subject of much debate nationwide. In fact, the Department of Interior has proposed modifications to its existing regulations to address many of the same concerns raised by the state parties regarding potential impacts to resource management, loss of tax revenues, or other impacts to neighboring communities. These regulations have not been finalized to date. 
   Despite my support for the overall settlement, I believe it unwise to include ad hoc language that applies restrictions to only one particular tribe when overall changes to the underlying federal law governing Indian trust land acquisitions have not been settled. Such modifications to federal Indian trust land policies should also be guided by the review and advice of the congressional committees of jurisdiction. I hope that continuing discussions on this matter will result in a resolution that respects both the rights of the Indian tribes and the state of Arizona, consistent with applicable laws. 
   Mr. President, we introduce this bill today as an expression of our commitment to the various parties to successfully achieve conclusion to this process. The Arizona Water Settlements Act will be a historic accomplishment and one that will ultimately benefit all citizens of Arizona, the tribal communities, and the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to thank both Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI for their hard work on this important legislation which provides federal funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs, VA, and  Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and Independent Agencies. Unfortunately, Mr. President, this year-end process to rush spending measures through Congress at the last minute again leaves very little time for members to review in full detail the finalized conference reports, which are all too often bottled up until just before they arrive on the Senate floor. The VA-HUD conference report, regrettably, is no exception. 
   The House of Representatives just passed this report, despite the fact that most of the voting members did not have adequate time to fully review its contents. And now, the Senate is being asked to do the same. How can we make sound policy and budget decisions with this type of budget steam-rolling? 
   This conference report provides $22.4 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. That amount is $17.2 million more than the budget request and $1.5 billion above the fiscal year 2000 budget level. It does appear that some progress has been made to reduce the overall amount of earmarks in this spending bill. The conferees have earmarked approximately $40 million this year; last year, earmarks exceeded $31 million. 
   Certain provisions in the Veterans Affairs section of the bill also illustrate that Congress still does not have its priorities in order. Let me review some examples of items included in the bill. 
   The conferees direct that $250,000 be used by the Department of Veterans Affairs to host The Sixth International Scientific Congress on ``Sport and Human Performance Beyond Disability.'' The conference report continues to express the view that the conferees believe this sporting event is within the mission of the VA. 
   Neither budgeted for nor requested by the Administration over the past nine years is a provision that directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to continue the nine-year-old demonstration project involving the Clarksburg, West Virginia, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, VAMC, and the Ruby Memorial Hospital at West Virginia University. Several years ago, the VA-HUD appropriations bill contained a plus-up of $2 million to the Clarksburg VAMC that ended up on the Administration's line-item veto list. The committee has also added $1 million for the design of a nursing home care unit at the Beckley, West Virginia, VAMC. 
   The VA-HUD funding bill also includes construction projects not originally included in the President's budget request. 
   For example, the VA-HUD appropriations report adds $12 million not previously included in the President's budget for the construction of the Oklahoma National Cemetery. Obviously, the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee felt compelled to include this money since the VA and the Administration chose to ignore the Committee's report language last year. Last year the VA-HUD Senate report directed the VA to award a contract for design, architectural, and engineering services in October 1999 for a new National Cemetery in Lawton (Oklahoma City/Fort Sill), Oklahoma, and also directed the President's fiscal year 2001 budget to include construction funds for a new Oklahoma National Cemetery. 
   Most questionable are several special interest projects not previously included in the House or Senate version of the fiscal year 2001 VA-HUD appropriations bill. Some examples are: $15 million for land acquisition for a national cemetery in South Florida, $5 million for the Joslin Vision Network for telemedicine in Hawaii, and continued funding for the National Technology Transfer Center, NTTC, at Wheeling Jesuit College in Wheeling, West Virginia. None of these programs were in the President's budget request, nor in either House or Senate veterans funding bills. 
   In addition, the bill adds $1 million not previously included in the President's budget for planning and design activities for a new national cemetery in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and $2.5 million for advanced planning and design development for a national cemetery in Atlanta, Georgia. Last year, the Senate provided an additional $500,000 for design efforts for Atlanta, as well as other congressionally-directed locations. 
   Although these areas are likely deserving of veterans cemeteries, I wonder how many other national cemetery projects in other states were bypassed to ensure that these states received the VA's highest priority. 
   This bill also contains the funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The programs administered by HUD help our nation's families purchase their homes, helps many low-income families obtain affordable housing, combats discrimination in the housing market, assists in rehabilitating neighborhoods and helps our nation's most vulnerable--the elderly, disabled and disadvantaged--have access to safe and affordable housing. 
   Unfortunately, this bill shifts money away from many critical housing and community programs by bypassing the appropriate competitive process and inserting earmarks and set-asides for special projects that received the attention of the Appropriations Committee. This is unfair to the many communities and families who do not have the fortune of residing in a region of the country represented by a member of the Appropriations Committee. 
   And once again, Utah has managed to receive additional funds set aside for the 2002 winter Olympic games. 
   This bill includes $2 million for the Utah Housing Finance Agency to provide temporary housing during the Olympics. It is certainly a considerate gesture that the housing facilities are 
   expected to be used after the 2002 games for low-income housing needs in Utah. However, I am confident that the many families in Utah and around the country who are facing this winter and next without affordable and safe housing would much rather have this $2 million used for helping them now rather than in two or three years when the Olympics are over. 
   Some of the earmarks for special projects in this bill include: 
   $500,000 for the restoration of a carousel in Cleveland, Ohio; 
   $500,000 for the Chambers County Courthouse Restoration Project in the City of LaFayette, Alabama; 
   $2.6 million for the rehabilitation of the opera house in the City of Meridian, Mississippi; 
   $3 million for restoration of an historic property in Anchorage, Alaska; 
   $2 million for renovation on the Northwest corner of 63rd Street and Prospect Avenue in Kansas City; 
   $500,000 for infrastructure improvements to the W.H. Lyons Fairgrounds in Sioux Falls, South Dakota; and 
   $400,000 for Bethany College in Bethany, West Virginia for continued work on a health and wellness center. 
   This bill also funds the Environmental Protection Agency, EPA, which provides resources to help state, local and tribal communities enhance capacity and infrastructure to better address their environmental needs. I support directing more resources to communities that are most in need and facing serious public health and safety threats from environmental problems. Unfortunately, after a cursory review of this year's conference report for EPA programs, I find it difficult to believe that we are responding to the most urgent environmental issues. 
   There are many environmental needs in communities back in my home state of Arizona, but these communities will be denied funding as long as we continue to tolerate earmarking that circumvents a regular merit-review process. 
   For example, some of the earmarks include: 
   $300,000 for the Coalition for Utah's Future; 
   $1 million for the Animal Waste Management Consortium in Missouri; 
   $2 million for the University of Missouri-Rolla for research and development of technologies to mitigate the impacts of livestock operations on the environment; 
   $200,000 to complete the soy smoke initiative through the University of Missouri-Rolla; and 
   $500,000 for the Economic Development Alliance of Hawaii. 
   While these projects may be important, why do they rank higher than other environmental priorities? 
   For independent agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, this bill also includes earmarks of money for locality-specific projects such as: 
   $3.5 million for a center on life in external thermal environments at Montana State University in Bozeman; and  
   $15 million for infrastructure needs of the Life Sciences building at the University of Missouri-Columbia. 
   Let me also read two paragraphs from an article by David Rodgers, to be included for the RECORD, in today's Wall Street Journal: 
   ``Never before has the appropriations process been such a clearinghouse for literally thousands of individual grants and construction projects coveted as favors for voters. Budget negotiators gave their blessing last night to more than 700 ``earmarks''--listed on 46 double-spaced pages--in a single account for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Environmental Protection Agency budget bulges with about 235 clean-water projects. Hundreds of ``member initiatives'' totaling nearly $1 billion are expected to be spread among the departments of Labor, Education and Health and Human Services.  
   Perhaps the most striking example of earmarks is the so-called economic-development initiative in the HUD budget, for which about $292 million is spread among an estimated 701 projects. The precise language has been closely guarded by the committee, and the clerks deliberately compiled the list in no particular order to make it more difficult to decipher.  
   In closing, I urge my colleagues to develop a better standard to curb our habit of directing hard-earned taxpayer dollars to locality-specific special interests so that, in the future, we can better serve the national interest. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that I have to come forward once again to oppose another of the annual appropriations bills, particularly one that is vitally important to our nation's farmers and to support social service programs for women and children.  
   However, this bill once again fails to responsibly appropriate funding to the highest agricultural and resource management priorities, and instead doles out $300 million in pork-barrel spending. This amount is close to $70 million more than was included in the Senate-passed bill, and the total overall spending for this bill exceeds the Senate and House passed bills by close to $2.8 billion. 
   Mr. President, there are several problems with this final conference agreement. 
   First, the inclusion of $300 million in special interest earmarks that either have not been properly reviewed or authorized through the legislative process. Much of this spending is earmarked for towns, universities, research institutes and a myriad of other entities that appear only vaguely related, at best, to addressing the dire situation of farmers, women and children. 
   A number of policy riders are also tacked on, without any consideration by either body, that reverse a number of 1996 farm bill reforms and violate trade policies. 
   Let's first take a look at the ``Top Ten Porkbusters'' in this year's agriculture bill: 
   No. 10, An add-on of $300,000 is provided to a laboratory in East Lansing, Michigan to map and identify genes in chickens; 
   No. 9, An amount of $680,000 will be provided to test the ``competitiveness'' of agricultural products solely from the state of Washington; 
   No. 8, Despite millions provided for salmon restoration through other appropriations bills this year, $645,000 is earmarked for research on alternative salmon products in guess where--Alaska; you will find Alaska pops up quite frequently in these pork barrel bills. 
   No. 7, An add-on of $1.05 million will pay for sunflower research in Fargo, North Dakota. 
   Sunflower research, obviously, is unable to be carried out in any other part of America, so we have to add $1 million to pay for sunflower research in Fargo, ND. 
   No. 6, $300,000 is earmarked for the Pineapple Growers Association in Hawaii, whose three members of the Pineapple Growers Association are the impoverished organizations, Dole Food, Del Monte Fresh Produce, and Maui Pineapple Company. These impoverished three corporations are badly in need of $300,000 of the taxpayers' money so they can deliberate as the Pineapple Growers Association of Hawaii. 
   A whopping $5 million is earmarked for an insect rearing facility in Stoneville, MS. That must be an interesting place. 
   No. 4, an add-on of $300,000 will pay for manure management systems in Florence, SC. I have spent a lot of time in South Carolina. I hope this $300,000 will pay for the manure management systems in Florence, SC. 
   No. 3, a $250,000 earmark is included for potato research in Prosser, WA, to develop improved varieties of potatoes. Only in Prosser, WA, do we need to do this kind of research. 
   No. 2, the popular National Center for Peanut Competitiveness in Georgia will receive a healthy endowment of $400,000. That ever popular National Center for Peanut Competitiveness, in Georgia, will receive this $400,000. 
   And No. 1, an earmark of $100,000 is provided for the Trees Forever Program in Illinois, the vitally important purpose of which is to encourage and provide information on the use of trees. Trees Forever in Illinois is to encourage and provide information on the use of trees. 
   In my State of Arizona, except in the northern part of my State, we don't have a lot of trees, but we certainly have a lot of cactus. Perhaps we could have next year an earmark for the ``Cactus Forever Program.'' That might be an enjoyable exercise. I urge my pork barreling friends to consider, next time they have Trees Forever, perhaps ``Cactus Forever.'' 
   Mr. President, this is just a small sample from the 32-page list of earmarks I compiled from this agriculture appropriations conference report. Many are recurring earmarks, year after year, for projects that appear to be either duplicative or, as GAO had found when reviewing agricultural spending, pay for projects not related to basic research or high-priority areas, or which already receive substantial private sector investments. 
   Mr. President, I am sure that many of these objects may be meritorious and helpful to the designated communities. What I object to is the way these projects have been selectively identified and prioritized for earmarks, mostly for purely political interest, rather than for the national interest. 
   This agriculture appropriations measure is intended to provide assistance to farmers, women, children and rural communities with the greatest need. Yet, by diverting millions for parochial spending, we fail in this responsibility, forcing Congress to once again attach ad-hoc emergency spending, adding up so far to $23 billion over the past three years, for farm relief and other disaster assistance. This time around, about $3.6 billion is designated as emergency spending for farmers and communities who have suffered critical losses due to severe drought and difficult market conditions. 
   I realize that many of America's family farms are in crisis, and some form of assistance is needed to responsibly address real economic hardship faced by many of our nation's farmers and their families. However, it is quite interesting to note that among those that the budget negotiators consider the most in need are the tobacco, sugar and honey industries. 
   For example, a last minute provision was added to reverse the limited reforms to the federal sugar program. Behind closed doors, powerful sugar interests have been able to chip away at the few reforms required by them by the 1996 Freedom to Farm bill. 
   First, through last year's omnibus appropriations bill, a provision was tacked on in conference to remove the responsibility of sugar producers to pay small marketing assessments on sugar to help pay down the federal debt. 
   By the way, a large family of sugar growers is one of the major reasons why we are having to pay billions of dollars to clean up the Everglades. 
   Earlier this year, sugar interests pressured the Agriculture Secretary to spend more than $60 million to purchase more than 150,000 tons of surplus sugar to prevent mass forfeitures, paid for by the taxpayers once again. An additional 934,000 short tons of sugar was forfeited once again this month, thereby eliminating the responsibility for sugar growers to pay back $352 million in loans. Many of these sugar growers are capable of making enormous political contributions in soft money to both parties. 
   And, now, sugar interests have adeptly worked behind the scenes to add another never-before-seen provision, not previously included in the Senate or House bill, to overturn federal sugar policy. This change will reverse the recourse loan provision in the 1996 farm bill that obligates full repayment of the loan in cash. Despite loopholes already existing in current law to allow sugar producers to sidestep loan repayments, this new conference provision directs that all federal price support loans be made permanently ``non-recourse'' loans, which is a fancy way of saying the loans will not have to be repaid. 
   Another provision added in conference allows burley tobacco producers to forfeit their crops, much in the same manner that sugar producers are allowed to do. Not only are we letting sugar and tobacco growers off the hook for repayment of Federal loans, the Federal Government will be responsible for selling off tobacco crops that are forfeited to the Federal Government. Such a movement may encourage the overproduction of tobacco, at a time when, thank God, the tobacco demand is lessening and the American people are urging more responsible federal policies toward tobacco because of its impacts on our children and public health. However, once again, special interests win, and the taxpayers will foot the bill, at a cost of $50 million. 
   Other egregious last-minute provisions added in conference include: 
   A new provision that reinstates the federal subsidy for honey producers, previously repealed by the 1996 farm bill. The cost? $20 million. 
   The controversial dairy price support program will be extended, while also delaying implementation of the dairy recourse loan program that requires full repayment of federal loans. 
   $500,000 is earmarked solely for the State of California for crop insurance,  despite the $8 billion crop insurance reform bill passed earlier this year. 
   $2.5 million is directed to capitalize the South Carolina Grain Dealers Guaranty Fund, under the guise of emergency spending; and, 
   $7.2 million in emergency funds will pay for sugar transportation costs for the State of Hawaii. 
   Other provisions are tacked onto this report that clearly do not belong in this particular bill and, therefore, could be subject to budget points-of-order. 
   A provision, which the Wall Street Journal called a ``unique steel-friendly provision,'' was inserted into this conference report that diverts antidumping and countervailing duties from the Treasury to affected domestic industries. This provision is an almost one-half billion dollar giveaway to U.S. corporations that had not been considered previously by the Senate. As our nation begins to pay down our $5 trillion debt, we should consider the effect of this provision very carefully. Instead, we will not consider it at all. No member, except those among the negotiators, will have any say about the effects of this policy. 
   Another equally troubling provision in this report once again concerns legislation that has not been considered by the House or Senate. This provision sets up a Hass Avocado Board for avocado research and promotion. While on its face, it may not sound objectionable, such a provision may unfairly give domestic producers more representation than U.S. importers, thereby violating our WTO obligations by not granting national treatment to avocado imports and acting as an export subsidy. 
   In addition, this provision currently forces an assessment of avocados at a rate of $.025 per pound. This rate must be paid by exporters at the time of entry into the United States. However, U.S. domestic producers will not have to pay these taxes until 60 days after the last day of the month that the sale is made. In addition, no tax is collected on Hass avocados that are exported. 
   Again, these two provisions clearly violate our WTO obligations, and I believe we should study this issue more before passing it into law. I am concerned that this provision will give 85 percent of the fees collected from a state back to the state avocado board. This seems like unnecessary pork for state avocado boards. However, once again, we will not be able to vote up or down on this provision. 
   The Congress has certain rules that apply to its budget process. One of those rules states that, once a Senate-House conference convenes, negotiations are limited to only the funding and provisions that exist in either bill. Adding funding that is outside the scope of the conference is not in order, nor is the inclusion of legislative provisions that were not in the preexisting bills. 
   The final agreement clearly violates our established rules over and over again. Yet, no one pays attention to these violations because Congress appears to favor spending that benefits the special interests of a few, rather than spend the taxpayers' dollars responsibly and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans. 
   It is all taxpayers who have to shoulder the burden to pay for the pork-barrel spending in this appropriations conference report and the others that will follow, and I will not vote to place that burden on American families. 
   Mr. President, in conclusion I want to refer to a column by David Broder in this morning's Washington Post. The title of it is, ``So Long, Surplus.'' That is what I have to say this morning and what I have been saying for several weeks now: So long, surplus. 
   I notice a lot of the Presidential debate is devoted to what we will do with the surplus, whether we cut taxes; whether we pay down the debt; whether we save Social Security; whether we save Medicare. It is not going to be there. We are spending it at an incredibly huge rate.  
   As a result, said Congressional Quarterly, the nonpartisan, private news service, spending for fiscal 2001, which began on Oct. 1, is likely to be $100 billion more than allowed by the supposedly ironclad budget agreement of 1997. 
   More important, the accelerated pace of spending is such that the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan budget-watchdog group, estimates that the $2.2 trillion non-Social Security surplus projected for the next decade is likely to shrink by two-thirds to about $712 billion.  
   Let me repeat. The Concord Coalition, which is a bipartisan organization, predicts that the surplus is not going to be $2.2 trillion in the next decade; it is going to be about $712 billion. And that is with the rosiest of scenarios. 
   What are we doing here? What are we doing here? We are spending the surplus; we are earmarking, pork barrel spending; we are calling things emergencies that are not. We are frivolously and irresponsibly spending this surplus which is so vital to our ability to meet our entitlement obligations in this century, obligations to Social Security and to Medicare and other entitlement programs. 
   I quote from David Broder again, from this morning.  
   To grasp what is happening--those now in office grabbing the goodies before those seeking office have a chance--you have to examine the last-minute rush of bills moving through Congress as it tries to wrap up its work and get out of town.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Congress has not always acted this way. As a matter of fact, in fiscal years 1997 and 1998, when we still had deficits, the Congress spent less money than the actual budget caps allowed. But since the era of surpluses began in 1999, the Congress and the president have taken this to mean they now have a license to spend freely and irresponsibly without any adherence to limits. We have gradually spent in excess of the discretionary spending limits. 
   But now, for the fiscal year 2001, the spending has exploded to at least $33 billion above the spending cap, consuming nearly one-third of fiscal year 2001's projected on-budget surplus, and we still have several appropriations bills yet to go. Our continuing fiscal irresponsibility in threatening to consume a substantial portion of the projected on-budget surpluses before they are actually realized--and, according to a recently released CBO report, even if we are to save all of today's projected surpluses, we still face the possibility of an uncertain long-term fiscal future as adverse demographics and lengthening lifespans lead to surging entitlement costs. 
   CBO projects that the three main entitlement programs--Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid--will rise from roughly 7.5 percent of GDP today to 17 percent by 2040 absent programmatic reforms. The CBO also warns that ``Projections of future economic growth and fiscal imbalances are quite sensitive to assumptions about what policymakers will do with the budget surpluses that are projected to arise over the next decade.'' 
   Therefore, it is imperative that not only do we avoid squandering the projected surpluses, but the meaningful reforms of entitlement programs be undertaken not to avoid budget deficits and unsustainable levels of debt in the future. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, yesterday, we learned that a memorandum from the Inter-Agency Coordinator for the State Department instructed the Voice of America to refrain from broadcasting an editorial denouncing the terrorist act that took the lives of seventeen American sailors on the U.S.S. Cole and expressing the United States' resolute opposition to all terrorism. Apparently she perceived in the editorial an insensitivity to the fact that ``the seventeen or so dead does not compare to the 100+ Palestinians who have died in recent weeks where we have remained silent.'' 
   Mr. President, I was not aware that the United States had remained silent about the loss of life, both Israeli and Palestinian, in the current conflicts threatening the prospects for peace in the Middle East. Indeed, I believe the President and a good many members of Congress have been quite outspoken on the subject. Moreover, the losses incurred in that conflict and our responsibility to do what we can to help bring violence there to an end, does not preclude the United States from strongly, unequivocally addressing the first responsibility of any U.S. Government: the safety of American lives. 
   I understand that the State Department spokesman has issued a statement calling the official's extraordinarily offensive memorandum ``wrong,'' ``not approved through appropriate channels'' and assuring that it in ``no way reflects the views of the Secretary or the Department.'' Fine, we can let the matter rest there. 
   Let me add a thought, though. It's a free country, but the official in question is not free to represent her own controversial priorities as official U.S. policy. Should she be unable to meet this basic professional and civic responsibility, perhaps she should seek a place of employment that is more compatible with her views. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001017</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1482, the National Marine Sanctuaries Amendments Act of 2000. The National Marine Sanctuary System recognizes the ecological and cultural importance of our nation's marine resources. By setting aside these areas for protection above and beyond what is already encompassed in other state and federal programs, we are ensuring that the public will benefit from them well into the future. 
   The existing 13 sanctuaries provide more then just protection for the marine resources they encompass. They also provide recreational and educational opportunities that might not otherwise exist. For example, in the USS Monitor Sanctuary, a sunken Civil War vessel lies off the coast of North Carolina and preserves a piece of our collective history. And, in the 5,300 square miles of the Monterey Bay Sanctuary, the program protects important kelp forests and one of the deepest underwater canyons on the west coast. This emphasis on complementary uses and management is the strength of the sanctuary program. 
   There is much we can do to build upon the successes the sanctuaries have already achieved. By prioritizing our actions over the next few years on making the existing sanctuaries fully operational with education and research programs, a full complement of staff, active public outreach programs, and enforcement we will strengthen the system and help it to reach its full potential. At the same time, we are increasing the funding to the system to ensure that these goals can be reached. Authorization levels begin at $32 million for fiscal year 2001 with levels increasing by $2 million a year until fiscal year 2005. Additionally, $6 million per year is authorized for construction projects at the sanctuaries. 
   This bill also includes a new initiative to help secure the future of marine resource conservation through the creation of the Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program. These graduate scholarships will be funded by setting aside 1 percent of the National Marine Sanctuary Program's annual appropriated funds in memory of Dr. Nancy Foster, a 23-year NOAA employee who was serving as the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management at the time of her death in June. 
   I would like to thank Senator SNOWE, the sponsor of the legislation, and Senators KERRY, INOUYE, and HOLLINGS for their bipartisan support of and hard work on this bill. I would also like to express my gratitude and that of the Commerce Committee to the staff who worked on this bill, including Sloan Rappoport, Stephanie Bailenson, Brooke Sikora, Rick Kenin and Margaret Spring. In particular I would like to thank Emily Lindow, a Sea Grant fellow, whose background and experience in coastal management issues helped produce a strong and balanced marine sanctuaries bill. 
   Mr. President, again I urge the Senate to pass S. 1482, the National Marine Sanctuaries Amendments Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. As the Senator from New Hampshire stated, the Commerce Committee and the Environment and Public Works Committee have historically shared jurisdiction over the Atlantic Striped Bass Conservation Act. Our two committees have in the past always worked together to reauthorize and amend the Atlantic Striped Bass Conservation Act. I expect that relationship to continue. 
   In order to facilitate the passage of this year's Atlantic Striped Bass reauthorization, Subtitle A of Title III of H.R. 3417, as amended, reauthorizes the Atlantic Striped Bass Conservation Act. Although the Pribilof Islands Transition Act and the other provisions in this legislation are under the sole jurisdiction of the Commerce Committee, I understand that my colleague from New Hampshire has reviewed and approved the language contained in Title III; therefore, the shared jurisdiction of the Commerce Committee and the Environment and Public Works Committee over the conservation of Atlantic Striped bass should not be altered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I am glad to yield to the Senator from Maryland until she completes this business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Since the Senator from Maryland had already embarked on this parliamentary movement, I will yield until that is completed and then speak after that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank both Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI for their hard work on this important legislation which provides federal funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and Independent Agencies. Once again, though, I find myself in the unpleasant position of commenting on the process of bringing these spending bills to the Senate floor and on the spending items that have not been appropriately reviewed. 
   This task is even more necessary for this bill because of the truly unique process by which it arrived on the Senate floor--a process that increasingly empowers appropriators while disenfranchising many of my colleagues. 
   Let me comment on the process that has brought us to the point in time where we are about to vote on final passage of this bill. First, let me explain how the appropriations process is supposed to work. In the normal process of passing appropriations bills, an appropriations bill is first passed in the House of Representatives, then the Senate passes its own version. A conference committee is formed to iron out the differences between the two different bills, resulting in a conference report. Then the conference report is passed by both the House and the Senate, and sent to the President for his signature in order to become law. That sounds fairly straightforward. 
   In the case of this bill, we have decided to substitute the normal process of considering appropriations bills for a highly questionable approach to passing legislation. 
   The process we have decided to undertake avoids substantive debate on the merits of this bill and to the larger question of whether we are spending taxpayers' hard-earned money wisely and responsibly. Just because it is late in the game does not give us the right to avoid the normal process of appropriations. The Senate is being asked to pass the bill despite the fact that there was only one copy made available to each side and many Senators did not have adequate time to review its contents. How can we make sound policy and budget decisions with this type of budget steam-rolling? 
   Let me be clear about what is occurring today. This VA-HUD bill that we are voting on is a so-called ``composite compromise,'' cloaking the reality that we would normally be calling a VA-HUD conference report. The Appropriations leadership intends to take up the House-passed version of this year's VA-HUD Appropriations bill, substitute a Senate managers' amendment written by the House and Senate Appropriations Committees which for all practical purposes is a conference agreement--a conference agreement, not open to public inspection, not done through the normal legislative process, such as appointing conferees or allowing full disclosure of the issues being discussed. This process will allow the Appropriators to simply insert a ``Committee Statement'' into the record outlining certain questionable spending priorities that will ultimately be paid for by the American taxpayer. This ``composite compromise'' will then go to the House so that they can quickly pass the amended bill and then send it to the President for his signature. 
   Is that the way to pass legislation? As legislators, we have been entrusted by the American taxpayers to represent the fiscal interests of them and their nation. The American taxpayer is counting on us to use their hard-earned money wisely and here we are, manipulating the budget process so that we can say we did something and go back home to campaign. 
   Unfortunately, Mr. President, the budget process games began long before this bill. 
   When the conference report on Legislative Branch Appropriations bill first came to the floor for debate and a vote last month, the appropriators decided to insert the Treasury and General Government appropriations bill into it. Rather than having the Treasury and General Government Appropriations bill considered separately as it is usually done, to be debated on its own merits, the appropriators' actions decided to circumvent the normal budget  process. This so-called ``minibus'' was soundly defeated and rightly so. 
   When the conference report on the Transportation Appropriations bill was brought to the Senate floor for a vote, the appropriators did not even provide a copy of the report for others to read and examine before voting on the nearly $60 billion bill. The transportation bill itself was only two pages long with the barest of detail--with actual text of the report to come later. 
   And yet, the appropriators were expecting Senators to vote yes on legislation that could not even be read, deciphered, and debated intelligently? How is this type of action accountable to all the hard-working Americans who demand that all their tax dollars are wisely spent? I worry that these budget games we play serve to reinforce their cynicism about politics. 
   Mr. President, the budget process can be summed up simply: no debate, no deliberation, and very few votes. Mr. President, this is no way to run the United States Senate. 
   To date, only two of the thirteen appropriations bills have become law. Of those remaining, three bills--Labor, HHS, Education, VA-HUD, and Treasury-Postal--were never brought to the Senate floor for debate as part of a deliberate strategy to prevent votes on any controversial amendments that my colleagues may have offered. Extraordinary measures are being employed to drive these spending bills through Congress. The only winners in such an arrangement are the appropriators. The rest of us, including our constituents, are, for all intents and purposes, shut-out of the process. 
   Mr. President, by adopting this budget strategy, we do a disservice to our constituents by not squarely facing tough issues, whether it's school choice, gun control, campaign finance, minimum wage, gambling, or HMO reform, and engaging in debate--even in the heat of an election season where both sides of the aisle are maneuvering for maximum political advantage. These are important issues. They deserve to be debated and each deserves an up or down vote. 
   Moreover, we have an obligation to ensure that Congress spends the taxpayer's hard-earned dollars prudently to protect the projected budget surpluses. The American public cannot understand why we engage in a process that continues to spend huge amounts of money without adequately balancing this spending against our nation's most urgent present and future needs. Spending from this budget process has been on automatic pilot. We have already exceeded the budget caps by over $30 billion, consuming, so far, about one-third of the on-budget surplus for FY2001--and we have yet to pass all of the appropriations bills. This byzantine budget process precludes serious discussion about how our projected budget surpluses should be devoted to national priorities such as saving Social Security, providing much needed tax relief, paying down the national debt, or addressing other major priorities. 
   But more is lost beyond the throttling of debate, the profligate spending of taxpayers' dollars, and the broken budget process. 
   Since 1960, the percentage of voters participating in the general presidential election has dropped nearly 15 percent, reaching below the 50 percent mark four years ago. Today, voter apathy, especially among the youth of America, is widespread. Even more disheartening is the fact that too many Americans, when asked to rank the people in the different fields from highest regard to lowest, consistently rank our profession near the bottom. 
   Poll after poll continues to show an undercurrent of cynicism toward our governmental institution. As I previously mentioned, budget games like the one we have witnessed in the last few weeks contribute to this cynicism. 
   We can still seize the reform mantle and learn from this budget morass when the doors of the new Congress open in January. We need new reforms in the way we address the budget process. Perhaps we should even consider the radical step of abolishing the Appropriations Committees. Too many programs are without authorization. We also should study whether the authorizers should also be the appropriators, to build more accountability into the process. 
   There are many other reforms we should consider next Congress if we are to spare Congress' reputation from further damage and begin to repair the people's respect for this Government. 
   The Washington Post yesterday had an article by Dan Morgan, ``As Last Bills Leave Station, Lobbyists Grab Tickets.''  
   With only a handful of bills remaining to be signed into law before Congress adjourns, well tailored business lobbyists for elite corporations have descended on Capitol Hill to plead for dozens of special provisions in a Washington ritual with billions of dollars at stake.  
   Mr. President, on October 6, the Senate passed the conference report on the bill H.R. 4475, which funds the Department of Transportation and related agencies. At the time, I included for the RECORD a list of examples of pork barrel spending contained in the Transportation conference report. But because the list of pork barrel was so long and so extensive I was unable to publish the full list in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. For those who wish to view the list in its entirety, please visit my website: http://mccain.senate.gov and click the ``pork barreling'' logo at the bottom. 
   We are also legislating on these appropriations bills. Huge and vital interests are being legislated in smoke-filled rooms in the darkest corners of this Capitol. These lobbyists are out there and they are doing damage to the national interest by getting their special interests represented in appropriations bills which have never been debated or discussed on the floor of either House. 
   That is wrong, Mr. President. Nobody knows how much overspending there will be. Some say as much as $45 or $60 billion. 
   There is an article today, I believe in the USA Today, that shows we are spending the surplus. We are all talking about how we will use the surplus. Yet we are spending it now. We are spending the surplus. We are putting into law entitlement programs that will spend even more. 
   There are some very interesting CBO studies and others by outside watchdog organizations that indicate this much ballyhooed and very optimistic view of our budget surplus is being eroded as we speak by this appropriations process. 
   I urge my colleagues to look at these bills, to look at the spending in it, to look at the legislation that is going on. We are abrogating our responsibilities to the taxpayers by voting on bills that we have neither seen nor read. 
   I hope we can make some sense out of this. The train wreck that is about to occur is the worst that I have seen in all the years I have been in the Congress. I don't think it helps us in the eyes of the American citizens, to say the least. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of H.R. 4205, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001. The bill that passed today includes several amendments that significantly improve the lives of active duty and Reserve servicemembers, military retirees, veterans, and their families. 
   I am pleased that the conference agreement includes some key legislative provisions that I had introduced in the Senate during the course of the normal legislative process. Some of these provisions included in the conference report will: remove servicemembers from food stamps; increase pay for mid-grade Petty Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers; assist disabled veterans in claims processing; expand pay benefits to some disabled military retirees; authorize a low cost life insurance plan for spouses and their children; enhance benefits and retirement pay for Reservists and National Guardsmen; authorize back pay for certain World War II Navy and Marine Corps Prisoners of War; and provide for significant acquisition reform by eliminating domestic source restrictions on the procurement of shipyard cranes. 
   One of the areas of greatest concern to me, however, regarding military retirees and their families is the broken promise of lifetime medical care, especially for those over age 65. Last year, the Joint Chiefs proclaimed that this would be the year for major health care reform for our military forces, especially our medicare-eligible military retirees who were promised lifetime military medical care. Despite the assurances of the Joint Chiefs, the President proposed a fiscal year 2001 defense budget without any major medical care reforms, and all but ignored those military retirees who are older and in greatest need of health care. 
   The Republican Congress, however, responded to military retirees' needs and provided several major military health care reforms as well as a plan in this year's bill to provide all Medicare-eligible military retirees, family members, and survivors with lifetime military health care coverage, including full pharmacy benefits in military, retail, and mail order pharmacies. This conference report will establish ``TRICARE-for-life'' as a permanent entitlement that will be funded through a ``Military Retirees Health Care Trust Fund,'' a legislative provision adopted from S.2013, a military health care reform bill that I introduced earlier this year. This new, critical lifetime benefit will mean huge savings for military retirees by eliminating the need for them to buy expensive Medicare supplemental policies. 
   Separately, with severe recruitment and retention problems still looming, we must also better compensate our mid-grade enlisted servicemembers who are critical to leading the junior enlisted force. We have significantly underpaid enlisted servicemembers since the beginning of the All Volunteer Force. The value of the mid-grade NCO pay, compared to that of the most junior enlisted, has dropped 50 percent since the All Volunteer Force was put in place by Congress in 1973. The provision for the mid-grade enlisted ranks, up to $700 per year, plus the food stamp pay provision of up to an additional $500 per month for servicemembers, provides a significant increase in pay for enlisted servicemembers. 
   In addition, the National Guard and Reserves have become a larger percentage of the Total Force and are essential partners in a wide range of military operations. Due to the higher deployment rates of the active duty forces, the Reserve Components are being called upon more frequently and for longer periods of time than ever before. We must stop treating them like a second class force. It is tremendously important that we enact meaningful improvements for both our active duty and Reserve service-members, their families, and their survivors. They risk their lives to protect our freedom and preserve democracy. We should compensate them adequately, improve the benefits to their families and survivors, and enhance the quality of life for the Reserves and National Guard in a manner similar to the active forces. 
   This bill goes far in correcting some of the inconsistencies, with regard to Reserve Component policies, that previously only benefited the active duty components. Additionally, in order to ensure that reservists receive full credit for the time and effort they commit to attending drills, performing annual training, and completing correspondence courses, the conference report increased from 70 to 90 the maximum number of days per year that reservists may accrue as credit towards retirement benefits. 
   Each year the number of disabled veterans appealing their health care cases continues to increase. Furthermore, it takes an average of 275 days to get some sort of reply from the Department of Veterans Affairs' regarding claims filing. Disabled veterans are forced to leave the service because of their disabilities. It is Congress's duty to ensure that the disability claims process is less complex, less burdensome, and much more efficient. I am pleased that the final conference agreement includes legislation necessary to fully restore the Department of Veterans Affairs' duty to ensure efficient and timely veterans claims processing and remove onerous court-imposed procedures. 
   I commend the conference leaders for including some minimal improvements to the egregious regulations that strip retirement pay from military retirees who are also disabled, and cost them any realistic opportunity for post-service earnings. We should do more to restore retirement pay for those military retirees who are disabled. With respect to concurrent receipt, clearly, retirees who have incurred significant disabilities over the course of a military career deserve better than how they are treated currently. 
   Many such servicemembers are compelled to forfeit their full-retired pay under current rules. I have stated before on the Senate floor, and I am compelled to reiterate now, retirement pay and disability pay are two distinct types of pay. Retirement pay is for service rendered through 20 years of military service. Disability pay is for physical or mental pain or suffering that occurs during and as a result of military service. In this case, members with decades of military service receive the same compensation as similarly disabled members who served only a few years--with no recognition at all for their extended, clearly more demanding careers of service to our country. This is patently unfair and even more must be done to correct this problem. 
   I would also like to point out that this year's defense authorization bill contained over $2 billion in unrequested add-ons to the defense budget that will rob our military of vital funding on priority issues. While this year's total is less than in previous years, and is far less than the $7 billion in the defense appropriations bill, it is still $2 billion too much. We need to, 
   and can do, better. I ask that the detailed list of pork on this bill be included in the Congressional RECORD following my remarks. 
   I have to wonder, Mr. President, about the wisdom of permitting the Navy to potentially violate public law with respect to the status of the last two battleships, the only current means of providing high-volume gunfire support for land forces ashore, while simultaneously continuing to provide millions of dollars from the defense budget for the recovery and preservation of Civil War vessels.  
   Over the past six years, Congress has increased the President's defense budgets by nearly $60 billion in order to address the military services' most important unfunded priorities. Still, it is sufficient to say that the military needs less money spent on pork and more money spent wisely to redress the serious problems caused by a decade of declining defense budgets. Those of us who have been criticized for sounding alarm bells about military readiness now have the empty satisfaction of seeing that there is more to maintaining a strong defense than a politician's history of falsely promising to do so. 
   We also must reform the bureaucracy of the Pentagon. With the exception of minor changes, our defense establishment looks just as it did 50 years ago. We must continue to incorporate practices from the private sector--like restructuring, reforming, and streamlining to eliminate duplication and capitalize on cost savings. 
   More effort must be made to reduce the continuing growth of headquarter staffs and to decentralize the Pentagon's labyrinth of bureaucratic fiefdoms. Although nearly every military analyst shares these views, the conference agreement took great measures to increase the size of headquarter staffs, thereby eliminating any incentive for the Pentagon to change its way of doing business with its bloated staffs and its outdated practices. 
   In addition, more must be done to eliminate unnecessary and duplicative military contracts and military installations. Every U.S. military leader has testified regarding the critical need for further BRAC rounds. We can redirect at least $3 billion per year by eliminating excess defense infrastructure. There is another $2 billion per year that we can put to better purposes by privatizing or consolidating support and maintenance functions, and an additional $5 billion can be saved per year by eliminating ``Buy America'' restrictions that only undermine U.S. competitiveness overseas. Despite these compelling facts, the conference agreement did not address any of these critical issues. On the contrary, it includes several provisions that move demonstratively in the opposite direction. 
   Sections designed to preserve Army depots and funnel work in their direction irrespective of cost are examples of the old philosophy of protecting home-town jobs at the expense of greater efficiencies. And calling plants and depots ``Centers of Excellence'' does not, Mr. President, constitute an appropriate approach to depot maintenance and manufacturing activities. Consequently, neither the Center of Industrial and Technical Excellence nor the Center of Excellence in Service Contracting provide adequate cloaks for the kind of protectionist and parochial budgeting endemic to the legislating process. Similarly, whether the Centers of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education is worthy of the $15 million earmarked in the budget is open to debate. 
   The Defense Appropriations bill, already signed into law, included a provision statutorily renaming National Guard armories as ``Readiness Centers,'' a particularly Orwellian use of language. By statutorily relabeling ``depot-level activities'' as ``operations at Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence,'' we further institutionalize this dubious practice, the implications of which are to deny the American public the most cost-effective use of its tax dollars. 
   In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my belief in the importance of enacting meaningful improvements for active duty and Reserve servicemembers. They risk their lives to defend our shores and preserve democracy, and we can not thank them enough for their service. But, we can and should pay them more, improve the benefits for their families, and support the Reserve Components in a manner similar to the active forces. Our servicemembers past, present, and future need these improvements. However, we can not continue with this ``business as usual" mindset. We must reform the Department of Defense and we must not fall prey to the special interest groups that attempt to warp our perspective and misdirect our spending. We owe so much more to our men and women in uniform who defend our country. They are our greatest resource, and I feel they are woefully under-represented. We must continue to do better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, we are all now aware of a terrible tragedy, an act of despicable terrorism has taken place on the U.S.S. Cole and American lives have been lost. 
   All of us are appalled. On behalf of all of us, our thoughts and prayers go out to the family members of those on the U.S.S. Cole. We hope we can get all the information as quickly as possible. 
   The United States has the ability to find out who perpetrated this outrage. We will find those people. There will be a heavy price to pay. We cannot allow these kinds of acts of terror to take place. I am confident the President of the United States will ascertain who these individuals and organizations are, and the heaviest price must be paid for this outrage. In the meantime, our thoughts, hopes, and prayers go out to those who were injured, those missing in action, and those killed in this tragedy. 
   TERRORISM 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, yesterday, the Senate took an important and critical step forward to improve our Nation's motor vehicle safety laws by passing H.R. 5164, the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability and Documentation (TREAD) Act. The bill is in response to the more than 100 deaths associated with defective Bridgestone/Firestone tires. During the debate, I intended to include a letter from Congressman BLILEY, chairman of the House Commerce Committee clarifying the intent of a provision of the bill relating to the ability of the Department of Transportation to request material from manufacturers. I ask that the letter be included in the RECORD at the conclusion of my remarks. The letter makes it clear that the provisions would not enable manufacturers to conceal or destroy information requested by the Secretary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I concur with the Senator from Missouri that a variety of new technologies are available to improve the design and construction of tires. The improved federal motor vehicle safety standard for tires should take into account all of these new technologies to ensure that consumers are provided with safe tires. Additionally, the Department should implement the rule in light of the changing mix of types of vehicles that consumers are driving. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, in just a few minutes I will propound a unanimous consent request concerning the  Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act. First, I ask unanimous consent that a letter I just received from the Secretary of Transportation be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will quote parts of the letter from Secretary Slater:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be glad to yield to the Senator from South Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from South Carolina. I understand his concerns. 
   Let me quote from a letter from the Secretary of Transportation:  
   The early warning section of H.R. 5164, enables NHTSA to obtain information about potential defects earlier than under current law. The agency will use the information in deciding whether to open an investigation and will be able to release information in the context of its investigation, as it does today. Information that is not made a part of an investigation could be released if NHTSA determines it would assist in carrying out the agency's investigative responsibilities. The bill contains a new section 30170 that augments the penalties under section 1001 of title 18, United States Code, if a person intentionally misleads the Secretary concerning a safety defect that results in death or serious injury. A ``Safe Harbor'' provision would excuse the person from the augmented penalties, but would not excuse the person from other penalties under section 1001. The Department of Justice will communicate separately its views on the criminal provisions.  
   I point out again, this is not a perfect bill. I want exactly what came out of the Senate. The House passed, unanimously, by a voice vote, H.R. 5164. 
   The Secretary of Transportation says: ``We strongly support enactment.'' He finishes up by saying--and I hope my colleagues understand this--  
   In the final days of the 106th Congress, we must not lose the opportunity to save lives and prevent injuries.  
   This is not a perfect piece of legislation but an awesome responsibility, at least in the view of the Secretary of Transportation. An opportunity to save lives and prevent injuries is occurring here. I do not think we can let that pass by. 
   If there is objection, I will, again, ask that the Senator who objects appear on the floor to object. We are not talking about a policy decision here; we are talking about the fact that over 100 lives have been taken on America's highways over a defect that, in the view of every expert, we are making significant progress in addressing. 
   So, Mr. President, I will begin with my first unanimous consent request, and I will follow it with a second unanimous consent request if it is objected to. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate receives H.R. 5164 from the House, it be held at the desk. I ask further that it be in order for the majority leader, after consultation with the Democratic leader, to proceed to consideration of the bill, and that only relevant amendments be in order to the bill, and that the bill then, as amended, if amended, be advanced to third reading and passed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Yes, that is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that it be in order for the majority leader, after consultation with the Democratic leader, to proceed to consideration of H.R. 5164 and that it be immediately advanced to third reading and passed, with no intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that it be in order for the majority leader, after consultation with the Democratic leader, to proceed to consideration of H.R. 5164 and that it be immediately advanced to third reading and passed, with no intervening action or debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as I said on Friday, this is not an ordinary piece of legislation. It is a piece of legislation that, in the view of the Secretary of Transportation, has to do with saving lives and preventing injuries. Over 100 Americans have died on the highways of America already. 
   After the completion of Senator ROBERTS' remarks, I will insist that the two Senators come down and object in person. This is too serious a business, I tell the Senator from Nevada, for them to assume a cloak of anonymity. If they want amendments, then I will be more than happy to hear their objections and see what their amendments are. But this is not acceptable. It is not acceptable, when lives are at stake, for Senators--at least the Senator from Oklahoma objects and comes down and takes the responsibility for the objection. It is not acceptable for Members on the other side of the aisle to hide behind the Senator from Nevada in their objections. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am glad to yield to the Senator from Oklahoma for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I might add, it has to do with saving lives and preventing injuries. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Let me just say that I will be here on the floor. If the two Senators who object from the other side of the aisle would like to come down, I would be glad to discuss their concerns. I would be glad to commit to holding hearings, along with Senator HOLLINGS, next year to try to perfect this bill. 
   I know my friend from South Carolina has serious concerns about the safe harbor aspect of this bill. I intend to work with him to tighten it up. I much would have preferred the bill pass through the Senate, let me tell you. 
   We inaugurated a little phrase called ``straight talk'' back when I was seeking another office. I will tell you, in straight talk, what this is all about. This is the trial lawyers against the automotive interests. Trial lawyers do not want it because they do not like the provisions. They want to be able to sue anybody for anything under any circumstances. And the automotive industry wants this thing killed, figuring that the publicity surrounding these accidents and these tragedies that are taking place will die out and they will be able to kill off this legislation next year. 
   Straight talk, Mr. President, that is really what it is all about. It is another compelling argument for campaign finance reform because neither the trial lawyers who want to make this bill untenable for the manufacturers, nor the manufacturers who want to water down this bill so dramatically that it will have no effect, should be the ones who are driving this problem. 
   This legislation is all about saving lives and preventing injuries. So what we are seeing here is that special interests are winning again. I think it is wrong. I don't know how you go back to the American people and say we didn't enact legislation--we could not get together after a unanimous vote in the House--to resolve some concerns over an issue that ``would save lives and prevent injuries.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in closing, I appreciate the efforts on the part of the Senator from Nevada. As he said, he and I came to Congress together many years ago, and we are good friends. I want to also, again, pay great praise to Senator HOLLINGS, who has really had to go a long way in compromising in order to see that this legislation is passed. I will be seeking unanimous consent tomorrow morning. I am not exactly sure when, but it will be sometime in the morning when it fits in with the parliamentary procedures. I hope the unanimous consent request can be agreed to. I thank my friend from South Carolina and the Senator from Nevada. I know we will be working assiduously to try to get these objections solved. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I have one comment in response 
   to my friend. I knew any comment about trial lawyers would not go unnoticed by him. As always, I am very appreciative of his comments. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I deeply regret that the House of Representatives failed yesterday to favorably approve S. 2438, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2000. That measure was taken up under suspension of the rules in the House, and therefore, needed two-thirds of the members present and voting to support its passage. The final vote was 232 to 158. 
   As my colleagues know, the Senate has worked long and hard to produce comprehensive pipeline safety legislation. As a result of our bipartisan efforts, we unanimously approved S. 2438 nearly four weeks ago. That measure includes the best provisions from four separate proposals pending in the Senate, including legislation introduced by Senators MURRAY and GORTON, the measure introduced by Senator HOLLINGS on behalf of the Administration, the bill introduced by Senator BINGAMAN, and the bill I introduced along with Senators MURRAY and GORTON. While the final bill may not be the preference of every member, it is a fair and balanced compromise piece of legislation and, to quote Secretary Slater, ``is critical to make much-needed improvements to the pipeline safety program. It provides for stronger enforcement, mandatory testing of all pipelines, community right-to-know information, and additional resources.'' 
   There is one and only one reason the Senate bill fell 28 votes short, preventing it from being on its way to the President at this moment: Partisan Politics. 
   I can understand the hesitation on the part of some to approve a measure that doesn't include every single provision they envision as necessary to address pipeline safety improvements. But the Senate-passed bill is a good bill and would go a long way in promoting safety improvements. Senator MURRAY said it best on the floor of the Senate just two weeks ago: ``Don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good.'' But instead of heeding that advise, the House has neither approved its own version of a pipeline safety bill nor has it approved the Senate's unanimously-passed bill. And now time is simply running out. 
   I do not relish voicing criticism toward the House opponents of S. 2438. But because of their actions, we will most likely fail to make any advancement in pipeline safety this year. And if we are ultimately prevented from enacting pipeline safety legislation in these remaining few days of the session, these and the other members working with them will be even less pleased by the criticisms I will be directing their way if even one more life is lost because of our inaction. Be assured, I will be back on this floor reminding everyone of our missed opportunity to address identified pipeline safety shortcomings due to the actions of these few members. They will be held accountable. 
   Mr. INSLEE from the State of Washington testified before the Senate Commerce Committee in May on the need to pass comprehensive legislation, noting that the ``opportunity to pass comprehensive, meaningful legislation may not come again until there is another tragedy''. Sadly, since the time Mr. INSLEE made those comments, two other accidents have occurred--claiming a total of 13 more lives. How many more lives are going to be lost before Congress finally passes pipeline safety legislation? 
   It is my understanding Mr. INSLEE has urged the Administration, members of his House delegation, and leadership on the House side, not to support the Senate bill. It is also my understanding that he has ignored advice from his own Senate colleague, Senator MURRAY, on this matter. In doing so, he is dooming the months of effort that a member of his own party, a Senator from his own home state, has put into crafting a bill that will undoubtably improve pipeline safety. His actions may have killed the only chance that pipeline safety legislation will pass this year. And in doing so, he is ensuring that even more lives may be lost--and that the unacceptable status quo will remain. 
   I support passage of the strongest safety bill possible, and I know the House members I have mentioned are fully aware of this fact. The strongest bill possible at this time is the bill we approved in the Senate three weeks  ago. Mr. INSLEE's and others' claims that their efforts are driven by a desire for a stronger bill sound well and good. But the reality is those efforts only preclude any advancement in pipeline safety from occurring. The actions of these members not only ignore the substantial steps we've made to reach a fair, balanced pro-safety bill, but also could jeopardize the likelihood we'll make any progress on pipeline safety for many years to come. 
   I urge those members obstructing action on pipeline safety legislation to think carefully about the consequences of their obstructionist actions. Each day that passes without enactment of comprehensive pipeline safety legislation places public safety at risk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, on September 19, I submitted for the RECORD, a list of objectionable provisions in the FY 2001 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. Mr. President, these line items do not violate any of the five objective criteria I use for identifying spending that was not reviewed in the appropriate merit-based prioritization process, and I regret they were included on my list. They are as follows:  
   $472,176,000 for construction projects at the following locations: 
   California, Los Angeles, U.S. Courthouse; 
   District of Columbia, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Headquarters; 
   Florida, Saint Petersburg, Combined Law Enforcement Facility; 
   Maryland, Montgomery County, Food and Drug; 
   Administration Consolidation; 
   Michigan, Sault St. Marie, Border Station; 
   Mississippi, Biloxi-Gulfport, U.S. Courthouse; 
   Montana, Eureka/Roosville, Border Station; 
   Virginia, Richmond, U.S. Courthouse; 
   Washington, Seattle, U.S. Courthouse. 
   Repairs and alterations: 
   Arizona: Phoenix, Federal Building Courthouse, $26,962,000; 
   California: Santa Ana, Federal Building, $27,864,000; 
   District of Columbia: Internal Revenue Service Headquarters; 
   (Phase 1), $31,780,000, Main State Building (Phase 3), $28,775,000; 
   Maryland: Woodlawn, SSA National Computer Center, $4,285,000; 
   Michigan: Detroit, McNamara Federal Building, $26,999,000; 
   Missouri: Kansas City, Richard Bolling Federal Building, $25,882,000; 
   Kansas City, Federal Building, 8930 Ward Parkway, $8,964,000; 
   Nebraska: Omaha, Zorinsky Federal Building, $45,960,000; 
   New York: New York City, 40 Foley Square, $5,037,000; 
   Ohio: Cincinnati, Potter Stewart U.S. Courthouse, $18,434,000; 
   Pennsylvania: Pittsburgh, U.S. Post Office-Courthouse, $54,144,000; 
   Utah: Salt Lake City, Bennett Federal Building, $21,199,000; 
   Virginia: Reston, J.W. Powell Federal Building (Phase 2), $22,993,000. 
   Nationwide: 
   Design Program, $21,915,000; 
   Energy Program, $5,000,000; 
   Glass Fragment Retention Program, $5,000,000. 
   $276,400,000 for the following construction projects: 
   District of Columbia, U.S. Courthouse Annex; 
   Florida, Miami, U.S. Courthouse; 
   Massachusetts, Springfield, U.S. Courthouse; 
   New York, Buffalo, U.S. Courthouse.  
   Mr. President, the criteria I use when reviewing our annual appropriations bills are not intended to reflect a judgment on the merits of an item. They are designed to identify projects that have not been properly reviewed. Unfortunately, on occasion, items are inadvertently included that should not be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the consideration of H.R. 5164, which is at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the bill be read the third time and passed, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and that any statements regarding the bill be printed at this point in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. That the Senate proceed to H.R. 5164. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my friend from Nevada. 
   May I just say that one thing I have learned about my friend from Nevada is that when he gives his word on an issue, he pursues that in a sincere and dedicated fashion. When he gives his word that he is going to oppose, as he has on several occasions, he is a formidable opponent. I thank the Senator from Nevada for working on this. He could have easily held this over until tomorrow and we could have gotten caught up, perhaps, in other issues. Instead, the Senator from Nevada said he would be working on this issue. He did that, and we have it resolved. I express my deep and sincere thanks to him. 
   I look forward to next year when we again have our differences on the issue of college gambling being ventilated and work together on that issue as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my friend from Nevada. 
   I should not be speaking off the top of my head, but perhaps a hearing out in the city of Las Vegas, where really 90 percent of the major boxing is conducted in America, might be something he and I could do together in the next couple of months to get the ball rolling. I thank my friend from Nevada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, last week I was blocked in my efforts to gain unanimous consent for the Senate to schedule a time for consideration of S. 3059, the Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Equipment Defect Notification Act. As you know, the Act is in response to the recent Ford/Firestone recall of 6.5 million tires and the more than 100 deaths associated with these tires. 
   Today, we are in the midst of what may likely be the last week of this legislative session. The remaining days to enact legislation to remedy indisputable flaws in the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Act are dwindling to a precious few. 
   When we began this process more than six weeks ago, I made a commitment to seek the enactment of legislation this year to remedy this problem. I also stated that we would not make the perfect the enemy of the good. Last night, the House passed by voice vote H.R. 5164, the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability and Documentation (TREAD) Act. The legislation is similar to S. 3059 and has the support of both Republicans and Democrats in the House. 
   While the House bill does not go as far as the Senate bill in some respects, it will nevertheless advance the cause of safety. It will ensure that the Department of Transportation will receive the information it needs to detect defects, including information about foreign recalls. It will increase penalties for manufacturers that fail to comply with the statute and its regulations. The maximum civil penalty under the current statute is $980,000. The House bill will increase that amount to $15 million. It will also direct the Secretary to develop a program to conduct dynamic rollover tests of motor vehicles and make that information available to consumers. It will direct NHTSA to upgrade the current tire standard for the first time in 30 years. Finally, the House bill incorporates a measure sponsored by Senator FITZGERALD and recently reported by the Senate Commerce Committee, which will improve the design of child safety seats. 
   Many of the provisions in the House bill are an improvement upon current law. The House bill is supported by the Secretary of Transportation. Nevertheless, let me be clear, I would prefer to have the Senate complete action on the bill reported by the Senate Commerce Committee with unanimous support. But holds and stalling tactics used by some members of this body will prevent us from even considering the Senate measure. The reality we face in the remaining days of Congress because of these tactics is that we pass the House bill or we pass nothing. Left with that decision, I would prefer we move forward with the House bill. 
   Some people have raised concerns that the House bill would weaken current law in several respects and it would be better to do nothing. Specifically, concerns have been 
   raised that the bill would inhibit the release of information collected by Department of Transportation to the public, that manufacturers could destroy information to avoid the reporting requirements, and that the safe harbor provisions for the enhanced penalties could apply to existing penalties. I strongly disagree with these assertions. More importantly, the supporters of the House bill both Democratic and Republicans disagree with those assertions as does the Department of Transportation which will be charged with carrying out the provisions of the Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, we went through a great deal of work in order to have the legislation passed concerning Bridgestone/Firestone. I thank the administration and Secretary Slater for all of his efforts. 
   I thank Senator HOLLINGS, who had strongly held views on this issue and yet came together with me and others. 
   I thank the Consumers Union for what they did. They are an advocacy group that, again, didn't see a perfect piece of legislation but supported this legislation. Mr. Kimmelman is a man of remarkable talents. I thank him. 
   I also want to thank Congressman UPTON and Congressman TAUZIN, who were able to get that legislation through the House of Representatives in this late period by a voice vote and thereby made it possible for this legislation to be passed. They are both remarkable legislators. I appreciate very much all they did. 
   I say to my colleagues again that this issue isn't over. Tragically, I am in fear that there will be more deaths and injuries on America's highways before we finally make it much safer for Americans to be on America's highways. I think we have taken a major step forward, and one that hopefully will save lives and prevent injuries. If that is the case, as I think most experts view this legislation, then I think we will have done something good today. 
   I thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it recess until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, October 12. I further ask consent that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day, and the Senate then proceed to H.R. 4635, the HUD-VA appropriations bill as under the previous order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from Arizona, Mr. MCCAIN, be allowed 10 minutes before the HUD-VA appropriations bill is voted on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will begin consideration of the HUD-VA appropriations bill at 9:30 a.m. There are three amendments in order and up to three stacked rollcall votes will occur at approximately 12:30 p.m. Following the final vote on the HUD-VA bill, the Senate is expected to begin consideration of the conference report to accompany the Department of Defense authorization bill. There are approximately 6 hours of debate requested on the conference report. Therefore, Senators should expect votes later in the afternoon in reference to the DOD authorization conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001011</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in recess under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 6:50 p.m., recessed until Thursday, October 12, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that it now be in order for the Senate to immediately turn to the consideration of S. 3059, and that only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the reason I am objecting to taking up the Department of Transportation appropriations report is that it contains a substantive amendment to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Act. The legislation was never approved by either House or Senate commerce committees and failed in its attempts to correct indisputable faults with safety data collection and retention practices of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
   Well over 100 Americans have died, and estimates are that as many as 150 in other countries. This is a very serious safety issue in which American lives are at stake. 
   I am simply asking to take up this legislation. I will be glad to have any amendments and time agreements associated with it--anything that we can do to move this legislation along. 
   The House Commerce Committee yesterday passed similar legislation. We are told it will be passed on the floor of the House by next Tuesday. 
   Why we can't take up this bill, which is designed according to consumer organizations, according to the Secretary of Transportation, according to all outside observers and safety experts, to stop or at least take action to reduce the number of American lives that will be lost on the highways of the United States of America is really hard to understand. 
   Let me do the best I can to explain it. 
   What is happening here is the ``fix is in.'' Here is the fix. The House will pass a bill. The Commerce Committee passed a bill, and the House will pass that bill this week. 
   We have a series of holds on this legislation which passed the Commerce Committee by a vote of 20-0 in a bipartisan fashion after getting testimony from experts from all over America, from the Secretary of Transportation, from the Acting Director of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and others. That bill is now on the calendar. There are holds on the bill. 
   Here is the fix. The House will pass the bill. The Senate will refuse to take up the bill because of holds, and we will then pass--no matter how hard I try to prevent it--the Department of Transportation appropriations safety report that contains simply language concerning what can be done about this issue. 
   I have taken the floor on many, many occasions to talk about the influence of special interests in Washington. The automotive industry is now blocking this legislation. The word is on the street. The ``fix'' is in that the bill will not pass the Senate, or pass the House so House Members can say we did what we needed to do. 
   You know what we are talking about here. We are talking about the lives of American citizens who are in danger as we speak. 
   The special interests will now prevail over safety interests, where lives of Americans are literally at stake. Remarkable. Remarkable commentary. Remarkable. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It reads:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator from Alaska has just objected to us moving forward with legislation which, in the view of any outside expert, has to do with American lives that are endangered on the highways of America due to a flaw in the Bridgestone/Firestone situation and/or Ford automobiles. 
   This is serious business. This is serious business. There has been a series of holds put on this bill. We now object to taking up this legislation in favor of an appropriations bill which has watered down language which is intended--at least in the view of some--to address part of the problem. It does not. Ask any safety expert. It does not. 
   As to the language that has been inserted in the conference bill, I guess we can all thank the advocates of safety for the provision that was in the bill that prevented the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from addressing rollover accidents for a year until a National Academy of Sciences study was completed--again, the special interests. 
   I intend to do whatever I can to see this legislation is brought up before the Senate. I hope those Senators who have a hold on this bill will step forward and identify themselves. This isn't an ordinary piece of legislation. This is a piece of legislation that has to do with the lives of American citizens and those overseas. I don't know of a more compelling problem. 
   Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the Department of Transportation appropriations report that contains a substantive amendment to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Act. This legislation was never approved by either the House or Senate Commerce committees and it fails in its attempt to correct indisputable flaws with the safety-related data collection and retention practices of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
   The language contained in the appropriations report falls short of the mark  for many reasons, but for now, I will list only the key shortcomings. First, it fails to require manufacturers to collect and report essential safety-related information that would allow the Secretary to identify potential consumer-safety issues. Second, it fails to increase penalties for violations of the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Act. And third, the language does not require NHTSA to upgrade the 30-year-old federal tire-safety standard. 
   Prompted by an August 9, 2000, announcement by Ford Motor Company and Bridgestone/Firestone to recall millions of potentially defective tires, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation held a September 12th hearing that was attended by the Secretary of Transportation, NHTSA's Acting Administrator, the parties involved in the recall, and several consumer groups. All who testified agreed that systemic changes were needed to make the processes of sharing safety-related information more efficient. In response, on September 15th, joined by my colleagues, Senators GORTON and SPECTER, I introduced S. 3059, the ``Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Equipment Defect Notification Improvement Act.'' This bill would dramatically amend the current law by ensuring NHTSA's possession of critical information regarding motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment that would enable it to make sound safety-related decisions. 
   Following the introduction of S. 3059, the House Commerce Committee began consideration of H.R. 5164, the ``Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act,'' also referred to as ``T.R.E.A.D.'' While the House's bill does not appear to be entirely adequate to correct the current law, it does seek to accomplish similar objectives as S. 3059. Therefore, I was encouraged by the possibility of compromise prior to the conclusion of the 106th Congress. However, due to the limited amount of time remaining prior to the adjournment of this Congress, the differences of the House bill, and the unapproved actions taken by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, I offer today a narrower version of S. 3059 that I hope that my colleagues would support. 
   Mr. President, I would like to outline what the new version of the bill would do: 
   Reporting requirements: The bill would direct the Secretary to collect additional safety-related information from manufacturers; specifically, it would mandate that the Secretary require manufacturers to collect and report new information about defects--including 
   information about foreign recalls, but only to the extent that the information may assist in the identification of potential defects related to motor vehicle safety or failures to meet the federal motor vehicle safety standards. This information would include accidents or incidents, claims data, warranty adjustment data, and other safety-related information. The method, manner and extent of the collection of this data would be determined through rulemaking by the Secretary. 
   Civil penalties: This legislation would increase the Motor Vehicle Safety chapter's maximum civil penalty from $800,000 to $15,000,000, and allow for the assessment of larger civil penalties for intentional and willful acts. 
   Criminal penalties: The Secretary would be authorized to assess criminal penalties for knowingly violating provisions of the Motor Vehicle Safety Act, which results in death or grievous bodily harm. This provision of the bill has been the subject of much discussion. Let me briefly describe what would be required for a manufacturer to be subject to criminal penalties under this section. The manufacturer, their officers or directors, would have to order, authorize, or ratify the introduction of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment into interstate commerce while knowing that the motor vehicle or equipment violated federal safety standards, that violation created a serious danger of an accident that would result in death or serious injury, and death or such injury occurs. Let me be clear, the standard required under this provision is ``actual knowledge.'' This provision is intended to provide the option of criminal penalties only in instances of conduct that are so egregious as to render civil penalties meaningless. 
   The inclusion of a criminal penalties provision has received support from the Secretary of Transportation, Jacques Nasser, who is the President and CEO of Ford Motor Company, and consumer groups such as Public Citizen. This type of penalty is not novel. Multiple agencies are authorized to assess criminal penalties, including, among others, the Department of Labor, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency. This provision would authorize the Secretary, in conjunction with the U.S. Attorney General, to pursue criminal penalties against automobile manufacturers in instances where State governments may not have the resources to enforce their relevant law. 
   Updating safety standards: Finally, this bill would require NHTSA to upgrade the tire-safety standard for the first time in 30 years. 
   Regardless of whether the House or Senate version of the bill is enacted, the need for this legislation was triggered by the possibility that Ford and Bridgstone/Firestone may have had knowledge of a safety-related problem concerning the performance of certain tire models prior to the recall, but refrained from reporting even the possibility of a defect to NHTSA. Notwithstanding whether or not the manufacturers knew of the problem, the situation focused my attention, as well as the attention of my colleagues, to flaws that exist in the reporting processes between manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment, and NHTSA. S. 3059 would amend the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Act to make it more difficult for manufacturers to knowingly conceal safety-related information from the Secretary 
   of Transportation and increase the penalties for such unlawful conduct. 
   Under current law, manufacturers are not required to report to NHTSA either ``claims data,'' which include personal injury or property damage claims that can be helpful early-warning indicators of potential threats to consumer safety, or overseas actions involving equipment and vehicles sold in the United States. Furthermore, should manufacturers fail to report safety-related information that is required by the Secretary, the maximum civil penalty allowable under the current law is a mere $980,000. To put this in perspective, last year Ford Motor Company spent $2.57 billion on advertising. Other than minor adjustments over the last two years, the maximum civil penalty has not been updated since its enactment, which means, at a minimum, if adjusted for inflation it should be five times that amount in the year 2000. Finally, the current law does not allow for the assessment of criminal penalties for particularly egregious conduct. The absence of criminal penalties coupled with a nominal maximum civil penalty creates an environment where meaningful enforcement is impossible commonplace. This bill would change that practice. 
   Mr. President, thus far, NHTSA has linked more than 100 deaths to the failures of Bridgestone/Firestone tires that are subject to the current recall. Each day it becomes more apparent that these deaths may have been avoided had NHTSA possessed vital safety-related information that the law does not currently require manufacturers to report. The legislation that I have introduced does not accomplish all of the needed reforms, but it is a positive step toward a more efficient exchange of safety-related information between the Secretary and manufacturers. Nevertheless, S. 3059 is being held up partly due to the influence of the automotive industry. The lives of American consumers are being placed at risk. We must act quickly to resolve the flaws in NHTSA's data-collection processes and prevent the recurrence of this crisis. 
   I express my deep disappointment that the ``fix'' is in from the special interests. This bill will be held and will not be passed by the Senate; it will be passed by the House. Guess what. We couldn't do anything. I hope the American people are well informed by the media and by those family members who have lost loved ones and by the public safety advocate who see what is happening here. It is not my proudest moment in the Senate. 
   I yield the floor.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I await the return of the Senator from Alaska, who I believe would like to object to a unanimous consent agreement I may seek. 
   If the Senator from Connecticut is waiting, perhaps we can extend morning business for a few minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I apologize to the Chair. I thought when I left the floor that morning business had expired at 11 a.m. 
   I will await 11:15. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I come back to try to resolve this issue. Before I ask for another unanimous consent agreement with some different language, I ask unanimous consent to have printed in the RECORD a letter from the Secretary of Transportation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will read a portion of the letter:  
   I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my views regarding the penalty structure for Department of Transportation regulatory agencies such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). I expressed these views in testimony on the Firestone tire recall before the full committee on September 12, 2000.  
   and the last paragraph: 
   Most important, however, is expeditious action on comprehensive legislation that will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects. I will work with you in any way I can to help shape legislation that the Congress can approve and the President can sign into law.  
   I repeat for my colleagues what the Secretary of Transportation says:  
   Most important, however, is expeditious action on comprehensive legislation that will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects.  
   This legislation passed through the committee with the help of the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, a member of that committee, a valued member of that committee. This legislation passed through the Commerce Committee with the support of the majority leader of the Senate, a valued member of that committee. 
   Although I don't agree with the Transportation appropriations bill, I am not interested in blocking it. I am interested in trying to get action on this legislation before Congress adjourns. 
   I ask the Senator from Alaska if it would be acceptable if I modified the unanimous consent agreement to say that the majority leader, after consultation with the Democrat leader, would set a specific time and date for this legislation to be considered, and  only relevant amendments to the bill be in order of S. 3059. 
   It seems to me we could then achieve the goal of having a time and date where we could address this issue, we could move forward with the important appropriations bill, which understandably the Senator from Alaska has as his highest priority, which is also understandable given the fact that he is the chairman of the Appropriations Committee. 
   I ask the Senator from Alaska if he would consider--and I will ask now--I ask unanimous consent that the majority leader, after consultation with the Democrat leader, could set a specific time and date for the consideration to S. 3059 and that only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Before the Senator from Alaska leaves the floor, I would like to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Claiming the floor, it is clear on that side of the aisle there is no objection to this unanimous consent request. 
   I don't understand the comment of the Senator from Alaska about nobody has read the bill and no one understands the bill. We passed it 2 weeks ago out of the committee, No. 1. No. 2, this is not a low visibility issue. No. 3, we want to pass this bill through the Senate. The House will be passing the bill and we will go through the normal procedures. 
   I want to say again to the Senator from Alaska, on an issue of this importance--he said Members on both sides have reservations or objections; clearly, it is on this side of the aisle--come down with relevant amendments. We can reach time agreements and go through the normal process. But to block consideration at any time between now and when we leave is a clear message, I say in all due respect to the Senator from Alaska, that there is an intention to block consideration of the passage of this bill. 
   I can understand the objection of the Senator from Alaska to me holding up the consideration of the Transportation appropriations bill. I can fully understand that. I cannot understand why the leadership would not agree to taking up this bill with relevant amendments sometime between now and when we go out. 
   So, with all due respect to the Senator from Alaska, I don't get it. I do not understand why, when there is no objection on the other side of the aisle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. With all due respect to the Senator from Alaska, you have to respect the statement of the leader of the other side of the aisle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent to yield to the Senator from Nevada for a statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I think it is abundantly clear, I say to the Senator from Alaska, there is no objection to moving forward on that side of the aisle. The problem is on this side of the aisle. 
   Why in the world can't we come to an agreement, when the Secretary of Transportation says:  
   Most important, however, is expeditious action on comprehensive legislation that will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects.  
   We are talking about a life-threatening situation here. 
   So all I can say is it is clear the problem seems to be on this side of the aisle. I am asking the Senator from Alaska, who represents the leadership, to agree to this unanimous consent request, which I think is eminently reasonable. So I guess, Mr. President, I will ask again, if I could get the attention of the Senator from Alaska, since it is clear there is no objection to this unanimous consent request from the other side of the aisle--and I am not trying to impede the progress of the Transportation appropriations bill. We are only trying to get addressed the issue that there are life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects--if we at least could have some agreement. If there are objections to the legislation, then those objections, it seems to me, could be articulated in the form of relevant amendments. 
   So, again, I don't understand the explanation of the Senator from Alaska. The bill was passed 2 weeks ago. This is a very high visibility issue. We would take it up and pass it. The House is going to pass this legislation next Tuesday, according to all news reports. We could pass it, go to conference, and get this legislation to the President of the United States unless it is blocked on this side of the aisle--on this side of the aisle. This is a bill that passed 20-0 with the support of the majority leader, with the support of the chairman of the Appropriations Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I am glad to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I have been urging it, I respond to my colleague. Since the day after we passed it, I have been begging the leadership every day to bring up this bill for 
   consideration. This has been blocked. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I appreciate the question of the Senator from Wyoming because we have been trying to do everything we can to bring this bill up. That is why--because I have been stymied in these efforts--I had to come to the floor this morning to try to force some action on it since there was no response from our leadership, on this side, because of holds on the bill and objections to it. 
   I again ask unanimous consent that the majority leader, in consultation with the Democratic leader, establish a specific time and date for consideration of S. 3059, and that only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Could I respond quickly to the Senator from Alaska? This is not a House bill; this is a Senate bill I am asking to have considered on the floor of the Senate as we regularly do with legislation in the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Could I just say again, and I want to clarify for the benefit of the Senator from Alaska, this is a Senate bill. It was passed through the Commerce Committee by a vote of 20-0. Yesterday, the House, by a vote of 42-0, passed through their committee similar legislation, although not the same legislation. They announced they would be passing their legislation next Tuesday. 
   What I am seeking is for us to be able to pass the Senate bill and go to conference, as is normal. 
   I should not do this, but I want to make another commitment to the Senator from Alaska because of the time constraints, and that is, if there are 50 relevant amendments filed and it looks as if the bill is going to be filibustered to death and we are not going to be able to pass it, then I will ask that the legislation be withdrawn at that time because I understand the time constraints under which the chairman of the Appropriations Committee is operating. 
   All I am asking is it be brought up with relevant amendments, as it will be passed by the House next Tuesday, and conferees will be appointed, as is normal, and we will go to conference and report out legislation hopefully that can be passed before we go out of session. 
   I say again to the Senator from Alaska, one, we passed it 2 weeks ago; two, the House has acted in their committee, and they will be passing the bill next Tuesday. Right now we have no assurance of any kind that we can in any way take up this bill at any time. So when the Senator from Alaska objects on behalf of the leadership to consideration at any time that would be in keeping with the majority leader's schedule, then it is clear the effect is to kill the legislation, and we are talking about, as the Secretary of Transportation says, ``Most important, however, is expeditious action on comprehensive legislation that will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects.'' 
   I ask the chairman of the Appropriations Committee if he will do the following: If we can just go into a quorum call for 10 minutes and see if the leadership will allow this unanimous consent request to move forward. I am not interested in embarrassing the leadership. In fact, I am interested in not embarrassing the leadership because if there is no objection on the other side of the aisle and there is an objection on this side of the aisle to taking up the legislation at any time, that is really not good. That is not a good thing to happen. I speak as a Member on this side of the aisle. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the majority leader, in consultation with the Democratic leader, set a time and date for consideration of S. 3059, and that only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I withdraw my unanimous consent request. I also assure the majority leader that if it appears as if there is going to be an avalanche of relevant amendments to which we cannot get time agreements, then I am not interested in tying up the entire Senate on that legislation. But I do believe that it is important that we take it up, obviously. I am grateful the other side doesn't object to the unanimous consent agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the United States' transportation infrastructure is vital to its success as a nation. The ability to regulate and move goods and people safely and efficiently by land, air and sea has defined industrialized countries, nationally and internationally, for centuries. With our economy prospering, there have been significant increases in travel and movement of goods across our country. As a result, it is essential that critical transportation safety and policy programs get proper funding. This Transportation Appropriations conference report takes some appropriate steps in that direction. 
   However, while I agree with the need for increased funding, I do not agree with the need for increased pork. Unfortunately, once again, the appropriations committee has adopted the mantra that increased funding for necessary programs equals increased pork-barrel spending for parochial projects. 
   Mr. President, while I was speaking on the floor Monday, I read aloud from an article in that day's Wall Street Journal about the Congressional scramble to wrap up budget negotiations while at the same time, a frantic chase was underway by members seeking to ensure they could take home plenty of earmarked port barrel projects for their districts and states. Well, that article was like reading a crystal ball. And this enormously bloated transportation bill takes the cake. It illustrates one of the most gluttonous, pork-driven, self-serving spending agendas we've seen yet. 
   Therefore, once again I must rise to object to the immense amount of special projects that have been earmarked in a conference report. Through the appropriations conference, legislators have tacked on millions of dollars in special interest ``projects''. These projects are pure pork tacked on for the benefit of a particular area or community. While some of these projects may not be objectionable on their merits, the process by which they are added is unconscionable. 
   During closed-door conferences, decisions were made to tack on millions of dollars in special projects. Other members were not allowed to participate in, or vote on, the outcome. While democracy is the foundation of our government, the democratic process is shut out of these closed-door proceedings. Members were not even allowed to view the contents of this report until early this morning, even though it has been reported the conference was completed Tuesday morning. No member should be asked to consider a 146 page bill and 236 page report they were given no time to review. I do not think the managers of this legislation, nor, more importantly, the leadership of this chamber, should be at all proud of how this process has been handled. Indeed, this is not the kind of leadership we can expect the American voters to embrace. 
   This earmarking process takes away the discretion of the very Federal agencies created and empowered to disburse federal funding. At the current levels of earmarking, we should just save the American taxpayers billions of dollars and abolish all Federal agencies and let the appropriators dole out money directly without any oversight. 
   This transportation appropriations conference report adds more than $3 billion over the Administration's FY 2001 funding request. 
   According to published reports, and I must rely on them, since neither I nor my staff have been allowed to view the  report until moments ago, more than $2 billion of these funds are earmarked for highway and bridge projects. 
   I note $600 million is earmarked for the project to replace the Woodrow Wilson Bridge over the Potomac River between Virginia and Maryland. The project already was given an earmark of $900 million through the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st Century, TEA-21--that is, $900 million in addition to the billions of dollars each state receives in their annual highway funding allocation. To add insult to injury, the additional money is being taken from the budget surplus. 
   Mr. President, mark my word, that project is the next ``Big Dig'' in the making. The estimated costs of the project have already soared from $1.9 billion to $2.5 billion--and you can bet those costs will keep going up and up and up. 
   Besides earmarking more than $2 billion in extra funds for highway and bridge projects, of which the Wilson Bridge receives 25 percent of, the conference managers earmarked nearly every other dollar available in the bill. 
   These earmarks reportedly include $102 million for the U.S. 82 bridge over the Mississippi River at Greenville, Mississippi, $100 million for I-49 in Arkansas and almost $20 million for I-69 in Tennessee. Mr. President, there are a lot of roads and bridges that need rehabilitation; I don't understand why Congress is substituting its judgment for the judgment of Federal agencies. 
   In addition, there have been a reported $700 million in transit earmarks for the Chicago Metro and Transit Authority in the home state of the Speaker of the House, for a rapid transit bus project at Dulles International Airport in the home state of the Chairman of the House Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee and for the Minneapolis Hiawatha project in the home district of the ranking member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   According to his own press releases, and again, I had to rely on them since I had no real opportunity to view the bill, the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation has managed to earmark almost $300 million in transportation funds for his home state. Again that is $300 million in personal projects for his state! 
   Included in this amount is $100 million for the construction of ``Corridor X'', a 97 mile highway through northwest Alabama; $34 million for construction of the Birmingham Northern Beltline; $10 million to construct a Transportation Technology Center at Auburn University; $3 million to the State of Alabama to develop a training program for jobs in the automobile manufacturing field. 
   The conference report also provides $9 million to replace the Whitesburg Bridge in Alabama; $5 million for the Mobile Alabama Maritime Center; $2.5 million to initiate on-campus shuttle bus service at the University of South Alabama; $2 million for the University of Alabama-Birmingham to acquire fuel cell buses; and $2 million to the University of North Alabama to improve transit and pedestrian access. 
   Mr. President, this is taxpayer money used to fund the personal pork projects of the appropriators. And I have never seen the levels of pork that we are reaching. 
   This year, for the first time ever, the appropriators have earmarked $300 million for specific discretionary projects in the FAA airport improvement program. This past year, we fought long and hard with the appropriators and budgeteers to ensure that there was increased funding for airport infrastructure. This was necessary to attempt to keep up with the significant increase in air travel over the past 10 years and the expected increase over the next 10. I congratulate Congress for meeting the agreed upon levels of authorizations. 
   However, now that we have increased funding, the appropriators feel as if they have the necessary knowledge and expertise to determine where $300 million of these monies should go. Mr. President, I realize that as members of Congress, we travel a great deal. However, I don't believe that experience supplies members with the necessary wisdom to replace FAA's judgment on which projects deserve merit and which projects do not. 
   The FAA is tasked with the safety of our aviation system. But Congress won't let it do the job. Now we are saying to--indeed, the bill directs--the FAA to spend this increased funding where Congress wants it to, not where it is needed. Mr. President, this is obscene and untenable. 
   Mr. President, I could go on and on about pork-barrel spending and its effect on the taxpayer, but I will conclude with this thought. We have acted responsibly to increase funding, we are not acting responsibly by denoting where this money should go. I ask unanimous consent that examples of this port barrel spending from the transportation appropriations conference report be entered in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I am doing a unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the majority leader, in consultation with the Democrat leader, establish a date certain and time certain for consideration of S. 3059, and that only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Could I have the reason for the objection? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. It is my request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, before the Senator from Alabama leaves the floor, the Senator from Alabama should understand what he is doing. 
   This bill came out 2 weeks ago. This bill came out 2 weeks ago and there are relevant amendments that are in order. The Senator from Alabama is going to bear responsibility for our failure to act. 
   Mr. President, I quote to the Senator from Alabama what the Secretary of Transportation says:  
   More importantly, however, is expeditious action on comprehensive legislation that will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects.  
   I tell the Senator from Alabama, if we don't act expeditiously, we will not address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects. 
   The Senator from Alabama can have all the amendments he wants that are relevant, and he can have all the time he wants that is relevant. By blocking the bill, the Senator from Alabama assumes great responsibility, great responsibility. I hope he has a chance to talk to the relatives of those who have already been killed, and those who are going to be killed if this legislation is killed. 
   Again, I ask unanimous consent that the majority leader, in consultation with the Democrat leader, establish a date certain and a time certain for consideration of S. 3059, and only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
   For the benefit of my colleagues, that doesn't mean there is any time limit or any limits on amendments. An objection to this can only be viewed as obstructionism. I say again, expeditious action on comprehensive legislation will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects. 
   I intend to come back to the floor in about 15 minutes and propound this unanimous consent agreement again, if there is an objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object, I will want to have 10 minutes following Senator DOMENICI for the purpose of propounding another unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield to me just for a comment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Alabama. I will be back in 2 hours. I want to assure him I understand those concerns, particularly on criminal sanctions. No one knows the situation better than the Senator from Alabama, who was a former attorney general of his State, who has more knowledge on those issues than I do. I want to work with the Senator from Alabama on that. That is why relevant  amendments will be in order. I just hope the Senator from Alabama will allow this to move forward when we propound it again. 
   Again, I understand very well the concerns he has. That is why the unanimous consent agreement calls for simply relevant amendments, with no time limit. I think the stark political reality around here, as the Senator from Alabama knows, is that we are not coming back in until Wednesday. If the Senator from Alabama and others who object just have numerous amendments, there is no way we are going to be able to get a bill passed and then into conference with the House and move forward. So I thank the Senator from Alabama for his consideration. I understand his concerns. I look forward very much to working with him. 
   I yield and I thank my colleague from Montana for his indulgence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to use 4 or 5 of those minutes in case someone who might object to the unanimous consent agreement would have time to come to the floor. I would like to say, within about 5 minutes I am going to try to get the unanimous consent agreement again. 
   Mr. President, this is from October 9, 2000, a copy of Newsweek magazine:  
   At first, the death of 14-year-old cheerleader Jessica LeAnn Taylor seemed simply to be a tragic tire failure. While heading for a football game in Mexia, Texas, on a hot October afternoon in 1998, the Ford Explorer in which Taylor was riding flipped after its left rear Firestone tire shredded at 70 miles an hour. Jessica's grieving parents sued Bridgestone/Firestone in March 1999. But over the last two months, as congressional investigators probed the recall of 6.5 million Firestone tires, the Taylors became convinced that Ford Motor Co. shares the blame for their daughter's death. So late last month the Taylors sued Ford, too, and when the case goes to trial next spring, the Taylors' lawyer Randy Roberts says he will tell the jury: ``A piece of tire tread never killed anybody. People die when the vehicle rolls over. And the responsibility for the design and occupant protection of that vehicle belongs to Ford.'' 
   Since the safety crisis began, Ford executives have argued the recall was strictly a ``tire issue.'' But as the death toll mounts to 101 lives, [it has exceeded that since then] questions about the stability of the Explorer are shifting the focus onto Ford. The carmaker is facing 80 lawsuits involving Explorers equipped with Firestones that shred at high speeds. Meanwhile, Firestone is consistently trying to blame Ford. ``We could remove every one of our tires from the Explorer, and rollovers and serious accidents will continue,'' Firestone executive John Lampe told a congressional panel.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, there have been well over 100 deaths. Last weekend, a 10-year-old boy was killed when the driver of a Firestone-equipped Explorer had an accident near Laredo, TX. Authorities said at least one of the tires was shredded. 
   I am not going to repeat every human tragedy that takes place here.  But we passed a bill out of the Commerce Committee on a 20-0 vote. The majority leader is a member of that committee. He supported it. All Republican members had an opportunity to amend it, as well as those on the other side of the aisle. 
   I would like to repeat; I have a letter from the Secretary of Transportation. In the last paragraph, he says:  
   Most important, however, is expeditious action on comprehensive legislation that will strengthen NHTSA's ability to address life-threatening motor vehicle safety defects. I will work with you in any way I can to help shape legislation the Congress can approve and the President can sign into law. 
   Sincerely, Rodney Slater.  
   Mr. President, the Members of the House of Representatives are here to meet with me. They just passed a bill through the House, 42-0, from their committee. 
   They are prepared to take it to the floor of the House on Tuesday, is my understanding from Chairman TAUZIN and Congressman Upton. Congressman UPTON, by the way, as we all know, is from a State where the vehicles under question are manufactured and one of the reasons he has taken a lead role here. 
   I hope we can get this agreement. I emphasize again my commitment to the Presiding Officer, the Senator from Alabama, to work with him on serious concerns that he has about this issue. I assure the Senator from Alabama, again, my respect for him, his experience as former attorney general of his State, and I believe his views and his input will be very important. 
   Also, in this unanimous consent request, there is no time limit and only relevant amendments are in order. It would be fairly easy, the way the Senate works, in the remaining days--because my understanding is now we will not be back until next Wednesday--it would be fairly easy to block this legislation, although I certainly hope that will not be the case. 
   Again, I thank the Senator from Alabama for his consideration of this issue. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that it now be in order for the majority leader and the Democratic leader to determine the specific time and date for the consideration of S. 3059 and that only relevant amendments to the bill be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I appreciate the concerns of the Senator from Ohio and I respect his right to object. I intend to work with the Senator to resolve his concerns either before we move the bill or through the amendment process. As I have said from the beginning, all I am seeking is an opportunity for the Senate to address this matter before we adjourn. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I was told by the majority leader that if Senators had objections, they would come to the floor themselves. That was the word I had from the majority leader, that those who had objections would come themselves. I have his word on that, so I took his word. 
   I think the Senator from New Mexico should know that was the word I was given by the majority leader of the Senate; That they would have to come down and object to this unanimous consent request themselves. So I hope the Senator from New Mexico will withdraw his objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from New Mexico. 
   Will the Senator from New Mexico, for the RECORD, say which Member or Members are objecting to this legislation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I did not imply the Senator had to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, it is of interest that the Members on the other side of the aisle have no objection to moving forward with this legislation, this unanimous consent request. Therefore, I intend to continue to propound the unanimous consent request as long as it seems there might be some way to do so. 
   I say to the Senator from New Mexico--and I say this more in sorrow than anger--by objecting, you do take responsibility in not allowing this legislation to go forward, and I regret that deeply. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I withhold. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank you for your response. The fact is, the Senator from New Mexico lodged the objection. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20001006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Absolutely. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, once again, we are witness to the belated if inevitable fall of a tyrannical regime that failed to convince the population under its control that its worst enemy lay outside that nation's borders. As I speak, the Serbian people are storming Yugoslavia's Parliament building and seizing television stations. In the town of Kolubara, coal miners and tens of thousands of supporters have openly and peacefully defied the Milosevic regime's efforts at stemming the tide of history. A regime that stands accused of crimes against humanity is on its deathbed, and the United States must not hesitate to declare its unequivocal support for those brave enough to defy that regime. 
   The people of Yugoslavia have spoken very clearly. They turned out to elect a new President, and Slobodan Milosevic's efforts to manipulate the democratic process has not succeeded. The formidable internal security apparatus that Milosevic and his supporters in the Socialist Party, as well as the Yugoslav United Left, the Communist organization led by his wife Mirjana Markovic, have established cannot save him. 
   The new defense doctrine President Milosevic approved just 2 months ago listed as its highest priority preservation of the regime that today finds itself under the gravest threat to its survival. While the United States must exercise care in how its role in developments in Serbia are perceived, it must not fail to lend its moral support to those fighting for democracy. 
   Since 1992, the Balkans have been the scene of the bloodiest fighting in Europe since World War II. The wars that have ravaged Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo produced a list of war criminals that will take years to try, in the event they are brought to justice. A tremendous amount of the blame for that situation resides in one man--Slobodan Milosevic. He was instrumental in creating the environment in which those atrocities occurred and presided over military campaigns that gave the world a new and onerous phrase: ethnic cleansing. 
   There are those who believe the United States did not have a role to play in supporting democratization in Serbia. Those of us who supported S.720, the Serbia Democratization Act, however, have remained firm in our conviction that U.S. support for democracy in that troubled nation was  something to be proud of and could play a positive role in facilitating positive change in Yugoslavia. That S.720 has remained stuck in the House is unfortunate, but the message that it sent merely by its introduction was powerful. We cannot selectively stand for freedom and should not be ashamed that it provides the moral foundation of our foreign policy. Ongoing events in Serbia illustrate vividly the intense desire for democracy in Serbia and the United States should not hesitate to state its strong support for the election of Vojislav Kostunica and for the forces of change in Yugoslavia. 
   The Balkan powderkeg is facing its most promising period of change since the end of the Cold War. We should not be idle witnesses to that change. I urge the House to speak forcefully on this issue by passing the Serbia Democratization Act at once. The symbolism of U.S. support for democratic change will not play into the hands of a discredited regime in its death throes. On the contrary, it will tell the people of Yugoslavia that we stand with them on the verge of a new era. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, first, I congratulate Mr. FITZGERALD, the Senator from Illinois, for his valiant effort to prevent a contract to be let without any competition. I do not understand why contracts that entail expenditure of taxpayers' funds should not be let in a competitive fashion so that the taxpayers can receive the maximum value for their investments in their Government. I congratulate Senator FITZGERALD for his valiant effort. 
   This year's final agreement provides a much-needed infusion of funding for conservation, wildlife management, and Native American programs. However, once again, I express my objections to the amount of excessive pork barrel spending and extraneous legislative riders included in this final agreement. 
   The agreement exceeds its overall budget by $2.5 billion, increasing spending by 25 percent, with funding levels that are close to $4 billion higher than the House bill and $3 billion more than the Senate bill. 
   We are entering a remarkable phase of American political history. The spigot is on, and it is on in a fashion I have not seen in the years I have spent in the Congress. 
   The new conference agreement has taken pork barrel spending to higher proportions by adding more than $120 million more in earmarks that either were not included in the Senate or House bill or added funding for unrequested or unauthorized projects. In addition to higher amounts of pork barrel spending, appropriators conveniently designated billions more in emergency spending, including nearly $30 million in ``emergency funds'' for locale-specific earmarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to discuss a subject of great importance to our nation and its economy, that is rail transportation. 
   Earlier today, a few of my colleagues expressed views alleging a failure by this Congress for not passing legislation to regulatorily address rail service and shipper problems. As Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, I want to set the record straight concerning the work of the Committee to address service and shipper problems. 
   Since becoming Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, the Committee has held no less than six hearings during which rail service and shipper issues were addressed. Three were field hearings, one each in Montana, North Dakota, and Kansas. Three hearings were conducted here in the Senate at which the topic of rail service dominated the testimony and members' questioning. I also have publicly stated a willingness for the Committee to hold even more hearings. 
   Further, Senator HUTCHISON, the Chairman of the Surface Transportation Subcommittee, and I requested the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to conduct a comprehensive analysis of rail service and competitive issues. The STB is the federal agency which oversees rail service and other matters. The Board's findings are extremely important and they were widely discussed during our Committee hearings last year. In addition, earlier this year the Board announced it would conduct a proceeding to change its merger guidelines in recognition of the drastically changed rail industry dynamic that has transformed since the rail deregulation movement of the late 1970's and the 1980's. The Board announced its new guidelines proposal earlier this week and will be taking comments on the proposal through November 17. 
   Three very diverse bills concerning the STB's authorities have been introduced in the Senate and another bill was submitted in the House. However, to date no consensus on a legislative approach has been achieved. I have had the privilege to serve in Congress nearly twenty years and during that time I have learned that significant legislation is always the product of careful analysis and bipartisan compromise. Pending rail legislation and the STB's future will be no exception. 
   My colleagues from North Dakota and West Virginia referred to a letter with 277 signatures seeking rail regulatory changes. I am in receipt of that letter. But I am also in receipt of literally hundreds of letters--letters from Governors, rail shippers, and others--strongly opposing any rail reregulatory efforts. 
   To allege the Senate Commerce Committee doesn't take the issue of rail service seriously is a gross misstatement. The fact is, and I will repeat it, there is no consensus. A bill supported by only five members is not a solution, but it does allow those sponsors to sound high and mighty about their good intentions. 
   In order to pass a bill and send it to the President, we clearly have a long way to go. But I remain optimistic, and as a deregulator, stand ready to support any proposal that fairly and safely balances the needs of shippers and carriers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my strong support for S. 2045, the American Competitiveness in the Twenty-First Century Act. Although it deals ostensibly with the visa cap on foreign-born high-tech workers, its effect would be far more profound--to enhance the dynamism of the American economy at a time when U.S. companies, if given access to the necessary resources, are poised to dominate the Information Age for decades to come. As the representatives of the American people, we in Congress should do all we can to contribute to their potential for success in the global economy. 
   I am convinced that the best thing government can often do to advance the fortunes of the private sector is to stay out of its way. I support this bill because it makes progress toward that end, by improving companies' flexibility to hire the talent they need, while providing for the regulatory framework and new educational opportunities to protect and promote American workers. By raising the arbitrary cap on temporary immigrant visas for skilled foreign workers--a cap set in 1990 and insufficiently increased in  1998--this legislation gets government out of the way of American companies, universities, and research labs which simply cannot hire the skilled professionals they need in the domestic labor market because of an arbitrary, anachronistic cap on H-1B visas that does not reflect the forces of supply and demand in the American economy today. 
   T.J. Rodgers, president and CEO of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, captures best the logic of the H-1B program when he says, ``It takes two percent of Americans to feed us all, and five percent to make everything we need. Everything else will be service and information technology, and in that world humans and brains will be the key variable. Any country that would limit its brain power to a single select group from that country alone is going to self-destruct.'' 
   The American Competitiveness Act of 1998, which I co-sponsored, raised the annual cap on H-1B visas for skilled professionals from 65,000 in Fiscal Year 1998 to 115,000 in both FY 1999 and FY 2000, and to 107,500 in FY 2001. Nonetheless, even the higher number of H-1B admissions authorized by Congress for FY 1999 was reached only eight months into that fiscal year, and the FY 2000 cap was reached in March 2000, or only six months into the current fiscal year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the full Senate will now consider S. 2412, the National Transportation Safety Board Amendments Act of 2000. 
   The National Transportation Safety Board, NTSB, is one of our nation's most critical governmental agencies, charged with determining the probable cause of transportation accidents and promoting transportation safety. Among its many duties, the Board investigates accidents, conducts safety studies, and evaluates the effectiveness of other government agencies' programs for preventing transportation accidents. Since its inception in 1967, the NTSB has investigated more than 110,000 aviation accidents, at least 10,000 other accidents in the surface modes and issued more than 11,000 safety recommendations. 
   The Safety Board is currently experiencing a high level of major accident investigations, many of which are extremely complex. We must act to ensure the Board has the necessary personnel and resources to complete these challenging investigations and carry out its statutory mission. 
   Given the very limited time remaining during this Congress, the Commerce Committee has worked with the House Transportation and Infrastructure, T&I, Committee in an effort to develop legislation that both Chambers could accept without modification. Both of our Committees want to ensure the NTSB's authorizing legislation can be enacted as soon as possible. 
   I want to commend Senator HOLLINGS, the Ranking member of the Senate Commerce Committee and House T&I Chairman, BUD SHUSTER, and Ranking Member, JIM OBERSTAR for their assistance in developing the package I bring before the Senate today. The accompanying Manager's Amendment is the product of our joint discussions and resolves the differences in the House-passed and Commerce Committee-passed versions of the NTSB authorizing legislation.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001003</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to express my strong support for the Airport Security Improvement Act of 2000, S. 2440. This bill was introduced in April by Senator HUTCHISON and cosponsored by several other Senators, including myself. In June, the Commerce Committee favorably reported S. 2440, which was crafted to address several serious concerns associated with aviation security in this country. 
   The bill was introduced in the wake of an Aviation Subcommittee hearing chaired by Senator HUTCHISON on the current state of aviation security. Prior to the hearing, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the General Accounting Office (GAO) conducted a closed briefing with respect to some of the more sensitive information in this area. Given concerns raised by the GAO and the Department of Transportation's Inspector General, a consensus developed that legislation was needed to address some of the more glaring deficiencies in the current system. 
   As reported by the committee, S. 2440 would do the following: require criminal history records checks for all baggage and security checkpoint screeners; expand the list of criminal convictions that disqualify an individual from being employed as a security screener; increase the amount of classroom and on-the-job training required of airline security screeners; require the FAA to work with air carriers and airport operators to strengthen procedures to prevent unauthorized access to aircraft; hold security personnel individually responsible for security lapses through progressive disciplinary measures; require the FAA to improve security at its own air traffic control facilities; and increase random screening of checked bags for explosives. 
   I believe these are all necessary steps for the improvement of aviation security. No system can ever be perfect, but we must continue to strive for an air transportation system that is as secure as reasonably possible. On the whole, security at U.S. airports appears to be good at this time. But, as I have said before, we cannot relax our efforts, especially given the significant growth in air travel. The threats to our nation remain real, and the airline industry unfortunately remains an attractive target. 
   In closing, I commend Senator HUTCHISON for her hard work on this bill. She has done a fine job of taking the lead on this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, first I want to discuss an issue that is of sometimes importance, the Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Equipment Defect Notification Improvement Act. 
   Last week, the Commerce Committee reported S. 3059, the Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Equipment Defect Notification Improvement Act. The bill is in response to the systemic failure of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the motor vehicle industry to share information that could have prevented the fatalities that resulted in the recent recall of millions of Bridgestone/Firestone tires. 
   The key provisions of the bill would insure that NHTSA has the information that it needs from manufacturers to make sound decisions, including information about recalls in foreign countries. This legislation would increase penalties to deter manufacturers from withholding valuable information about recalls and establish appropriate penalties for the most egregious actions that place consumers in danger. It would also require NHTSA to upgrade the Federal motor vehicle safety standard for tires, which has not been updated since its adoption more than 30 years ago. 
   It is my understanding that a few Members have placed holds on this bill for various reasons--I think there are two--including opposition to the inclusion of criminal penalties for violating motor vehicle safety standards. Clearly, each member is entitled to place a hold on measures to which they object, but I hope that members can understand the importance of acting on the key provisions of this bill before Congress adjourns. 
   The criminal penalties provision in this bill have been the subject of much discussion. The provision is intended to allow for the assessment of criminal penalties in instances where a manufacturer's conduct is so egregious as to render civil penalties meaningless. An article in this week's Business Week, addresses the application of criminal penalties to such conduct. It reports that ``prosecutors have been waking up to the fact that criminal sanctions may be a more effective deterrent and punishment than the worst civil penalties.'' Furthermore, a criminal penalties provision is not a novel inclusion. Multiple agencies are authorized to assess criminal penalties, including, among others, the Department of Labor, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Environmental Protection Agency. 
   Already, NHTSA has linked more than 100 deaths to these tire failures. Last week, NHTSA announced that other models of Bridgestone/Firestone tires may be defective as well. We must act quickly to correct the problems that could lead to further loss of life. As I have repeated throughout the process, I am willing to work with my colleagues to address their concerns so that this vital legislation may be passed prior to the adjournment of this Congress. 
   In summary, more than 100 people have died. It is clear that we need this legislation. It is supported by the administration and by every consumer group in America. It passed through the Commerce Committee unanimously. I intend to come to the floor and ask that we consider this piece of legislation. 
   I expect those who are putting a hold on this bill to come forward and give their reasons for putting a hold on this  very important safety bill. We are talking about the lives of our citizens. This is a serious issue. That is why I intend to come to the floor again and ask that we move the bill. I hope those Senators who object will come forward and state their objections or remove their so-called holds on the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, during a statement I made on the Senate floor today regarding various pork-barrel spending in the final conference report for the FY 2001 energy and water appropriations, I incorrectly referred to a $20 million earmark for the CALFED Bay-Delta restoration project. I was informed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that the conference agreement does not include any funding for this specific California project. I wanted to state for the RECORD that I will correct my statement that will be included on my Senate web page and remove this reference to the CALFED project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Commerce Committee recently approved S. Res. 344, which expresses the Sense of the Senate that a merger of United Airlines and US Airways would hurt consumers' interests. A.G. Newmyer, managing director of U.S. Fiduciary Advisors, similarly addressed the public interest perspective in a guest editorial printed in The Washington Post. I ask unanimous consent that the piece be reprinted in the RECORD in its entirety. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20001002</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, last Thursday, the Senate passed S. 2487, the Maritime Administration Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001. Passage of this measure will help to ensure our nation's maritime industry has the support and guidance it needs to continue to compete in the world market. 
   The bill authorizes appropriations for the Maritime Administration [MarAd] for fiscal year 2001. It covers operations and training and the loan guarantee program authorized by title XI of the Merchant Marine Act 1936. The House Committee on Armed Services, which has jurisdiction of maritime matters in that body, has chosen to include provisions relating to these authorizations in the House-passed version of H.R. 4205, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001. Further, the House conferees on that measure have refused to fully accept S. 2487 as the Senate position as part of the on-going House-Senate conference deliberations in part, due to the Senate's slow action on the measure. I hope by passing S. 2487 we will change that course. 
   In addition to the authorizations for operations and training and the loan guarantee program, S. 2487 amends Title IX of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936 to provide a wavier to eliminate the three year period that bulk and breakbulk vessels newly registered under the U.S. flag must wait in order to carry government-impelled cargo. The bill also provides a one year window of opportunity for vessels newly registered under the U.S.-flag to enter into the cargo preference trade without waiting the traditional three year period. 
   The bill also would amend the National Maritime Heritage Act of 1994 and allow the Secretary to scrap obsolete vessels in both domestic and international market. It would further convey ownership of the National Defense Reserve Fleet Vessel, Glacier to the Glacier Society for use as museum and require the Maritime Administration to including the source and intended use of all funding in reports to Congress. Finally, it amends Public Law 101-115 to recognize National Maritime Enhancement Institutes as if they were University Transportation Centers for purposes of the award of research funds for maritime and intermodal research and requires the Secretary of Transportation to review the funding of maritime research in relation to other modes of transportation. 
   I want to thank the cosponsors of this measure, Senator HOLLINGS and Senator INOUYE for the assistance in moving this measure forward. I hope my colleagues in the House will join us in supporting passage of this legislation so we can move it on to the President for his signature. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1534, the Coastal Zone Management Act of 2000. Originally passed in 1972, the Coastal Zone Management Act, CZMA, was intended to address increased population and development in coastal communities. The programs established under this law were designed to balance responsible development with the preservation of the coastal environment. With over half of the U.S. population living in coastal areas, such balance is more important than ever. 
   This bill reauthorizes the law through fiscal year 2004 and improves the framework of the CZMA--voluntary federal-state matching grant programs. S. 1534 also enhances the ability of coastal zone managers to meet the ever increasing demands of tourism, commercial growth, pollution and environmental protection. In fact, one of the most serious problems facing our coastal environment is the damage caused by polluted runoff, or nonpoint source pollution. Polluted runoff has contributed to human health problems, permanent environmental damage, and beach closures. 
   The legislation before us today will improve the ability of managers to address polluted runoff in a manner specifically tailored to each state's individual needs. The bill clarifies and confirms that matching federal grants may be used to address nonpoint source pollution under the CZMA. In addition, S. 1534 reauthorizes the coastal zone enhancement grant program and provides dedicated funding for the continued implementation of state coastal nonpoint source pollution plans. Previous provisions had limited the program to projects such as wetlands protection and restoration, protection from coastal hazards, and reduction of marine debris along the coast. 
   I urge my colleagues to support S. 1534. It is a strong, pro-environment bill, which will provide a series of improvements to the Coastal Zone Management Act. Most importantly, the bill allows local and state environmental problems to be addressed on a community-by-community basis. This bipartisan bill enjoys the strong support of the Coastal States Organization, which represents the governors of more than 30 states, and a coalition of environmental organizations. 
   I would like to thank Senator SNOWE, the sponsor of the legislation, and Senators KERRY and HOLLINGS for their bipartisan support of and hard work on  this bill. I would also like to express my gratitude and that of the Commerce Committee to the staff who worked on this bill, including Sloan Rappoport, Stephanie Bailenson, Brooke Sikora, Rick Kenin and Margaret Spring. In particular I would like to thank Emily Lindow, a Sea Grant fellow, whose background and experience in coastal management issues helped produce a strong and reasonable CZMA bill. In addition, the Committee appreciates the efforts of Jena Carter, a former Sea Grant fellow, and Catherine Wannamaker, two former Committee staff who helped develop the legislation. 
   Again I urge the Senate to pass S. 1534, the Coastal Zone Management Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today the Senate is considering S. 893, the Vessel Worker Tax Fairness Act. The bill will provide men and women working our nation's inland waterways the same treatment with respect to State and local income taxes as other men and women employed in interstate transportation of commerce receive. This measure was passed unanimously out of the Senate Commerce Committee on June 15 of this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000927</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act, which I enthusiastically support, has fallen victim to political currents in the Senate that do a disservice to the many Latino and other immigrants who rightly deserve the status this legislation would afford them. I strongly support the H-1B visa bill but, like my colleagues, recognize that attaching the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act to it would likely prevent the high-tech worker legislation's passage in the 106th Congress. Indeed, the  House leadership has indicated that it will not bring the H-1B visa bill to the floor with the Fairness provisions attached--a position I strongly disagree with. 
   Senators who support passage of both the H-1B bill and the Fairness Act thus find themselves in the position of being forced to vote against a procedural motion to allow consideration of the Fairness provisions to keep alive our hope of raising visa caps for the high-tech workers our companies so desperately need. 
   I hope the Senate will have the opportunity to vote on passage of the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act before the 106th Congress adjourns. It is the right thing to do, and our leaders on both sides of the aisle should find a way to bring it to a vote. 
   Throughout my political career, I have been deeply honored by the support of Latinos and other immigrants in my home state of Arizona. Our compassion and advocacy of family values for all members of our society, including hard-working, tax-paying Latinos who have resided in this nation for many years, require us to take a closer look at the Latino and Immigrant Fairness Act than has been afforded us during the H-1B visa debate. I look forward to an up-or-down vote on this legislation and will support its passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000926</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, before she leaves the floor, I thank Senator MURRAY. Without her unrelenting efforts and that of her colleague, Senator GORTON, I know we would not have passed the legislation through the Senate, and I know it would not have been as comprehensive nor as carefully done. I thank the Senator from Washington for her outstanding work, including that on behalf of the families who suffered in this terrible tragedy in her home State. 
   I come to the floor today to once again bring to the attention of my colleagues the urgency of passing and sending to the President pipeline safety improvement legislation. While the Senate acted two weeks ago and passed S. 2438, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2000, the House has yet to take action on pipeline safety legislation. Despite the efforts of Mr. FRANKS, chairman of the  House Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, Hazardous Materials and Pipeline Transportation, who has introduced pipeline safety legislation that is almost identical to S. 2438, the full House has not advanced a pipeline safety bill. Time is running out. 
   I thank our colleague from Louisiana, Senator BREAUX, for his active participation. His knowledge and expertise on this issue has been essential. 
   Mr. President, each day that passes without enactment of comprehensive pipeline safety legislation like that approved unanimously by the Senate places public safety at risk. As my colleagues may recall, just prior to Senate passage of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act, a 12-inch propane pipeline exploded in Abilene Texas, after being ruptured by a bulldozer. That accident resulted in the fatality of a police officer. Sadly, that accident brings the total lives that have been lost in recent accidents to 16. 
   In Abilene, the victim was a 42-year-old police detective who just happened to pass by in his car as the propane exploded across State Highway 36. Just last month, 12 individuals lost their lives near Carlsbad, New Mexico, after the rupture of a natural gas transmission line. And we cannot forget about last year's tragic accident in Bellingham, Washington, that claimed the lives of three young men. 
   I repeat what I said two weeks ago during the Senate's consideration of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act: we simply must act now to remedy identified safety problems and improve pipeline safety. To do less is a risk to public safety and will perhaps result in even more needless deaths. 
   It is my hope that I will not have to come to this floor again to implore our colleagues in the House to take action. 
   It is not typical for me to urge the other body to take up a Senate bill without modification, but time is running out. 
   I also point out the strong support of our legislation by the administration. 
   I will quote from Secretary Slater's press release issued after Senate passage of S. 2438:  
   I commend the U.S. Senate for taking swift and decisive action in passing the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2000. This legislation is critical to make much-needed improvements to the pipeline safety program. It provides for stronger enforcement, mandatory testing of all pipelines, community right-to-know information, and additional resources.  
   I further want to point out my disappointment that some in the other body are willing to put safety at risk for what appears to be pure political gain. 
   I am aware of a series of ``Dear Colleagues'' transmitted by some in the House harshly criticizing the Senate bill. This same bill, unanimously approved by the Senate, is strongly supported by Secretary Slater for being a strong bill to advance safety. Therefore, I find the criticism by a handful of House Members quite revealing when one of those harshest critics only last year voted in support of moving a clean 2-year reauthorization of the Pipeline Safety Act out of the House Commerce Committee and the other critic has not taken any action that I have seen to advance pipeline safety during this session. They just don't want a bill because they are betting on being in charge next year. That is the kind of leadership the American people would reject. 
   I do not consider enacting S. 2438 to be the end of our work in this area. Indeed, I commit to our colleagues to continue our efforts to advance pipeline safety during the next Congress. 
   I am willing for the committee to continue to hold hearings on pipeline safety and will work to advance additional proposals that my colleagues submit to promote it. But little more can be done in the time remaining in the session. I don't see how it could be possible to move any other pipeline safety bill prior to adjournment. Therefore, it is urgent for the House to act now. 
   The time is long overdue for Congress and the President to take action to strengthen and improve pipeline safety. We simply cannot risk the loss of any more lives by lack of needed attention on our part. Therefore, I urge my colleagues in the House to join ranks and support passage of pipeline safety reform legislation immediately so we can send the bill on to the President for his signature. Lives are at risk if we don't act now. 
   I thank my colleagues, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000925</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to recognize Kids Voting USA and its efforts to educate our children about civic democracy and the importance of being an informed voter. 
   The program began in 1988 with three Arizona businessmen on a fishing trip to Costa Rica. They learned that voter turnout in that country was routinely about 80 percent. This high turnout was attributed to a tradition of children accompanying their parents to the polls. The men observed first-hand the success Costa Rica had achieved by instilling in children at an early age the importance of active participation and voting. 
   The three Arizona businessmen took this idea back to the United States and founded Kids Voting USA. Today, this nonprofit, nonpartisan organization reaches 5 million students in 39 states, and includes 200,000 teachers, and 20,000 voter precincts. 
   With voter turnout declining each year, Kids Voting USA recognizes the need to educate our youth and instill in them the responsibility to be active, informed citizens and voters. Kids Voting USA enables students to visit official polls on election day, accompanied by a parent or guardian, to cast a ballot that replicates the official ballot. Although not part of the official results, the students' votes are registered at schools and by the media. 
   This year, National Kids Voting Week is September 25-29. It is a week when Kids Voting communities across the country celebrate this vibrant and important program. I would like to recognize Kids Voting USA and all it has done to promote the future of democracy by engaging families, schools and communities in the election process.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000920</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably nomination lists which were printed in the RECORD of the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of H.R. 4444, the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000. This long-overdue legislation is an essential prerequisite to the advancement of U.S. interests in the Asia Pacific region, and I urge its prompt passage. 
   The preceding two weeks have witnessed considerable debate on the floor of the Senate with respect to U.S.-China relations and the wisdom of granting permanent Normal Trade Relations status to the government in Beijing. Clearly, there are extraordinarily serious issues dividing the United States and China. Issues central to our national security and moral values continue to preclude the development of the kind of relationship many of us would have liked to have enjoyed with the world's most populous country. As long as China continues to engage in such abhorrent practices as forced abortions, the harvesting of human organs, repressive measures against people of faith and pro-democracy movements, and the proliferation of ballistic missiles and technology, there will continue to be considerable tension in our relationship. 
   No one should attempt to minimize the significance of these activities. Their termination must be among our highest foreign policy priorities. Opponents of extending permanent normal trade relations status to China, however, are wrong to suggest that such a policy weakens our ability to address important issues that insult our values as a nation and impose tremendous suffering on many Chinese citizens. On the contrary, the economic relationship between the United States and China is a powerful tool for moving China in the direction we desire. 
   There is considerable room for improvement in the human rights situation in China, and efforts at ending Chinese transfers of ballistic missile technology to other countries have been frustratingly ineffective. Denying permanent normal trade status for China, however, is not the answer. China does in fact represent a case for economic engagement as a mechanism for affecting political change. China's history, which cannot be divorced from discussions of contemporary Chinese developments, is quite illuminating in this respect. One of the world's oldest and proudest civilizations, China has nevertheless never known true democracy. Go back 3,000 years and trace its history to the present. It is only in the last quarter-century that the window has truly opened for those aspiring to a freer China. 
   The economic reforms initiated by the late Premier Deng Xiao-ping began a process that has benefited millions of ordinary Chinese and has held out the greatest hope for prosperity and, ultimately, political freedom that country has ever known. The Chinese government, in fact, is struggling with the dichotomy between economic liberalization and political repression and is discovering to its dismay that it has irreconcilable interests. The United States, by maximizing its presence in China through commercial investment and trade, can be of immeasurable assistance to the Chinese population in ensuring that that conflict between economic growth and political repression is resolved in the direction of liberalization. 
   Objective analysis strongly supports this assertion. Since the beginning of economic reform in 1979, China's economy has emerged as one of the fastest growing in the world. The World Bank calculates that as many as 200 million Chinese have been lifted out of poverty as a result of the government's economic reforms. A recent Congressional Research Service study noted that China will have more than 230 million middle-income consumers by 2005. Clearly, economic reform, fueled in large part by trade, is benefitting the average Chinese citizen. It is important that we enable American businesses to develop a presence in these markets now, so that they can both take advantage of future developments and so that American values and practices can better take hold and flourish. 
   We should not be ashamed of the fact that our economy benefits by trade  with China. China's accession to the World Trade Organization, an inevitability given its importance as a market, will allow American companies to sell to Chinese consumers without the current arbitrary regulations. China will be forced to take steps to open its markets to U.S. goods and services that it has been reluctant to take in the past. These steps include major reductions in industrial tariffs from an average of 24 percent to an average of 9.4 percent; reductions in the tariffs on agricultural goods from an average of 31 percent to 14 percent, as well as elimination of non-tariff barriers in agricultural imports; major openings in industries where China has been extremely reluctant to permit foreign investment, including telecommunications and financial services; and unprecedented levels of protection for intellectual property rights. In addition, the United States will be able to use the dispute resolution mechanism of the WTO to force China to meet its obligations and open its markets to American goods. 
   Opponents of engaging China in trade should be aware that membership in the World Trade Organization carries with it responsibilities that are at variance with Communist Party practice. That is why Martin Lee, chairman of the Democratic Party of Hong Kong, noted that China's participation in the WTO would ``bolster those in China who understand that the country must embrace the rule of law.'' Similarly, Wang Shan, a liberal political scientist, stated that ``undoubtedly [the China WTO agreement] will push political reform.'' And the former editor of the democratic journal Fangfa has written that ``if economic monopolies can be broken, controls in other areas can have breakthroughs as well.......In the minds of ordinary people, it will show that breakthroughs that were impossible in the past are indeed possible.'' 
   Yes, we have serious concerns with Chinese behavior in a number of areas. As General Brent Scowcroft stated in a hearing before the Commerce Committee last April, however, the essential point is what is gained by denying China permanent normal trade relations status. We would not accomplish our foreign policy objectives in the Asia Pacific region, or within the realm of missile proliferation, by impeding trade with China. I supported the measure offered by Senator THOMPSON intended to address the issue of Chinese missile proliferation because of that issue's importance to our national security, but also because it was not intended as an anti-trade measure, as is the case with the other amendments offered to this bill. 
   It is past time that the Senate passes permanent normal trade relations status for China. It is in America's interest, and in the interest of hundreds of millions of Chinese citizens. It is the right thing to do. 
   I thank the President for this opportunity to address the Senate, and urge passage of the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the managers of this bill for their hard work in putting forth this legislation which provides federal funding for numerous vital programs in the Treasury Department and the General Government. However, I am sad to say, once again, I find myself in the unpleasant position of speaking before my colleagues about unacceptable levels of parochial projects in another appropriations Conference Report. 
   The amount of pork in this bill is a tremendous burden which is patently unfair to the millions of hard-working American taxpayers, who do not possess the resources to get a ``pet project'' placed in their backyard. 
   The list of projects which received priority billing is quite long and the dollar amounts are staggering. Nevertheless, I will highlight a few of the egregious violations. 
   The conference report contains numerous provisions for millions of dollars to construct new courthouses in specific locations such as Los Angeles, CA, Richmond, VA, and Seattle, WA. Again, why are these particular sites so deserving of funding, that they receive specific earmarks to fund their construction? Unfortunately, this spending frenzy is not limited to courthouses. Somebody in either the other body or the Senate has concluded that the SSA National Computer Center in Woodlawn, MD deserves $4.3 million, and the Richard Bolling Federal Building in Kansas City, MO deserves $26 million are so unique that they should receive specific earmarks. 
   Furthermore, this conference report irresponsibly expands the definition of what constitutes emergency spending to get around the spending caps. For example, this report designates $9 million in funding for repairs to the underground garage in the Cannon House Office Building as emergency spending. I do not think this is what the American taxpayer would envision as a true emergency. 
   This report also spends nearly $7 million more for salaries and expenses for the Treasury Department than was requested by either the House or the Senate. 
   The list of spending excesses goes on. This bill provides a staggering $14.8 million for communications infrastructure, including radios and related equipment, associated with law enforcement responsibilities for the Salt Lake Winter Olympics. This item is but one example of the fiscal abuse surrounding the staging of the Olympic Games in Salt Lake. 
   This past year, Congressman DINGELL and I requested the General Accounting Office to conduct an audit into Federal financial support for U.S. cities hosting the Olympics. Specifically, we asked the GAO to answer two questions: (1) the amount of federal funding and support provided to the 1984 and 1996 Summer Olympics, and planned for the 2002 Winter Olympics, and the types of projects and activities that were funded and supported, and; (2) the Federal policies, legislative authorizations, and agency controls in place for providing the Federal funds and support to the Olympic Games. What the GAO discovered is that, ``at least 24 Federal agencies reported providing or planning to provide a combined total of almost $2 billion, in 1999 dollars, for Olympic-related projects and activities for the 1984 and 1996 Summer Olympic Games and the 2002 Winter Olympic Games.'' 
   I say to my friends, the number is staggering, but what is more shocking, but not too surprising once an egregious practice begins and goes unchecked, is the way in which Federal funds flowing to Olympic host cities has accelerated. The GAO found that the American taxpayers provided about $75 million in funding for the 1984 Los Angeles games, by 1996 the bill to the taxpayers had escalated to $609 million, and for the upcoming 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, that bill to American taxpayers is estimated to be $1.3 billion. 
   That is outrageous, Mr. President, and it is a disgrace. It is a disgraceful practice to put these pork-barrel projects on this appropriations bill. I say to the Senator from Utah who is on the floor now, if another pork-barrel project that is not authorized for the Olympic games is put on any appropriations bill, I will filibuster the bill until I fail to do so. 
   I wrote a letter to the Senator from Utah on September 19, 1997. In it I said:  
   I am writing about the recent efforts to add funds--  
   This is 1997--  
   to appropriations measures for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City.  
   I went on to say:  
   I recognize that proper preparation for the Olympics is vital....... It seems to me, though, the best course of action would be to require the U.S. Olympic Committee, in coordination with the Administration and Congress, to prepare and submit a comprehensive plan detailing, in particular, the funding anticipated to be required from the taxpayers....... 
   Please call me so that we can start work immediately to establish some predictability and rationality in the process of preparing for Olympic events in our country.  
   That was 1997. In a rather surprising breach of senatorial courtesy, the Senator from Utah never responded to that letter, so I wrote him another letter a year later asking for the same and never got a response. 
   The GAO now determines that $1.3 billion--and some of those I will read: $974,000 for the Utah State Olympic Public Safety Command; $5 million for the Utah Communications Agency Network; $3 million to Olympic Regional Development Authority, upgrades at Mt. Van Hoevenberg Sports Complex; $2.5 million, Salt Lake City Olympics bus facilities; $2.5 million, Salt Lake City Olympics regional park-and-ride lots; $500,000, Salt Lake City Olympics transit bus loan, and on and on; $925,000 to allow the Utah State Olympic Public Safety Command to continue to develop and support a public safety program for the 2002 Winter Olympics; $1 million for the 2002 Winter Olympics security training; $2.2 million for the Charleston Water Conservancy District, UT, to meet sewer infrastructure needs associated with the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. 
   What the Olympic games supposedly hosted and funded by Salt Lake City, which began in corruption and bribery, has now turned into is an incredible pork-barrel project for Salt Lake City and its environs. 
   Not surprisingly, the GAO found that there was no effective mechanism in place for tracking Federal funding and support to host cities, one thing I tried to do in the letter to the Senator from Utah in 1997. The GAO stated that ``in some cases it was difficult to determine the amount of federal funding and support because federal agencies generally did not track or report their funding and support for the Olympic Games.'' Congress, in some cases, authorized $690 million of the estimated $2 billion, with some $1.3 billion being approved by Federal agencies. However egregious it might be for Congress to approve $690 million in taxpayers funds--most of which was done through objectionable legislative pork barreling--it is astounding that federal bureaucrats, with absolutely no accountability, have ponied up $1.3 billion as a regular course of business. 
   The Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act, named after my good friend and colleague from Alaska, sets out the process by which the United States Olympic Committee operates, and how the USOC goes about selecting a U.S. bid city. Embodied in this act is a uniquely American tenet establishing that the United States Olympic movement, including the bid, and host city process, is an entirely independent, private sector entity. However, as this report points out, the American taxpayer has now become, by far, the largest single underwriter of the costs of hosting the Olympics. Mind you, this is not about private, voluntary giving to the Olympic movement. Nor is it about corporate sponsorships. This is about a cocktail of fiscal irresponsibility, made of congressional pork barreling, and unaccountable Federal bureaucrats. 
   As I outlined earlier, taxpayer funding of the Olympics has increased dramatically in recent years, as has the purpose of the funding. In the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, $75 million in Federal support--$75 million versus $1.3 billion for the Salt Lake City Olympics--was provided. Most notable about this figure, aside from how low it is relative to Atlanta and Salt Lake, is what the money was used for. Of the $75 million in Los Angeles, $68 million, or 91 percent, was used to help provide safety and security services during the planned staging of the games. Only $7 million was for nonsecurity-related services. Providing safety and security support is a proper role for the Federal Government. No one would dispute that the Federal Government should provide whatever support necessary to ensure that the Games are safe for everyone. However, the American taxpayer should not be burdened with building up the basic infrastructure necessary to a city to be able to pull off hosting the Olympic Games. 
   Clearly, by the time we got to Atlanta, such was not the case. 
   Other classic examples include $331,000 to purchase flowers, shrubs and grass for venues and parks around Atlanta, $3.5 million to do things like installing of solar electrical systems at the Olympic swimming pool. 
   As astounding as the Atlanta numbers are, they absolutely pale in comparison to Salt Lake City. Almost $1.3 billion of Federal funding and support is planned or has already been provided to the city of Salt Lake. And $645 million--51 percent--is for construction of roads and highways; $353 million--28 percent--is for mass transit projects; approximately $107 million for miscellaneous other activities, such as building temporary parking lots and bus rentals; and $161 million on safety and security. 
   As of April 2000, the Federal Government planned to spend some $77 million to provide spectator transportation and venue enhancements for the Salt Lake games. This includes $47 million in congressionally approved taxpayer funding for transportation systems. Among other things, Salt Lake officials plan to ask the Federal Government for $91 million to pay for things such as transporting borrowed buses to and from Salt Lake, additional bus drivers, bus maintenance, and construction and operation of park-and-ride lots. 
   However, as outlined, most of the money taken from taxpayers to pay the bill for the Salt Lake games is going to develop, build, and complete major highway and transit improvement projects, ``especially those critical to the success of the Olympic games.'' This last phrase is vital to understanding the fleece game being played by cities such as Salt Lake City. 
   It works this way. A city decides they want to host an Olympics to generate tourism and put their hometown on the map. In order to successfully manage an Olympics, community leaders know they will have to meet certain infrastructure demands. They develop their plans, and then, of course, the pork barreling starts. 
   The GAO makes several recommendations for congressional consideration, including a potential Federal role in the selection of a bid city, a tracking system for funds appropriated, and more direct oversight. Among other things, the GAO also recommends a larger role for OMB in exercising oversight regarding agency activities. 
   However, I believe there are two fundamental reforms that should take place. The first is budget reform. Appropriations for Olympic activities should occur through the regular budget process, subject to the sunshine of public scrutiny and debate within Congress. Second, the USOC should not consider the bids of cities that do not have in place the basic capacity to host the Olympic games. 
   What has happened here is what happens in Congress. We start out with a little pork barreling; it gets bigger and bigger and bigger. We saw that recently on the Defense appropriations bill--$4 million on the Defense appropriations bill to protect the desert tortoise. 
   I want to repeat, I will filibuster and do everything in my power to delay any more appropriations bills that have this pork-barrel spending for Salt Lake City. There is a process. There is a process of authorization for these projects. They are conducted by the authorizing committees. Some of them may be worthwhile and necessary. Some of them may deserve to be authorized. Instead, they are stuck into an appropriations bill without scrutiny or without anyone looking at them. 
   I do not understand how we Republicans call ourselves conservatives and then treat the taxpayers' dollars in this fashion. This is terribly objectionable. It is up to $1.3 billion. We still have another year, at least, to go. This has to stop. 
   I am glad we got the GAO study. It is a classic example of what happens with pork-barrel spending in this body. It directly contributes to the cynicism and alienation of the American voter. These are my taxpayers' dollars, Mr. President, as well as the citizens' tax dollars of Utah. I have an obligation to my constituents in the State of Arizona who pay their taxes that their tax dollars should not be spent on this pork-barrel spending. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000919</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. GRAHAM addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise along with several of my colleagues to introduce legislation to reform the process used by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate and order recalls for safety related defects in motor vehicles. We introduce this legislation today partly in response to the recall of 14.4 million Firestone tires and the 88 deaths and more than 250 injuries associated with those tires. 
   Over the past two weeks in a series of House and Senate hearings, we have begun to learn the details of how the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Ford Motor Company and Bridgestone/Firestone failed to detect and effectively respond to defective tires that were killing or causing serious harm to consumers. Based upon the still mounting evidence, it is increasingly difficult to believe that neither the companies nor NHTSA knew anything of this problem until after this summer. Annual claims reports from Firestone show an increase in claims associated with the tires subject to the recall beginning in 1996 through 1999. Ford also received numerous complaints about Firestone tires on Explorers in overseas markets. These complaints were significant enough to cause Ford to replace tires in 16 foreign countries. NHTSA was notified on at least two occasions by State Farm Insurance Company that there may be a problem with Firestone tires on Ford Explorers. Taken individually each of these incidents may not be cause for alarm. But taken collectively it is difficult to believe that no one realized this was a problem until a month ago. 
   I cite these facts not as evidence of guilt but as an example of the problems with the current system. NHTSA has neither the resources, the statutory authority nor the internal processes to detect and remedy safety related defects in timely fashion. The current system must be changed. When manufacturers fail to tell the truth or purposely neglect to report safety data, and people lose their lives, severe penalties must result. 
   It is my hope that in the remaining days of this Congress we can move from recrimination to reform. Our attention to ensuring the safety of the driving public must not be fleeting. It  unfortunately has taken the cumulative tragedy of more than 80 lives to bring our collective attention to the long overdue task of reforming the way we investigate and remedy vehicle defects. 
   The proposal we introduce today attempts to make some basic reforms to ensure that the current situation does not repeat itself. It would authorize the Secretary of Transportation to require manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment to report more information such as claims data, warrant data, and lawsuits. The bill establishes criminal penalties for manufacturers that knowingly sell vehicle with a safety-related defect that causes death or serious injury. The measure will also increase the current cap on civil penalties to from $900,000 to $15 million. It provides the Secretary with authority to seek even greater penalties in the conduct is willful and intentional. 
   I know that some of my colleagues believe this legislation does not go far enough and would like to address other motor vehicles safety issues or require the reporting of other data. While I share their concerns about those important issues, I caution that we must not make the perfect the enemy of the good. I want to state openly that this proposal is no panacea to the problem, and I am perfectly open to making sensible and prudent adjustments. Next week, it is my intention to report this bill from the Senate Commerce Committee. I look forward to working with my colleagues to address their concerns as we move through the process. 
   Mr. President, we have an opportunity before we adjourn to enact some basic reforms to empower the Department of Transportation to respond effectively to safety related defects in the future. I hope we will not waste this time and enact these reforms. 
   Mr. WELLSTONE: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000914</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the energy and water appropriations bill is fundamental to our nation's energy and defense related activities, and takes care of vitally important water resources infrastructure needs. My colleagues are aware that I am a strong defender of our national security which is, in part, funded through this bill. Taking care of our national energy needs is also high in priority to our taxpaying constituents who are concerned about ever-increasing gas and energy prices. 
   That is why I am disappointed to report that this year's bill once again fails to fulfill our responsibility to American taxpayers to expend their tax dollars in a wise and prudent fashion that addresses the nation's most critical needs. Instead, included in this year's bill and its accompanying Senate report is $508 million in unrequested and low-priority earmarks. A number of legislative riders are also added which will effectively prevent a fair and deliberative consideration of certain issues that should be determined in a legislative review through the appropriate Congressional committees. 
   I recognize the hard work that the managers of this bill have put into moving this measure through the Senate. I thank them for their tireless efforts and appreciate that their jobs have not been easy. However, I must repeat a criticism I have made many times during consideration of appropriations bills and will continue to make as long as the practice of earmarking continues--this bill inappropriately singles out projects for funding based on criteria other than need and national priority. 
   This year, earmarks account for more than $508 million in funding for local projects contained in the bill and the committee report. Yet, we have no way of knowing whether, at best, all or part of this $508 million should have been spent on different projects with greater national need or, at worst, should not have been spent at all. 
   Various projects are provided with additional funding at levels higher than requested by the administration. The stated reasons include the desire to finish some projects in a reasonable time-frame. Unfortunately, other projects are put on hold or on a slower track. The inconsistency between the administration's request, which is responsible for carrying out these projects, and the views of the appropriators on just how much funding should be dedicated to a project, is troubling. As a result, various other projects that may be equally deserving or higher in priority do not receive an appropriate amount of funding, or none at all. Many of my objections are based on these types of inconsistencies and nebulous spending practices. 
   Our current system of earmarking in order to fund national projects is fundamentally flawed. I hope that we will soon develop a better system, one which allows the projects with the greatest national needs to be funded first. 
   I remind my colleagues that I object to these earmarks on the basis of their  circumvention of our established process, which is to properly consider, authorize and fund projects based on merit and need. 
   Although I was not present to vote on final passage of this bill, I wish to state for the record that I would have voted against this bill because this is not the honorable way to carry out our fiscal responsibilities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today the Senate is considering S. 2438, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2000. This legislation is the product of many months of work by the members of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, as well as other members of the Senate. Sadly, this legislation is in large part in response to two devastating pipeline accidents that have occurred in the States of Washington and New Mexico during the past 15 months. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, it is my hope that passage of comprehensive pipeline safety legislation can give the family members associated with these tragedies at least a small bit of comfort that their losses have spurred Congressional action to strengthen pipeline safety laws and help prevent future tragic accidents. I am aware this bill may not go as far as some would like, and also know it goes further than others can support. However, this legislation is a fair and balanced compromise and is a pro-safety measure that will result in pipeline safety improvements. Its enactment is critical to public safety and must be a top priority during the remainder of this Congress. 
   I extend my sincere appreciation to Senator GORTON for his help in developing the bill before us. His tireless efforts to ensuring that the Senate consider and pass comprehensive pipeline safety legislation is commendable. I also want to thank Senators HOLLINGS, LOTT, HUTCHISON, BREAUX, and BROWNBACK of the Committee for their strong interest in this legislation. Further, I want to recognize the dedication and hard work of Senator MURRAY throughout this process. She has been a tenacious advocate for pipeline safety improvements. I also want to recognize Senator BINGAMAN for his contributions to strengthening the research and development provisions of this legislation, and also Senator DOMENICI for his work. Finally, the input we received from citizens, State pipeline inspectors, the National Transportation Safety Board, the Department of Transportation and its Inspector General, industry and others interested in promoting pipeline safety has been essential to our efforts to craft comprehensive pipeline safety improvement legislation. 
   Significant attention has been directed toward pipeline safety issues by the Senate during this past year. In March, the Senate Commerce Committee held a field hearing, chaired by Senator GORTON, in Bellingham, Washington, during which 18 witnesses provided 
   information and expressed views on the Bellingham accident. In May, the full committee held a hearing on a broad range of pipeline safety issues, including the three pipeline safety bills that have been introduced in the Senate. We reported out a comprehensive bill in June and since then have developed a manager's amendment to provide further clarification of the bill as well as additional provisions to advance pipeline safety. 
   I will highlight some of the major provisions of the legislation before us. The bill would require the implementation of pipeline safety recommendations recently issued by the DOT-IG to the Research and Special Programs Administration, RSPA. The legislation would statutorily require the Secretary of Transportation, the RSPA Administrator and the Director of the Office of Pipeline Safety to respond to NTSB pipeline safety recommendations within 90 days of receipt. The bill would require pipeline operators to submit to the Secretary of Transportation a plan designed to improve the qualifications for pipeline personnel. At a minimum, the qualification plan would have to demonstrate that pipeline employees have the necessary knowledge to safely and properly perform their assigned duties and would require testing and periodic reexamination of the employees' qualifications. 
   The legislation would require DOT to issue regulations mandating pipeline operators to periodically determine the adequacy of their pipelines to safely operate and to adopt and implement integrity management programs to reduce those identified risks. The regulations would, at a minimum, require operators to: base their integrity management plans on risk assessments that they conduct; periodically assess the integrity of their pipelines; and, take steps to prevent and mitigate unintended releases, such as improving leak detection capabilities or installing restrictive flow devices. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000907</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. The committee has worked to ensure all pipelines are covered under the provisions of this legislation, including the more uniquely located pipelines mentioned by my colleagues. The bill requires the agency's technical experts, in conjunction with the industry, to develop specific plans to ensure the integrity of all pipelines. In addition, it requires that operators and inspectors are properly trained to be aware of, and proactively assess, the vulnerabilities of such pipelines in different circumstances, including exposed pipelines. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000906</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, on June 15, 2000, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation reported S. 2440, the Airport Security Improvement Act of 2000. A report on the bill was filed on August 25, 2000. At that time, the committee was unable to provide a cost estimate for the bill from the Congressional Budget Office. On September 1, 2000, the accompanying letter was received from the Congressional Budget Office, and I now make it available to the Senate. I ask unanimous consent that the letter from CBO be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise once again to address the issue of pork-barrel spending in an appropriations bill, in this case the defense appropriations conference report. This bill will pass by an overwhelming margin and with minimal debate. It will occasion the release of innumerable press statements attesting to our individual successes in bringing home the bacon. 
   As we worship at the altar of pork-barrel spending, let's reflect a bit on the merits of our activities with respect to the practice of adding unrequested programs to the defense budget for parochial reasons. When the defense appropriations bill first emerged from committee, some of us found interesting the inclusion of language urging the Secretary of Defense to ``take steps to increase the Department's use of cranberry products. ......'' What I referred to at the time as ``the cranberry incident,'' Mr. President, in retrospect represented the high point of the process by which this conference report was assembled. 
   There are over $7 billion in unrequested member-adds in this bill--over $7 billion. That does not just represent a continuation of business as usual pork-barrel spending; it represents an egregious expansion of a practice that drains vital resources from a military that has witnessed a multitude of readiness problems while deploying at record-high levels. As we struggle with answers to such problems as how to modernize tactical aviation, maintain a fleet of sufficient size and capability to execute its mission, and fund ongoing and unforeseen contingencies, it is less than reassuring to read through the defense spending bill and see $1.8 million earmarked for development of a handheld holographic radar gun, although Trekkies across the nation will no doubt be pleased by this project. 
   It is tiresome to scan these bills every year and see the annual member-adds of millions of dollars for spectral hole burning applications and for free electron lasers. And it is particularly tiresome, right after passing an emergency supplemental appropriations bill that included an executive jet for the commandant of the Coast Guard, to see in this bill a $60 million earmark for a new 737 for CINCPAC--an important command but $60 million for an aircraft that was neither requested nor required constitutes just one of many questionable additions to this bill. 
   We have finally reversed 15 years in declines in defense spending, but for what purpose. To transfer $10 million to the Department of Transportation to realign railroad tracks in Alaska? To transfer $5 million to the National Park Service for repair improvements at Fort Baker in northern California? To transfer another $5 million to the Chicago Public Schools to convert a former National Guard Armory? Was our objective in increasing defense spending to allow us to more freely earmark funding for such endeavors as the $500,000 for Florida Memorial College for funding minority aviation training; $21 million for the Civil Air Patrol; to continue to fund a weather reconnaissance squadron in Mississippi that the Air Force has been trying to get rid off for more years than I can remember? There is over $4 million in this bill for the Angel Gate Academy. There is the now annual allocation to preserve Civil War-era vessels at the bottom of Lake Champlain, this year in the amount of $15 million. There is $2 million for the Bosque Redondo Memorial in New Mexico and the usual $3 million for hyperspectral research. 
   If a project is so worthy of Defense Department support, why doesn't it ever show up in a budget request? Why do we need to add money every single year for the National Automotive Center and its prize off-shoot, the Smart Truck Initiative. With another $3.5 million in the fiscal year 2001 defense bill for Smart Truck, I'm beginning to wonder if the intellect of this truck will be such that it will not only be capable of heating up a burrito, but will also perform advanced calculus while quoting Kierkegaard. When I look through this bill, I begin to lose sight of its fundamental purpose. The distinction between the defense bill and the Health and Human Services bill gets lost when you see $8.5 million for the Gallo Center for Alcoholism Research, $4 million for the Gallo Cancer Center--see a pattern emerging?--another $1.5 million for nutrition research, $1.5 million for chronic fatigue syndrome research, and, of course, $1 million for the Cancer Center of Excellence--this latter add a reminder that if you call something a ``center of excellence'' you 
   are assured of being a beneficiary of Congress's largess. 
   Mr. President, I do not take issue with research into important health problems affecting millions of Americans. But the abuse of the defense budget grows every year. It has long been used as a cash-cow for pet projects, but did that have to extend to the allocation of millions of dollars for programs of such exceedingly low priority that they don't even show up on already politicized unfunded priority lists? 
   Astronomical Active Optics, Mr. President, were deemed worthy of over $3 million in defense funds, as was coal based advanced thermally stable jet fuel. Fifteen million dollars for the Maui Space Surveillance System, another annual add, $5 million for the Hawaii Federal Health Care Network, $8 million for the Pacific Island Health Care Referral Program, $1 million for the Alaska Federal Health Care Network, $1.5 million for AlaskAlert, $7 million for MILES 2000 equipment at Fort Wainwright, Alaska, $7.5 million for a C-130 simulator for the Alaska National Guard, the annual $10 million  for utilidor repairs at Eielson Air Force Base and Fort Wainwright, Alaska, and $21 million for an unmanned threat emitter system for Eielson, and $7 million to sustain operations at Adak Naval Air Station, an installation of apparently marginal utility or the Navy would include it in its funding request. Re-use of Fort Greely, Alaska, receives $7 million for airfield improvement. One of my favorites, $300,000 for the Circum-Pacific Council for the Crowding the Rim Summit Initiative, represents a new addition to this list. 
   The inclusion of so-called ``Buy American'' provisions continue to waste billions of dollars every year. These out-dated protectionist policies serve neither U.S. nor allied interests. It goes against the basic logical policy of getting the best product for the best price for the men and women who wear our nation's uniform. Additionally, these provisions, for example, the requirement to purchase only propellers manufactured in the United States, were added in conference--a practice with which I take strong exception and will discuss further in a minute. 
   I have repeatedly addressed the growing perversion of the process by which budget requests and service Unfunded Priority Lists are put together. It has been clear for several years now that the services are under considerable political pressure from Capitol Hill to include in their budget requests or, at a minimum, on the Unfunded Priority Lists, unnecessary and unwanted items. Funding for the ubiquitous LHD amphibious assault ship for Mississippi is the classic example of this phenomenon. Indeed, the Defense Department and the Navy's rejection in the past of proposals to incrementally fund ships has given way to unrelenting pressure from members of Congress to so fund the LHD. Similarly, C-130s and passenger jets are routinely added to the UFR lists solely as a result of political pressure. In effect, then, my efforts at highlighting pork-barrel spending have resulted to some degree in the problem being pushed underground. That's called progress in Congress. It's called deception everywhere else. 
   The fiscal year 2001 defense appropriations conference report takes the problem a major step further. The integrity of the budget process is under a new and devastating assault by the Appropriations Committee. There is in this conference report language specifying the very weapon systems the committee expects to see included in future budget submissions. It is a long list prefaced with the warning that ``the conferees expect the component commanders to give priority consideration to the following items ......,'' which it then goes on to detail. 
   Finally, I would like to address the equally fascinating tendency of the Appropriations Committees to arrive at final budget numbers that exceed what was in either House or Senate bill. It is my understanding that conference is a process whereby differences between respective bills are the subject of negotiations resulting in agreements that either match one of the two numbers in question or find a compromise in between. I find it interesting, therefore, that this conference report has 166 instances of final numbers exceeding those that were in either bill. In many instances, funding was added in conference for which none was included in either chamber's bill. For example, $17 million was added in conference for a capital purchase plan for Pearl Harbor, and $10 million materialized for modifications to M113 armored personnel carriers. There is $10 million in the conference report which was in neither bill to continue the artificial issue of test firing Starstreak missiles, and $1 million for natural gas microturbines. In this bill vital for our national defense is $1.7 million for the South Florida Ocean Management Center and $1 million for Community Hospital Telehealth Competition. And, of course, the $60 million for CINCPAC's new 737 was added in conference. For none of these programs, totaling over $200 million, was funding included in either the House or the Senate bill. 
   The total dollar amount for the entire category of conference items for which no funding was included in either chamber's bill or for which the final number exceeds what was in either bill is over $2 billion. Two billion dollars, Mr. President, in unrequested, unnecessary items that emerged miraculously in conference. I've heard of the fog of war resulting in horrendous casualties, but I'm perplexed by this fog of negotiating that results in horrendous budgets. 
   Sadly, Mr. President, I could go on for another hour. I think, however, that I have made my point. The $7 million in the defense bill for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory in New Mexico, combined with the aforementioned adds for Astronomical Active Optics and the Maui Space Surveillance System leads me to ponder the universe of pork-barrel spending at a higher philosophical plane than in the past. We are adding millions of dollars every year to the defense bill so that we may better scan the heavens, perhaps as part of an ultimately futile effort to better understand our place in the cosmos. Only by applying such logic to the process of reviewing spending bills upon which we vote, however, can I hope to understand the phenomenon by which we regularly send billions of dollars down a black hole. At the end of the day, I guess Einstein's theory of relativity, as well as Newtonian laws of gravity, are at the center of the budget process. The practice of pork-barrel spending has been out of control for years; only now can we take it to a cosmic level never before contemplated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I do not intend to take all of my time. I would like to have Senator GRAMM use some of his time. 
   I would like to say I am not proud to be here on the floor. This bill probably ranks up with the two or three of the most outrageous pork-barrel spending bills that I have observed in my years here since 1987. I should have demanded that the bill be read and I should be doing everything I can to block it. I intend to explain why. 
   This bill, I say in all respect--in all respect to the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, and my good friend from Hawaii--is a disgrace. This bill has had $2 billion added on in conference--added on in conference. Not a single Member of this body who was not part of the conference had anything to say about $2 billion--B, billion--that was added in conference. As I say, I have not seen anything quite this bad--or perhaps I have, but it is very rare. This is a remarkable document. It has millions and millions and millions of dollars devoted to projects that have nothing to do with national defense. 
   Mr. President, there is $4 million--excuse me--$8.5 million for the Gallo Center for Alcoholism Research. What is the Gallo Center for Alcoholism Research? That was added in the conference. 
   It has $4 million for the Gallo Cancer Center, $1.5 million for chronic fatigue syndrome research, $1 million for the Cancer Center of Excellence. What does the Cancer Center of Excellence have to do with national defense? 
   Mr. President, there are $4 million in this bill for the Angel Gate Academy. What is the Angel Gate Academy? There is now an 
   allocation to preserve Civil War-era vessels at the bottom of Lake Champlain, this year in the amount of $15 million; $2 million for the Bosque Redondo Memorial. 
   I am one of the few Members who know what the Bosque Redondo Memorial is. That is when we marched the Navajo Nation to Canyon de Chelle and killed thousands of the Navajo Nation. What does that have to do with defense? 
   Mr. President, $3 million for hyperspectral research; astronomical active optics were deemed worthy of over $3 million in defense funds, as was coal-based advanced thermally stable jet fuel. Coal-based jet fuel? What do we have, a guy in the back of the plane shoveling coal? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, $7 million--of course Alaska is here, of course Hawaii is here. There is $5 million for the Hawaii Federal Health Care Network. I say to the Senator, my dearest friend, what in the world is the Pacific Island Health Care Referral Program? The Hawaiian Islands Federal Health Care Network? Alaska Federal Health Care Network? $1.5 million for AlaskAlert, $7 million for equipment at Fort Wainwright, $7.5 million for the C-130 simulator. 
   There is a gift for CINCPAC, Commander in Chief of the U.S. Forces in the Pacific. Perhaps he needs a new $60 million airplane. Perhaps he needs it, I don't know. We will never know because it was not in the House bill, it was not in the Senate bill, and it was put in in conference, $60 million. 
   This is a remarkable document. I have submitted for the RECORD a four-page document. Many pages show: Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; Conference--a Capital Purchase Plan at Pearl Harbor: Budget, zero; House,  zero; Senate, zero; Conference, $5 million. What is that all about? What is that all about? Was it ever discussed on the floor of the Senate? Was it ever discussed at a hearing? Was it ever, dare I say, discussed in the Senate Armed Services Committee, which is the authorizing committee for these projects? Was it ever? No. 
   This is quite remarkable. Air Force Center of Acquisition Reengineering: Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; Conference, $2 million. 
   There is a Handheld Holographic Radar Gun--I repeat that--a Handheld Holographic Radar Gun: Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; Conference, $1 million. 
   Is there anyone in this body besides the appropriators, besides the appropriators in this body, who is going to vote $1 million of the taxpayers' money who knows what in the world a Handheld Holographic Radar gun is? Perhaps the Presiding Officer knows. He is a very smart guy. Perhaps Senator GRAMM--he is an economist; he is a former college professor--perhaps he knows. 
   Here is one. Information Networking Systems: Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; Conference, $12.5 million. What does that mean? 
   Intelligent Power Control Vehicle Systems: House, zero; Senate, zero; Budget, zero; Conference, $4.1 million. What does that mean? 
   One of my annual favorites--here is one that really is puzzling. Air Vehicle Dem/Val Bridge Contracts: Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; Conference, $88,984,000. 
   My friends, you are going to vote to appropriate $88,984,000 of taxpayers' dollars for an Air Vehicle Dem/Val Bridge Contract. 
   Here is another one, Advanced Food Service Technology: Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; $2.5 million for Advanced Food Service Technology. Mr. President, Advanced Food Service Technology? Again, what is that all about? Was it ever requested by the administration? 
   The answer is no. 
   Compass Call--I will not go into the Compass Call. 
   NTW missile defense radar competition. That may be very important. Budget, zero; House, zero; Senate, zero; conference, $80 million. I say to my friends, $80 million will be spent on NTW missile defense radar competition which, again, never had a hearing in the Senate Armed Services Committee, was never discussed on the floor of the Senate, never discussed on the floor of the House, and 80 million of taxpayers' dollars. 
   Here is another one. Information Technology Center. Budget, zero. For the uninitiated, ``budget'' means requested by the administration. The administration requested no money for it. The House put in no money for it in their Defense appropriations bill. The Senate put zero dollars in their bill. Yet it emerged from conference: Information Technology Center, $20 million; $20 million is now being spent on the Information Technology Center which none of us knows what in the world it is, except for a chosen few. 
   What is happening here is that Members of the Senate and House who are not members of the Appropriations Committee are being deprived of their rights to knowledge and voting and discussing, debating, and making judgment on programs. And we are talking about big money here. We are talking about $2 billion--B, billion--that have been added in conference which neither House ever debated, discussed, nor amended. 
   I think it is wrong, and I will return to something I said several times, both publicly and privately. It is time we made some tough decisions around here: Abolish the authorizing committees or abolish the appropriations committees. I am told by the distinguished chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee that $600 million was transferred out of Navy accounts into Army accounts--$600 million--by the Appropriations Committee. 
   We all know how the system is supposed to work. The authorizing committees authorize, and then the Appropriations Committee allows certain amounts of money which, in their best judgment, is needed. Now we are shifting hundreds of millions of dollars and adding $2 billion. We are inaugurating programs that have no relation--no relation whatsoever--to national defense. 
   What in the world does a Gallo Research Center have to do with anything that is regarded defense? 
   Mr. President, $7 million for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory in New Mexico--what does the Magdalena Ridge Observatory in New Mexico have to do with national defense?--combined with the aforementioned adds for Astronomical Active Optics and the Maui Space Surveillance System. 
   Some months ago, I completed a failed Presidential campaign. I learned a lot of things in that campaign, but I also found that many Americans who did not vote in the 1998 election--in fact, we had the lowest voter turnout in history of the 18-to-26-year-old voter in the 1998 election, and all of the predictions now are that we will have an even lower voter turnout in the year 2000 Presidential campaign. 
   They said, particularly young people: You don't represent me anymore; you don't respond to my hopes, dreams, and aspirations. I think these young people have another complaint: You don't have anything to do with the expenditure of my tax dollars. 
   It is controlled by a few and, in many cases, those few are controlled by special interests. Recently, there was a fundraiser conducted by the Democratic Party where one could pay $500,000 and buy a ticket. When I first came to the House in 1983, if someone had told me that, I would have said: You're crazy. 
   Here we are in a process where I am not able to represent the people of my State, much less the other young Americans who thought that I was a decent public servant. How can I represent the taxpayers of my State when $2 billion is put in, in a conference about which I have no input? How can we call ourselves their representatives when they add money into an appropriations bill in a conference? Most Americans think $2 billion is a lot of money. 
   I will tell my colleagues this right now: We are not taking care of the men and women in the military. We have pilots leaving at the highest rate. We cannot retain them. We have young men and women leaving in the highest numbers we have ever experienced since the 1970s. We are not meeting our recruiting goals. Yet we can spend $7 million for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory; we can spend money for the LHD amphibious assault ship in Mississippi; C-130s and passenger jets are routinely added. The list goes on and on. 
   I will have more to say because I have asked for the time, but it is not fair to the people of this country. I tell my appropriator friends now: You risk losing the confidence of the American people when you carry out these kinds of procedures. You risk and deserve the condemnation and criticism of average citizens when you use their taxpayer dollars in such fashion in a bill that says ``Defense appropriations bill'' and we give money to some Gallo outfit. It may be a good and worthy cause, but so much of this has nothing to do with national defense, and the procedure that is being used is not acceptable. 
   I tell the appropriators now, and I want to make them very well aware, if next year this kind of behavior and these kinds of parliamentary procedures are pursued, I will do whatever one Senator can do to block passage of this bill. I say that not only because of my offense at this kind of procedure that has taken place, but I say that on behalf of the men and women who serve in the military today who are not having their basic needs met. 
   We still have thousands of young men and women on food stamps. We still have marines recapping tires so they can buy additional ammunition with which to practice. We still have men and women in the military living in barracks that were built in World War II, and we will spend $2 billion that has nothing to do with their health, welfare, and benefit. 
   I have that obligation, and that obligation clearly supersedes that of my obligation to my dear friends in the Senate. It has to stop. I was discussing this with my friend--and he is my dear friend--the Senator from Alaska. I said: This is terrible, all the things that have been put in. 
   He said: You should have seen what they tried to put in. 
   In all due respect to the distinguished chairman of the Appropriations Committee, it is not good enough.  
   I see the Senator from Texas has more to say. I reserve the remainder of my time and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator GRAMM for his efforts and his discussion of a bill that, obviously, is going to be passed by overwhelming numbers. Again, I point out, this is a Defense appropriations bill--appropriations. It is supposed to be for the money, not for making policy or authorizing. 
   One of the more egregious practices that has crept in lately, that doesn't have a lot to do with money but has a great deal to do with national policy and in the end costs taxpayers enormous amounts of money, is the Buy American provisions. We started out with a couple. Now we have more and more and more. I will mention a couple of them. 
   You have to buy only American products related to welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain. You can only buy American relating to carbon alloy or armor steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility or property under the control of the Department of Defense, specifications to be determined by the American Iron and Steel Institute. There are Buy American restrictions related to the procurement of vessel propellers and ball and roller bearings. 
   I am told that a request for proposal, so-called RFP, to people to bid on vessel propellers that would have been opened to, certainly, our NATO allies was recently published and, strangely enough, this was put in the bill. There is a requirement for the use of U.S. anthracite as the baseload energy for municipal district heat for U.S. military installations in Germany. I have remarked on this before because it has been there a long time. It is the classic example of taking coal to Newcastle. We have to take American coal, put it on a ship, and transport it to Germany to be used in Germany. I have never gotten an estimate as to how many millions that costs Americans. 
   It exempts the construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, food, clothing or textile materials from Secretary of Defense waiver authority relating to the Buy American requirements involving countries with which the United States has reciprocal agreements. In other words, the United States has a reciprocal agreement, particularly with some of our NATO allies, and the Secretary of Defense cannot give any waiver for the purchase of clothing or textile materials. This is protectionism at its most egregious. 
   It prohibits the development, lease, or procurement of ADC(X) class ships unless the main propulsion diesel engines and propulsors are manufactured in the United States by a domestically operated entity. 
   It transfers $5 million to the National Park Service for repair improvements at Fort Baker in northern California; $500,000 for Florida Memorial College for the purposes of funding minority aviation training. It is a worthy program. I would support it, if it were not in a Defense appropriations bill. It transfers $34 million to the Department of Justice for the National Drug Intelligence Center. We have an appropriations bill upon which that would have been entirely appropriate. Then they go on to restrict the center's ability to establish its own personnel levels. 
   There are restrictions on the ability of the Department of Defense to contract out any activity currently performed by more than 10 Department of Defense civilian employees. 
   This is an appropriations bill, Mr. President. Now the Department of Defense cannot contract out any activity, no matter how much money it would save the taxpayers, under any circumstances, if there are no more than 10 DOD civilian employees. It doesn't matter if there are a thousand military people. More than 10 Department of Defense civilian employees. That is offensive, to have that kind of language in a DOD appropriations bill. 
   It prohibits reduction to disestablishment of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron, Air Force Reserve, Mississippi. We all know we have the capability to monitor weather, thanks to modern technology. 
   It mandates continued availability of funds for the National Science Center for Communications and Electronics in Georgia. 
   It requires the Army to use the former George Air Force Base, California, as the airhead for the National Training Center. 
   We could not let the Army or Department of Defense make that decision. We require the U.S. Army, no matter what it may cost, to use George Air Force Base as the airhead for the National Training Center. 
   It authorizes the Secretary of Defense to waive reimbursement requirements relating to the costs to the Department of Defense associated with the conduct of conferences, seminars, and other educational activities of the Asia-Pacific Center. 
   It is well to note that the Asia-Pacific Center is located in Hawaii. Why don't we waive reimbursement requirements for any center in America or the world? Why just for the Asia-Pacific Center? 
   It transfers $10 million to the Department of Transportation to realign railroad tracks at Elmendorf Air Force Base and Fort Richardson, Alaska. 
   I wonder if there are railroad tracks that need to be realigned at other defense facilities in America. I would imagine so. 
   It mandates that funds used for the procurement of malt beverages and wine for resale on a military installation be used to procure such beverages from within that State. 
   Suppose they could get those beverages at a lower cost from some other State? 
   It earmarks $5 million for the High Desert Partnership in Academic Excellence Foundation, Inc., for the purpose of developing, implementing, and evaluating a standards- and performance-based academic model at schools administered by the Department of Defense Education Activity. 
   What makes the High Desert Partnership the place to get the $5 million?  Was there ever a hearing on it? Did the Personnel Subcommittee or Armed Services Committee ever look at it? No. 
   It earmarks $115 million to remain available for transfer to other Federal agencies. 
   That is $115 million; just transfer it to other Federal agencies. Why? 
   It earmarks $1.9 million for San Bernadino County Airports Department for installation of a perimeter security fence at Barstow-Daggett Airport, California. 
   It earmarks $20 million for the National Center for the Preservation of Democracy. 
   It earmarks $7 million for the North Slope Borough. 
   It earmarks $5 million to the Chicago Public Schools for conversion and expansion of the former Eighth Regiment National 
   Guard Armory. 
   I argue, Mr. President, that there are guard armories all over America that could be converted. 
   It earmarks $1 million for the Middle East Regional Security Issues Program. 
   It earmarks $2 million, subject to authorization, for the Bosque Redondo Memorial in New Mexico. 
   It earmarks $300,000 for the Circum-Pacific Council for the Crowding the Rim Summit Initiative. 
   It earmarks $10 million for the City of San Bernadino, contingent on resolution of the case of City of San Bernadino v. United States. 
   Mr. President, it is obvious that this procedure in the Congress of the United States of authorizing and appropriating has lurched completely and entirely out of control. When you are earmarking $2 billion out of an appropriations bill which has neither been examined nor voted on by either body, we have a case that has got to be remedied, and we have obviously wasted billions of dollars of the taxpayers' money. 
   The American people deserve better. I say again to the distinguished members of the Appropriations Committee, with whom I have an excellent and warm personal relationship, this cannot stand. Next year, if this kind of practice continues, then I will have to do everything in my power to stop it, as I said before, not only because of my obligation to the taxpayers, which is significant, but my obligation to the men and women in the military who are being shortchanged by these procedures and, indeed, neglected in many respects. 
   I yield the floor and the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2000. Charged with maintaining our national defense and the safety of our citizens, the Coast Guard is a multi-mission agency. The Coast Guard is a branch of the U.S. Armed Forces, but it is also responsible for search and rescue services and maritime law enforcement throughout our nation's waters. Daily operations include drug interdiction, environmental protection, marine inspection, licensing, port safety and security, aids to navigation, waterways management, and boating safety. 
   Recently the Coast Guard has been forced to reduce its services and cut its operations as a result of funding shortfalls. Earlier this year, the Coast Guard reduced its non-emergency operations first by 10 percent and subsequently by 25 percent. Mr. President, the Coast Guard deserves better, and the bill before the Senate authorizes funding at levels which would restore the Coast Guard to normal operations levels and prevent reductions in the future. Additionally, the bill provides necessary funding for cutter and aircraft maintenance including the elimination of the existing spare parts shortage. Simply put, S.1089 allows the Coast Guard to continue their critical work on behalf of our country. 
   This bill provides the funding necessary to maintain the level of service and the quality of performance that the United States has come to expect from the Coast Guard. I commend the men and women of the Coast Guard for their honorable and courageous service to this country. The bill authorizes $3.95 billion in FY 2000, $4.75 billion in 2001, and such funds as may be necessary in FY 2002, depending on the administration's request. 
   One critical goal of this bill is to provide parity with the Department of Defense on certain personnel matters. Mr. President, we should ensure that the men and women serving in the Coast Guard are not adversely effected because the Coast Guard does not fall under the DOD umbrella. This bill provides parity with DOD for military pay and housing allowance increases, Coast Guard membership on the USO Board of Governors, and compensation for isolated duty. 
   In today's strong economy, maintaining high level service members is a serious challenge. Additional funding in this bill provides for recruiting and retention initiatives, to ensure that the Coast Guard retains the most qualified young Americans. In addition, it addresses the current shortage of qualified pilots and authorizes the Coast  Guard to send more students to flight school. 
   Mr. President, the Coast Guard is the lead federal agency in maritime drug interdiction. Therefore, they are often our nation's first line of defense in the war on drugs. This bill authorizes the Coast Guard to acquire and operate up to seven ex-Navy patrol boats, thereby expanding the Coast Guard's critical presence in the Caribbean, a major drug trafficking area. With the vast majority of the drugs smuggled into the United States on the water, the Coast Guard must remain well equipped to prevent drugs from reaching our schools and streets. 
   Environmental protection, including oil-spill cleanup, is an invaluable service provided by the Coast Guard. Under current law, the Coast Guard has access to a permanent annual appropriation of $50 million, distributed by the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to carry out emergency oil spill response needs. Over the past few years, the fund has spent an average of $42 to $50 million per year, without the occurrence of a major oil spill. Clearly these funds would not be adequate to respond to a large spill. For instance, a spill the size of the Exxon Valdez could easily deplete the annual appropriated funds in two to three weeks. This bill authorizes the Coast Guard to borrow up to an additional $100 million, per incident, from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, for emergency spill responses. In such cases, it also requires the Coast Guard to notify Congress of amounts borrowed within thirty days and repay such amounts once payment is collected from the responsible party. 
   This bill represents a thorough set of improvements which will make the Coast Guard more effective, improve the quality of life of its personnel, and facilitate their daily operations. I would like to express my gratitude and that of the full Commerce Committee to staff who worked on this bill, including Sloan Rappoport, Stephanie Bailenson, Rob Freeman, Emily Lindow, Brooke Sikora, Margaret Spring, Catherine Wannamaker, Jean Toal, Carl Bentzel, and Rick Kenin, a Coast Guard fellow whose knowledge of the Coast Guard was invaluable to the Committee because he was able to give a first hand account of how this bill will improve the lives of the men and women who so dutifully serve our nation. I would also like to thank Senators SNOWE, HOLLINGS, and KERRY for their bipartisan support of and hard work on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill with my friend and colleague Senator KERREY to resolve the controversy that has erupted over the Federal Communications Commission's creation of a new, noncommercial low-power FM radio service. 
   As you undoubtedly know, the FCC's low-power FM rules will allow the creation of thousands of new noncommercial FM radio stations with coverage of about a mile or so. Although these new stations will give churches and community groups new outlets for expression of their views, commercial FM broadcasters as well as National Public Radio oppose the new service. They argue that the FCC ignored studies showing that the new low-power stations would cause harmful interference to the reception of existing full-power FM stations. 
   Mr. President, legislation before the House of Representatives would call a halt to the institution of low-power FM service by requiring further independent study of its potential for causing harmful interference to full-power stations, and Senator GREGG has introduced the same legislation in the Senate. While this would undoubtedly please existing FM radio broadcasters, it understandably angers the many parties who are anxious to apply for the new low-power licenses. Most importantly, it would delay the availability of whatever new programming these new low-power licensees might provide, even where the station would have caused no actual interference at all had it been allowed to operate. 
   With all due respect to Senator GREGG and to the supporters of the House bill, Senator KERREY and I think we can reach a fairer result, and the bill we are introducing, the Low Power Radio Act of 2000, is intended to do just that. 
   Unlike Senator GREGG's bill, the Low Power Radio Act would allow the FCC to license low-power FM radio stations. The only low-power FM stations that would be affected would be those whose transmissions are actually causing harmful interference to a full-power radio station. The Commission would determine which stations are causing such interference and what the low-power station must do to alleviate it,  as the expert agency with the experience and engineering resources required to make such determinations. 
   The Act gives full-power broadcasters the right to file a complaint with the Commission against any low-power FM licensee for causing harmful interference, and stipulates that the costs of the proceeding shall be borne by the losing party. Finally, to make sure that the FCC does not relegate the interests of full-power radio broadcasters to secondary importance in its eagerness to launch the new low-power FM service, the bill requires the FCC to complete all rulemakings necessary to implement full-power stations' transition to digital broadcasting no later than June 1, 2001. 
   Mr. President, this legislation strikes a fair balance by allowing non-interfering low-power FM stations to operate without further delay, while affecting only those low-power stations that the FCC finds to be causing harmful interference in their actual, everyday operations. This is totally consistent with the fact that low-power FM is a secondary service which, by law, must cure any interference caused to any primary, full-power service. This legislation will provide an efficient and effective means to detect and resolve harmful interference. By providing a procedural remedy with costs assigned to the losing party, the bill will discourage the creation of low-power stations most likely to cause harmful interference even as it discourages full-power broadcasters from making unwarranted interference claims. And for these reasons it will provide a more definitive resolution of opposing interference claims than any number of further studies ever could. 
   Mr. President, in the interests of would-be new broadcasters, existing broadcasters, but, most of all, the listening public, I urge the enactment of the Low Power Radio Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, 2000. The purpose of this meeting will be to review the Federal Sugar Program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, 2000. The purpose of this hearing will be to review proposals to establish an International School Lunch Program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be authorized to meet on Thursday, July 27, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. on antitrust issues in the airline industry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27 at 9:30 a.m. to conduct an oversight hearing. The committee will receive testimony from representatives of the General Accounting Office on the investigation of the Cerro Grande Fire in the State of New Mexico, and from Federal agencies on the Cerro Grande Fire and their fire policies in general. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Finance be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate  on Thursday, July 27, 2000, for an Open Executive Session to consider favorably reporting the following nominations: Robert S. LaRussa to be Under Secretary for International Trade, Department of Commerce; Jonathan Talisman, Assistant Secretary (Tax Policy), Department of the Treasury; Ruth M. Thomas to be Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department of the Treasury; and, Lisa G. Ross to be Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the Judiciary be authorized to meet to conduct a markup on Thursday, July 27, 2000, at 10 a.m. The markup will take place in Dirksen Room 226. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Veterans' Affairs be authorized to hold a markup on pending legislation, and on the nominations of Thomas L. Garthwaite, M.D., to be Under Secretary for Health, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Robert M. Walker to be Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs. 
   The hearing will be held on Thursday, July 27, 2000, at 10 a.m., in room 418 of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Select Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, 2000 at 3:30 p.m. to hold a closed confirmation hearing on the nomination of John E. McLaughlin to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Special Committee on Aging be authorized to meet, July 27, 2000 from 9:39 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Dirksen 628 for the purpose of conducting a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Business Rights and Competition be authorized to meet to conduct a markup on Thursday, July 27, 2000, at 9:30 a.m. The markup will take place in Dirksen Room 226. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Criminal Justice Oversight be authorized to meet to conduct a hearing on Thursday, July 27, 2000, at 2 p.m., in Dirksen 226. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-20000727</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on National Parks, Historic Preservation and Recreation of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, July 27, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing. The subcommittee will receive testimony on S. 1734, a bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to contribute funds for the establishment of an interpretive center on the life and contributions of President Abraham Lincoln; H.R. 3084, a bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to contribute funds for the establishment of an interpretive center on the life and contributions of President Abraham Lincoln; S. 2345, a bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource study concerning the preservation and public use of sites associated with Harriet Tubman located in Auburn, New York, and for other purposes; S. 2638, a bill to adjust the boundaries of the Gulf Islands National Seashore to include Cat Island, Mississippi; H.R. 2541, a bill to adjust the boundaries of the Gulf Islands Natonal Seashore to include Cat Island, Mississippi; and S. 2848, a bill to provide for the exchange to benefit the Pecos National Historic Park in New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my colleagues from Massachusetts, Michigan, and California to introduce the Consumer Internet Privacy Enhancement Act. The purpose of this legislation is simple. We want to ensure that commercial websites inform consumers about how their personal information is treated, and give consumers meaningful choices about the use of that information. While the purpose of this legislation is simple, the task my colleagues and I are seeking to accomplish is complex and difficult. 
   The Internet is a tremendous medium spurring the world's economy and allowing people to communicate in ways that were unimaginable a few short years ago. The Internet revolution is transforming our lives and our economy at an incredible pace. Like any other technological revolution it promises great opportunities and, it presents new concerns and fears. 
   Chief among those concerns is the ability of the Internet to further erode individual privacy. Since the beginning of commerce, business has sought to learn more about consumers. The ability of the internet to aid business in the collection, storage, transfer, and analysis of information about a consumer's habits is unprecedented. While this technology can allow business to better target goods and services, it also has increased consumer fears about the collection and use of personally identifiable information. 
   Since 1998, the Federal Trade Commission has examined this issue in a series of reports to Congress. The FTC and privacy organizations formed by industry identified ``four fair information practices'' which should be utilized by websites that collect personally identifiable information. In simple terms, these practices are notice of what information is collected and how it is used; choice as to how that information is used; access by the user to information collected about them; and appropriate measures to ensure the security of the information. 
   Over the last three years industry has worked diligently to develop and implement privacy policies utilizing the four fair information practices. While industry has made progress in providing consumers with some form of notice of their information practices, there is much work to be done to improve the depth and clarity of privacy policies. 
   The legislation we introduce today should not be viewed as a failure on the part of industry to address privacy. Instead industry's efforts over the past few years have driven the development of standards which serve as the model for this legislation. Our objective is to provide for enforceable standards to ensure that all websites 
   provide consumers with clear and conspicuous notice and meaningful choices about how their information is used. 
   Currently, some websites have privacy policies that are confusing and make it difficult for consumers to restrict the use of information. During a recent hearing before the Senate Commerce Committee, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission--a former dean of Georgetown Law School--expressed his own difficulties in understanding some privacy policies. 
   Privacy is harmed not enhanced when consumers are lost in a fog of legalese. Some current privacy policies confuse and contradict rather than provide clear and conspicuous notice of a consumer's rights. 
   The bill my colleagues and I introduce today attempts to end some of this confusion by providing for enforceable standards that will both protect consumers and allow for the continued growth of e-commerce. Specifically, the bill would require websites to provide clear and conspicuous notice of their information practices. It also requires websites to provide consumers with an easy method to limit the use and disclosure of information. 
   The provisions of the bill are enforceable by the FTC. States Attorneys General could also bring suits in federal court under the Act using a mechanism similar to the Telemarketing Sales Rule. We also propose a civil penalty of $22,000 per violation with a maximum fine of $500,000. Currently, the FTC can only seek civil penalties if an individual or business is under an order for past behavior. 
   The legislation also preempts state law to ensure that the law governing the collection of personally identifiable information is uniform. Finally, the bill would direct the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of privacy to examine the collection of personal information in the offline-world as well as methods to provide consumers with access to information collected by them. 
   Despite our best efforts I recognize this bill does not address all of the  issues affecting online privacy. As I said earlier, this is a complex and difficult issue. Other related concerns that should be addressed will continue to arise as we consider this measure. For example, the sale of data during bankruptcy, the use of software also known as spyware that can transfer personal information while online without the user's consent or knowledge, and the government's use and dissemination of personally identifiable information online. 
   Additionally, other new ways to help resolve the issue of online privacy will also arise as we consider this measure. These include the deployment of technology that will enable consumers to protect their privacy is one issue we should expect to address. Another issue is the use of verifiable assessment procedures to ensure that websites are following their posted privacy policies. 
   The discovery of new issues and new solutions as we move through this process will serve to highlight the difficulty and complexity of dealing with this issue. It is not my intention to rush to judgment on these matters. Instead, I firmly believe the best way to protect consumers and provide for the continued growth of e-commerce is to give privacy careful and thoughtful deliberation before we act. 
   Mr. President, it is clear that businesses should inform consumers in a clear and conspicuous manner about how they treat personal information and give consumers meaningful choices as to how that information is used. While some of us may disagree on the manner in which we meet this goal, we all agree that it must be done. I look forward to working with my colleagues and addressing their concerns as we move through the legislative process. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print the full text of the bill in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to be joined by the Commerce Committee Aviation Subcommittee Chairman, Senator GORTON, to introduce a Senate resolution expressing our strong reservations about the proposed merger of United Airlines and US Airways. 
   Through Commerce Committee deliberations, Senator GORTON and I have carefully analyzed the proposed merger, as well as its long-term consumer effects. We conclude that whatever air travelers stand to gain from the merger is outweighed by what they stand to lose. 
   The public interest would likely be harmed by a United Airlines-US Airways merger. First, almost all analysts agree that the merger would trigger additional consolidation in the airline industry. The six largest hub-and- spoke carriers in the country would likely become the ``big three.'' Everything else being equal, basic economic principles suggest that consumers are better served by having six competitors in a market rather than three. 
   Even at this preliminary date, our experience bears out the prediction of additional industry consolidation. American Airlines has already made an offer for Northwest Airlines. Delta Air Lines and Continental have reportedly engaged in merger negotiations. 
   Consolidation among these network carriers poses additional problems for the flying public. The likely result of fewer carriers is more single-carrier concentration at hub airports across the country. Studies by the Department of Transportation, the General Accounting Office, and others consistently conclude that air fares are relatively higher at hub airports ``dominated'' by a single carrier. 
   Important new entry in the airline industry would be hurt by consolidation among the major airlines. The mega-carriers would have additional resources to engage in fierce and prolonged behavior designed to drive new competitors out of the market, and to single potential entrants that they dare not compete with the incumbent. 
   Today, many new entrants simply choose not to enter the major airlines' hub markets because they fear they cannot survive a sustained head-to-head battle. A United-US Airways merger, and the consolidation that would ensue, would further entrench the incumbent air carriers' positions. 
   I admit that there are benefits associated with the proposed United-US Airways merger. The carriers, for instance, tout ``seamless'' connections to international destinations, an expanded frequent flyer program, and similar benefits that should appeal to travelers on the United-US Airways system. 
   United and US Airways also applaud new service to a multitude of destinations as a consequence of the merger. It is important to note, however, that what is new to United is not exactly new to the flying public, since United's ``new'' service is made up of flights that are now offered by US Airways. 
   Again, the point is that the anti-competitive harm posed by the proposed United-US Airways merger outweighs its benefits. And that conclusion does not even take into account the customer service problems associated with integrating the work forces of two or more major airlines. 
   I want to underscore that this resolution is designed to express our concerns about the proposed United-US Airways merger. It does not seek to force any federal agency or department to take any specific action with respect to the proposed merger. However, our concerns for the consumer are of such a significant nature that we are compelled to introduce this resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to highlight one point Professor Kahn makes. He asserts that United's main justification for the merger is the need for a hub in the northeast. He goes on to question, however, why United doesn't create a hub in the northeast, rather than follow the path of ``least competitive resistance'' by trying to acquire on its competitors' hubs. Mr. President, I ask the same question, and urge my colleagues to join Senator GORTON and me in supporting this Senate resolution expressing our strong concerns about a United-US Airways merger. 
   Mr. President, I thank my friend and colleague, the distinguished chairman of the Aviation Subcommittee of the Commerce Committee who joined me in this resolution. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, before my friend from Nevada leaves the floor, I intend to make a couple of comments on his statement. One of the most valued members of the committee is Senator BRYAN from Nevada. 
   Senator REID and I came to the House of Representatives together many years ago. I consider us to have a very warm and excellent relationship over many years. 
   I will miss Senator BRYAN very much as he leaves--not only the Senate but as a much valued member of our committee. Coincidentally, on the issue of sports, Senator BRYAN and I were able to work together on a couple of boxing issues that a lot of our Members did not care much about. But hopefully we were able to assist some people who come from the lowest economic rung of our society and prevent, at least to some degree, the exploitation to which many of them are subjected. 
   I preface my comments with a brief response to both Senators from Nevada. Again, I say that with respect and affection. 
   I did not invent this legislation, nor did it come from any Member of this body. It came as a result of the National Gaming Impact Study Commission, a commission that met for a long time and came up with this strong recommendation. Then the issue was picked up by the NCAA coaches. Some of the most respected men and women in America, obviously, are our college coaches, people of the level of Dean Smith, Joe Paterno, Jim Calhoun, and so many others who have made this a high visibility and important issue, at least to them, including the presidents of the colleges and universities across the country. 
   I will not rebut their comments or try to respond to all 
   the comments made by Senator BRYAN, except to say I respect his view. But I do believe there is a compelling case that has been made, not by this Member but by the college coaches and the university presidents who say this is placing these young--as Coach Calhoun called them--kids in the path of temptation that is something that could be very unhealthy for them. 
   So I respect the views of my friends from Nevada. I hope we will have a vigorous debate on this issue, and hopefully we will be able to address it one way or another. But I do believe it is an issue of some importance, at least if you believe those who are closest to these young men and women, our college athletes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I am happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank Senator BRYAN. I will come to the floor sometime in September to chronicle his many accomplishments and the admiration and heartfelt affection I have for Senator BRYAN. But at the moment I say we will respectfully disagree. I think we will have both an interesting and, I hope, illuminating discussion of what has become, in the eyes of many, an important issue. I thank Senator BRYAN for his kind remarks. I will miss him, although I want to make it clear that he is not departing this Earth. In fact, he may be going to a much more rewarding and comfortable lifestyle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, let us imagine for a moment that a ragtag group of armed rebels in Australia was able to infiltrate the parliament in Canberra and put a gun to the head of the Australian Prime Minister. Let us imagine that these rebels, led by a failed indigenous businessman who claimed to speak for the native people and against those of European descent who had ``colonized'' the island, held  the Prime Minister and members of his government hostage for several months in the Parliament building. Let us also imagine that, during this period, central government authority across Australia withered as armed gangs set up roadblocks, occupied police stations and military barracks, torched homes and businesses owned by those with different ancestry, seized tourist resorts, and generally terrorized innocents across the country. 
   What would America's response be to such a violent takeover of a democratic government and the abduction of its prime minister by race-baiters who proclaimed that under their ``new order,'' there would be no place in government or, indeed, in society for those with different ethnic roots, and who reveled in the armed chaos they had inspired? At a minimum, I would expect the United States to impose tough sanctions on the illegitimate regime; mobilize our allies in Asia and at the U.N. Security Council to speak forcefully and with one voice against the coup; and join like-minded nations in resolutely affirming that the country in question would suffer lasting isolation and international condemnation until constitutional governance and the rule of law were restored. 
   Unfortunately, this scenario is playing out as we speak in Australia's neighbor Fiji, an island nation in the South Pacific that is home to some of the warmest, most gentle people I have had the pleasure of meeting. George Speight, an ethnic Fijian and failed businessman, led a coup on May 19 that toppled Fiji's democratically elected government and its first Indo-Fijian prime minister, Mahendra Chaudhry. Speight, whom the Economist calls a ``classic demagogue,'' is utterly disdainful of democracy, law, and Fijians of Indian descent, who constitute 44 percent of their nation's population. 
   If Speight has his way, democratic rule, racial harmony, and basic justice in Fiji have no future, and nearly half of Fiji's people, disenfranchised by the coup, will have been relegated to the status of second-class citizens and unwitting hostages of a government that abhors them for the color of their skin. As Speight bluntly puts it:  
   There will never be a government led by an Indian, ever, in Fiji. Constitutional democracy, the common-law version--that will never return.  
   The hostages, including the deposed Prime Minister, have been released, and Speight's forces have apparently cut a deal with Fiji's military and traditional leaders for the composition of a new government--a government led by an ailing figurehead controlled by the coup leader. The new cabinet will be comprised exclusively of ethnic Fijians, with the sole official of Indian descent relegated to a non-cabinet post as one of two assistant ministers for multi-ethnic affairs. The country's multi-racial constitution has been officially scrapped in favor of a document being prepared by the new government that ``is almost certain to reduce Indo-Fijians to political footnotes,'' in the words of one observer. The economy, and the tourist industry that sustains it, are in shambles. 
   Democracy is dead in Fiji. Rule by law has succumbed to the law of the jungle and one man, in league with armed criminals, has personally destroyed a successful experiment in representative, multi-ethnic rule. The United States must stand firm in our absolute refusal to ratify the results of a coup that ended democratic governance in Fiji. We cannot and shall not condone the violent establishment of a government and a constitution predicated on racial exclusion. We should be prepared to suspend what little amount of assistance we provide to Fiji if the government remains intransigent. More importantly, we and our allies in Asia and Europe should make clear that Fiji will remain isolated until the interim government in Suva establishes a clear blueprint for a return to democratic rule by an administration that does not include George Speight and his criminal allies. We cannot compromise on the principle that the Indo-Fijians who constitute nearly half of their nation's population must once again have a voice in its affairs. 
   The haunting words of an ethnic Fijian social worker vividly capture the agony of a nation that many people believe to be as close to paradise as can be found on this Earth. He laments: ``Fiji was such a nice place. We promoted it as `the way the world should be.' Now it is the devil's country.'' 
   Let us use the resources at our disposal as a great and moral nation to oust this devil and return Fiji's government to all of its people. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I have two additional comments. 
   There is a lot of unrest in Asia today. Indonesia is ridden with ethnic strife, a very important country that is the largest Moslem country in the world and one whose fortunes, economically and ethnically, have declined severely. 
   The Solomon Islands, an area where American blood was shed many years ago, has been mistreated by ethnic strife and armed gangs taking over and lawlessness and banditry being the order of the day there. 
   In Fiji, we see, again, ethnic unrest that is harmful not only to the country, but the people who are most affected first will be the poorest people in Fiji, many of them the ethnic Fijians whose livelihood is gained from the now disappearing tourist industry. 
   Finally, the United States has a special obligation as the world's leader. I think we as Americans are most proud that, following World War II, we began to redress some of the wrongs we had inflicted on some of our own fellow citizens. After a titanic civil rights struggle, we are at least on the path to assuring equality for all in this great Nation of ours. For us to sit by and watch an ethnic group be subjected to a constitution and rulers that place them in a permanent inferior status, flies in the face of everything the United States has stood for and, clearly, in our assertion that all men and women are created equal and endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. 
   I hope the administration, the American people, and those of our allies, in Asia and all over the world, including at the United Nations, will do whatever they can to restore equality and equal opportunity in this very lovely island. 
   It is important for me to note that I visited this beautiful country on several occasions, which is one reason why I have a very special feeling for it and a special sense of sadness because it is a beautiful country filled with very gentle people. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to engage several of my colleagues in a colloquy about some regulations which the Department of the Interior is preparing to issue in final form. These regulations would govern the federal and tribal administration of the Tribal Self-Governance program. I understand there is strong opposition from American Indian and Alaska Native groups to a handful of the proposed provisions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I share the concerns raised by the Indian tribes, and would note that in 1994 when we enacted the Tribal Self-Governance Act, the Congress expressly authorized the tribal self-governance effort to go forward without regulations. At the same time, we required the Department to engage in a negotiated rulemaking with tribal government representatives to develop mutually acceptable rules. Now it appears that this effort has been largely successful. There are hundreds of provisions that have been developed and mutually accepted by the tribal and federal representatives. These should be permitted to go forward. But as to the eight or so provisions upon which there is a negotiation impasse, I believe it would be contrary to the intent of the 1994 Act and to the negotiated rulemaking process to impose objectionable provisions upon the Indian tribes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I want to inquire of the chairman on one of these eight impasse issues. Is it your understanding that the Department would have the regulatory authority, in one of the objectionable regulatory provisions, to delete unilaterally certain provisions in the various Compacts of Self-Governance that the Department has signed with various tribal governments and that have existed as long as nine years? I thought we expressly indicated in 1994 when we gave permanent authority to the Tribal Self-Governance Demonstration program that these Compacts and Annual Funding Agreements are to be bilateral agreements reached on a government-to-government basis that cannot be unilaterally amended by the Department? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I hope the Department will withdraw its proposals to regulate in each of these eight areas. The negotiated rulemaking process works best when it is based upon consensus, and in these eight instances the Department has failed to make its case for regulations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000725</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation that will amend the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental and Native America Public Policy Act of 1992 to expand opportunities for the Morris K. Udall Foundation to assist tribal governments with leadership and management training. I am pleased that Senator INOUYE is an original cosponsor of this legislation. 
   This legislation is mostly technical in nature. It extends the authority of the Udall Foundation, located at the University of Arizona in Tucson, to implement a leadership and management training program, to be called the ``Native Nations Institute for Leadership, Management and Policy.'' 
   The 1992 Act which created the Udall Foundation is already authorized to implement programs to assist tribal governments with training for Native American and Alaska Native professionals in public policy. This legislation simply authorizes the Udall Foundation to carry out another step in its mission. 
   The Native Nations Institute will provide practical leadership and management training as well as policy analysis, in a variety of fields, for native people and communities to further the goals of tribal self-governance. The Native Nations Institute will facilitate this training through a unique partnership between the University of Arizona, the Udall Foundation and the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development. 
   Mr. President, the Native Nations Institute will enable tribal leaders and decision-makers to access professional leadership and management training to prepare current and future tribal leaders to tackle the socioeconomic, educational and other fundamental challenges facing tribal communities. 
   Companion legislation has been introduced in the House with bipartisan support. In the short time remaining in this Congressional session, I hope that we can proceed with prompt passage of this legislation. 
   I ask unanimous consent to include the text of the legislation in the RECORD immediately following my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending Cochran amendment be laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, at the appropriate time I intend to propose an amendment. I will be glad to discuss it at this time. Perhaps the Senator from Nevada could clarify for me when it might be appropriate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, is it the desire of the distinguished manager, the Senator from Mississippi, that I go ahead and discuss the amendment or wait until a resolution of the pending Harkin and Cochran amendments? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator. 
   Mr. President, I am prepared to enter into a time agreement on this amendment. Whatever is agreeable to the Senator from Mississippi and the Senator from Wisconsin would be fine. 
   I will be proposing an amendment, joined by Senators GREGG and SCHUMER, that will stop the Federal Government from wasting taxpayers' dollars on an unnecessary and outdated sugar program that costs consumers as much as $2 billion in inflated sugar prices. 
   I ask unanimous consent to have Senator LUGAR added as a cosponsor of this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. The amendment is simple. It withholds funding for the costly Federal sugar program for fiscal year 2001. 
   Mr. President, my colleagues and I are here today to say enough is enough. The American taxpayers have subsidized the sugar industry, with price support loans and strict import quotas in various forms, since 1934. Each year American taxpayers pay close to $2 billion in artificially high sugar prices and this year paid an additional $60 million to bail out sugar producers facing massive loan defaults. 
   We're not here today to dispute the choice of sugar as a consumer product. Most Americans buy some type of sugar product on a daily basis--a can of soda or a candy bar--and most Americans buy various types of sugar products every time they shop in a supermarket. What we object to, as consumers purchase these products, is that the federal government is unfairly overcharging them. 
   The sugar program has outlived other agricultural commodity subsidies that have since been phased out through past farm bills. However, the retention of this flawed program has not been dictated by common sense or sound economics, but political influence. 
   Originally, the sugar program was intended to prop up sugar prices to ensure a profit for sugar farmers. Unfortunately, the higher prices result in the usual ``trickle-down'' effect. Food companies have to pay the higher price for sugar, which is then passed on in the form of higher prices for sugar products. The average consumer ends up paying the cost of sugar subsidies in the grocery store. 
   Let me take a few moments to explain why federal assistance for the sugar program should end. 
   First of all, it is unfair to American consumers. A recent GAO report confirms what we have known all along,  that American consumers pay close to $2 billion each year in inflated sugar prices. Mandatory price quotas are imposed on American-grown sugar at roughly 22-24 cents a pound compared to 6 cents a pound for sugar grown in other parts of the world. 
   This past year, in 1999, U.S. sugar prices were four times higher than the world price. 
   The benefits of the sugar program are hopelessly lopsided. Approximately 42 percent of all sugar program benefits go to 1 percent of growers. These are not small family farmers, but big sugar tycoons who obtained millions through this federal subsidy. Four sugar cane companies in Florida received more than $20 million. One grower receives close to $65 million annually from this subsidy. About 30 sugar growers were also able to collect one million each from this subsidy. That is not small business; that is not a small farmer. 
   Mr. President, these sugar growers--and I will be naming them and identifying them--have been incredibly generous politically. They have been heavily involved in contributing to both parties in very large amounts of money. 
   Second, the federal sugar program is anti-free market and anti-free trade. The sugar program severely limits imports of lower-priced foreign sugar into the American market so farmers can make a profit through higher prices. 
   The end result, unfortunately, is that this overpricing has caused an overproduction of sugar. This excess supply of sugar drives prices below the guaranteed price level. This type of policy is absurd and has damaged our credibility in the world market. 
   Large-scale sugar growers in Florida contribute directly to the devastation of the Everglades wetlands through increasing sugar cane production. Again, high sugar prices lead to overproduction of sugar. Florida's sugarcane industry is situated near one of America's most pristine freshwater lakes. The direct conversion of sensitive wetlands to sugarcane production and the accompanying agricultural runoff flowing into the Everglades have a direct impact in the decimation of one of America's most treasured ecosystems. 
   For years, sugar cane producers were able to resist and avoid any responsibility for cleanup. The small portion they are now required to pay for cleanup hardly makes a dent into the billions estimated for restoration of the Everglades. 
   Who makes up the difference in these costs? Again, the taxpayers make up the difference by paying nearly a third of the restoration costs. 
   I have spent a fair amount of time in the State of Florida. There is a growing, deep, and very legitimate concern about the Everglades. There is no doubt that the flow of pesticides into the Everglades is directly related to sugarcane growing and has had a direct impact on the ecology of that very fragile ecosystem which is an American treasure, not just a Florida treasure. We should at best not subsidize people who engage in the growing of sugarcane which causes direct damage to one of the most beautiful spots in all the world. 
   Finally, American taxpayers had to pay for a multi-million bail out for sugar processors who did not meet their loan obligations. Earlier this year, the administration spent $60 million to purchase more than 150,000 tons of surplus sugar to prevent mass forfeitures. 
   Why are taxpayers bearing the brunt of these defaulted loans? Because a fundamental flaw in the federal sugar policy allows sugar producers to forfeit their crops to USDA if the market price falls below the loan rate. Sugar producers turn over excess sugar to USDA, keep their loan money and the federal government has to absorb the loss. In other words, if sugar producers are unable to sell their sugar, the federal government promises to buy all the sugar they produce. 
   Often, forfeited sugar is sold at a substantial loss to the federal government. The federal government has no options under the existing sugar program--if the government does not spend millions buying excess sugar, it loses out anyway as sugar processors default on their loans and are not required to pay back to the federal government. With a surplus of sugar in the world market, the federal government will not be able to sell this excess unwanted sugar. It's a double-whammy. 
   Mr. President, these forfeitures are a direct cost to the American taxpayers. 
   And, even worse, this may be only a foreshadowing of a tidal wave yet to come. The federal government may be forced to spend millions more in purchasing additional sugar if the sugar industry has their way. The big sugar lobby is already pressuring USDA to purchase more sugar at a cost of $100 to $500 million on further sugar bail-outs before the end of this year. 
   How is this absurdity allowed to continue? 
   Mr. President, the answer is clear. The sugar program is alive because of well-financed sugar interests, or the ``Iron Triangle'' of the commodity world. Sugar interest represent one of the highest soft money contributors nationwide. 
   Between 1995 to 1999, the sugar industry contributed more than $7 million in soft-money contributions, more than any other commodity group. In 1999 alone, the sugar industry contributed $1.5 million in soft-money contributions to both sides of the aisle. The famous Fanjul family of Flo-Sun sugar industries, known as the ``First Family of Corporate Welfare,'' are among the most generous benefactors in soft money contributions. Sugar interests are cashing in at the register at the expense of consumers, and turning that profit into political influence to keep their stronghold on this federal subsidy. 
   Before I conclude, I want to highlight several commentaries about the sugar program in a few prominent media programs and articles. 
   Fallacies of the sugar program earned special coverage as part of a ``Fleecing of America'' segment on NBC's ``Nightly News with Tom Brokaw.'' During this segment, Art Jaeger from the Consumer Federation of America claims, ``the program gives too little money to the farmers who need the help, too much money to farmers who don't need the help.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I now quote from the April 27, 2000, article from the Wall Street Journal entitled ``Big Sugar Seeks Bailout.''  
   Never have old hands at the Agriculture Department seen such a turnout: 11 U.S. senators trooping into Secretary Dan Glickman's office to lobby for a big sugar-industry bailout. 
   ``When you have 11 senators showing up,'' says Florida sugar-company executive Robert Buker, ``that's horsepower''--enough power, he believes, to push an ambivalent Clinton administration into an unprecedented market intervention to bail out distressed U.S. sugar producers. 
   The producers are floundering beneath a market-depressing glut of sugar. Come October, they face another problem: a tenfold jump in Mexican sugar imports. The federal sugar-loan program, which has cosseted them for nearly two decades, is suddenly in danger of imploding. 
   So, to shore up the domestic market, sugar lobbyists are imploring administration officials to authorize a bold sugar-buying spree. Only by spending $100 million now to buy sugar and boost market prices, they contend, can the government hope to head off a much costlier wave of sugar-loan forfeitures later this summer, in the midst of an election campaign.  
   Mr. President, the article is very revealing in that it describes the top contributors in the year 1999 and the amounts of money that have been distributed. It is quite remarkable in its entirety. 
   I quote from an article in Time magazine, November 1998, entitled: ``Sweet Deal, Why Are These Men Smiling? The Reason is in Your Sugar Bowl.''  
   Occupying a breathtaking spot on the southeast coast of the Dominican Republic, Casa de Campo is one of the Caribbean's most storied resorts ..... and that's truth in advertising. The place has 14 swimming pools, a world-class shooting ground, PGA-quality golf courses and $1,000-a-night villas. 
   A thousand miles to the northwest, in the Florida Everglades, the vista is much different. Chemical runoff from the corporate cultivation of sugar cane imperils vegetation and wildlife. Polluted water spills out of the glades into Florida Bay, forming a slimy, greenish brown stain where fishing once thrived. 
   Both sites are the by-product of corporate welfare. 
   In this case the beneficiaries are the Fanjul family of Palm Beach, Fla. The name means nothing to most Americans, but the Fanjuls might be considered the First Family of Corporate Welfare. They own Flo-Sun Inc., one of the nation's largest producers of raw sugar. As such, they benefit from federal policies that compel American consumers to pay artificially high prices for sugar. 
   Since the Fanjuls control about one-third of Florida's sugar-cane production, that means they collect at least $60 million a year in subsidies, according to an analysis of General Accounting Office calculations. It's the sweetest of deals, and it's made the family, the proprietors of Casa de Campo, one of America's richest. 
   The subsidy has had one other consequence: it has helped create an environmental catastrophe in the Everglades. Depending on whom you talk to, it will cost anywhere from $3 billion to $8 billion to repair the Everglades by building new dikes, rerouting canals and digging new lakes. 
   Growers are committed to pay up to $240 million over 20 years for the cleanup. Which means the industry that created much of the problem will have to pay only a fraction of the cost to correct it. Government will pay the rest. As for the Fanjuls, a spokesman says they are committed to pay about $4.5 million a year.  
   Do a little arithmetic. We got $60 million in Federal subsidies, of which they will pay $4.5 million for the Everglades. Not a bad deal.  
   How did this disaster happen? With your tax dollars. How will it be fixed? With your tax dollars. 
   It is not news that sugar is richly subsidized, or that the Fanjuls have profited so handsomely. Even as recently as 1995, when Congress passed legislation to phase out price supports for a cornucopia of agricultural products, raw sugar was spared. Through a combination of loan guarantees and tariffs on imported sugar, domestic farmers like the Fanjuls are shielded from real-world prices. So in the U.S., raw sugar sells for about twenty-two cents a pound, more than double the prices most of the world pays. The cost to Americans: at least $1.4 billion in the form of higher prices for candy, soda and other sweet things of life. A GAO study, moreover, has estimated that nearly half the subsidy goes to large sugar producers like the Fanjuls. 
   A spokesman for Flo-Sun, Jorge Dominicis, said the company disagrees with the GAO's estimate on the profits the Fanjuls and other growers derive from the program. 
   ``That is supposed to imply somehow that our companies receive $60 million in guaranteed profits,'' he said, ``and that is flat-out not true. Our companies don't make anywhere near that kind of profit.'' 
   Dominicis, like other proponents of the sugar program, contends that it doesn't cost taxpayers a penny and is not unlike government protection of other American industries. ``If our [sugar policy] is corporate welfare, which I don't believe it is, then all trade policy is corporate welfare,'' he says. 
   Flo-Sun is run by four Fanjul brothers, Alfonso (``Alfie''), Jose (``Pepe''), Andres and Alexander. Their family dominated Cuba's sugar industry for decades, and they came to this country with their parents in 1959, after Fidel Castro seized power. The Fanjuls arrived just as a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers project to control the flow of water in the Florida Everglades made large-scale development possible. The total acreage planted in sugar cane there soared--from 50,000 acres in 1960 to more than 420,000 today. 
   Within that swampy paradise lies yet another subsidy. Each year, according to a 1997 estimate, the Army Corps of Engineers spends $63 million to control water flow in central and south Florida. This enables growers to obtain water when they need it or restrain the flow during heavy rains. Of the $63 million, the Corps estimates $52 million is spent on agriculture, mainly sugar-cane farmers, in the Everglades.  
   The article further states:  
   Though by no means the largest special interest in Washington, the sugar lobby is one of the most well-heeled. And among growers, the Fanjuls are big givers. And among growers, the Fanjuls are big givers. Family members and corporate executives have contributed nearly $1 million so far in this decade, dividing the money fairly evenly between political parties. 
   This knack for covering for political bases carries all the way to the top of the Fanjul empire. Alfonso Fanjul served as co-chairman of Bill Clinton's Florida campaign in 1992. His brother Pepe was national vice chairman of finance for Bob Dole's presidential campaign in 1996 and was host to a $1,000-a-head fund raiser for Dole at his Palm Beach mansion. After Clinton's 1992 victory, Alfie was a member of the select group invited by the Clinton camp to attend the President-elect's ``economic summit'' in Little Rock, Ark. 
   Careful readers of Kenneth Starr's impeachment report to Congress will note that on Feb. 19, 1996. ..... The two spoke for 22 minutes. The topic: a proposed tax on sugar farmers to pay for the Everglades cleanup. Fanjul reportedly told the President he and other growers opposed such a step, since it would cost them millions. Such a tax has never been passed. 
   That is access. 
   I will be glad to continue this debate, and I will be glad to again enter into a time agreement on this amendment when it is appropriate for me to have it considered by the full Senate. 
   I ask unanimous consent to add Senator BROWNBACK and Senator FITZGERALD as cosponsors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I could spend more time. I ask unanimous consent an article from the Savannah Morning News entitled ``Two Sides of the American Dream'' be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. There was an Associated Press article of May 12 entitled ``Sugar Growers Get Bailout: Purchase of Surplus Will Cost Taxpayers About $60 Million.'' I ask unanimous consent that be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I quote:  
   The Agriculture Department put off the decision about what to do with the sugar, which will cost taxpayers about $60 million. The department has considered donating it overseas or else selling it at a steep discount for refining into ethanol, a fuel additive normally made from corn. 
   ``The sugar program does not need Band-Aids, it needs major surgery,'' groups opposed to the program said in a letter last month to Glickman. 
   Glickman urged sugar growers to cut back on plantings by idling land in the government's Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers to take acreage out of production.  
   Obviously, that has not happened. 
   I want to quote from an interesting one on June 16. Brian Williams of NBC Nightly News:  
   Now time for ``The Fleecing of America.'' We have told you here before about price supports for sugar producers in this country, consumers paying what amounts to a hidden tax. Now, according to a new report from the General Accounting Office, what some already consider an outrageous fleecing of America is about to get even worse. Here's NBC's Lisa Myers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator mentioned a very important marketing assessment, which had been taken out in last year's 
   omnibus bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator allow me to answer his question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It is too bad the Senator will not yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I say to the Senator from North Dakota, it is a frivolous statement. It has no connection to the estimated $1.5 billion. The Senator from North Dakota said that I have been quoting from newspaper articles, et cetera. The Senator from North Dakota usually relies on the GAO. 
   I have heard him quote from the GAO quite often. What the GAO is saying is the sugar program cost domestic sweetener users about $1.5 billion in 1996 and $1.9 billion in 1998. 
   If a foreign government was subsidizing anything--as they are Airbus; and the United States with Boeing--of course, I would take my complaint to the World Trade Organization and we would see about the outcome. I would not build further protectionist barriers for a private manufacturer of any product whether they be tanks or not. 
   The Senator from North Dakota recently espoused fervently that we means test the estate taxes, the so-called death taxes. There was great lamenting on the other side of the aisle about the fact that wealthy people would get off scot-free, and that we should not let them be completely absolved from estate taxes. 
   Will the Senator from North Dakota agree to a means testing on the amount of money so that the Fanjul brothers will not get $65 million a year of Arizona taxpayers' and North Dakota taxpayers' dollars? At least you could agree to a means testing of this, rather than 42 percent of all these subsidies going to 1 percent of the sugar growers in America. 
   So my answer to the question from the Senator from North Dakota: No, I would never agree to what he is saying. I would agree, however, to take the proper measures to remove protectionism on both sides of the Atlantic and all over the world. That is why I am a supporter of free trade. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I see my friend from North Dakota on the floor. Of course our entire relationship is characterized by respect. Obviously he makes a strong case for his point of view. I not only respect but I appreciate and enjoy the verbal exchanges we have from time to time. He is a worthy adversary. I will not take very long. 
   It was alleged that marketing assessments are large amounts of money. That is true. I believe it is $272 million or something such as that. But I think it is appropriate to mention that those marketing assessments in last year's omnibus bill were done away with. The sugar producers do nothing to address the budget deficit. I think an argument can be made that this Senator from Arizona may not be the most expert on agricultural issues. I plead guilty to that. I believe there are other issues in which I am better informed. 
   A cosponsor of this amendment is the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Senator LUGAR. Senator LUGAR is in support of this amendment. I am honored that the chairman of the committee is in support of this amendment. I think his viewpoint should also be taken into consideration, particularly with more gravity than mine. 
   There was a study conducted by the Center for International Economics. It was prepared as part of the trade agenda and conference on the 1st and 2nd of October 1999 in Geneva. I will read the beginning of this study:  
   If ever there was a case for multilateral trade liberalisation, and if ever there was a liberalisation from which the global economy stood to gain, it is sugar. The world sugar market contains some of the largest and most blatant forms of trade protection. Many of these have a 300 year history. The worst of the worst are in developed countries. They greatly distort trade and prices. Although the world economy, consumers and efficient sugar producers stand to gain substantially from liberalisation, some producers, especially those in developed countries, stand to lose. And herein lies a political challenge--there are large vested interests that are likely to oppose sugar trade liberalisation. In the Uruguay Round these vested interests won hands down. Should they win again, they are likely to further undermine developed country credibility in the WTO and the WTO itself. Ultimately countries unilaterally liberalise trade. The best that multilateral forums can do is to assist that process. The biggest gains in trade liberalisation come form reducing the biggest distortions first. Giving prominence to sugar and other highly protected products in the WTO millennium round makes economic sense. Such prominence is also needed to help counter the vested interests opposed to reform.  
   They go on to say:  
   This taxation of consumers and protection of producers is highest in Japan, Western Europe and the United States.  
   We are the leading proponent of free and open trade. The United States has an enviable record, whether it be the North American Free Trade Agreement. Whether it be expansion of economic trade relations with China through Democrat and Republican 
   administrations, we have been in pursuit of free trade. Clearly, we lose credibility when we stand as one of the highest protectionists for our sugar industry.  
   I say again with respect to my friend from North Dakota and the opponents of this amendment that I will be glad to work with them at least to means test this subsidy. Why in the world should one family get $65 million in subsidies? That is remarkable when you think about it. Adding to that, they are harming the Everglades. Every objective study indicates that the runoff from pesticides and other pollutants in the Everglades is dramatically damaging the Everglades. Yes. The sugar companies are paying some money, but in comparison to the overall cost, the estimated cost of fixing the Everglades is minuscule. 
   I am not without sympathy for the farmers in North Dakota. I am not without sympathy for the farmers in Montana, Louisiana, and Idaho. But when they are encouraged to grow a crop which they would not grow if it were not for the subsidies, and in addition in some parts of America they are doing damage to our environment, then it is time we said enough. 
   Again, I strongly support a proposal to means test and to phase out these sugar subsidies. We phased out a large number of subsidies when we passed the Freedom to Farm Act. I would agree that the Freedom to Farm Act has had very mixed results. In fact, there are questions raised by many. 
   We eliminated and phased out wool, butter, cheese, powdered milk, and other dairies. We capped cotton and reduced peanuts, wheat, and others. But we retain two quite remarkable products; that is, sugar and tobacco. I promise not to bore my colleagues with a tirade about tobacco. But the fact is that the sugar subsidy is one which needs to be eliminated. I think we all know that. 
   It is my understanding that the Senator from North Dakota, Senator DORGAN, after his remarks, will make a motion to table. I am certainly in agreement with that, or if there are other speakers, I would be glad to join into a time agreement, whatever is agreeable, with the Senator from Mississippi and the Senator from Wisconsin. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask the indulgence of my friend for a unanimous consent agreement that has been cleared on both sides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. This allows the Commerce Committee to meet off the floor for the purposes of approving the nomination of Mr. Norman Mineta to be the Secretary of Commerce. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask consent, notwithstanding any rule or other order, it be in order for the Commerce Committee to meet in executive session for the purpose only of reporting nominations to the Executive Calendar. Among those nominations is that of Mr. Norman Mineta, former Congressman and nominee to be Secretary of Commerce, immediately following the next rollcall vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in objection to the amendment. Bismarck said there are two things you never want to see made, and that is laws and sausages. This really is another one of these wonderful sausages. 
   If a government student from a college or high school or university from around the country came here and was sitting in the galleries observing this, and someone told them we are now addressing the agricultural appropriations bill, one would then assume that it has to do with agriculture and farmers, the agricultural section of this country, and that it would probably have some very worthy aspects of it. 
   Then this student observes the Senator from Pennsylvania stand up and say: We are going to get the GSA to lease automobiles for Amtrak. Excuse me? That is a railroad. 
   For the benefit of those students who observe these things, I would like to tell you how we got here. 
   Amtrak first came to my committee--which happens to be, although it is routinely ignored lately, the authorizing committee particularly as we go through the appropriations process. They came to the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee and said: We would like to have this done--although interestingly stated by the Senator from Pennsylvania--because basically they do not want to have to pay to lease automobiles to have their operations go forward. They wanted us to put it in as part of the National Transportation Safety Board reauthorization. 
   After examining their proposal, and knowing that the whole object of the reform of Amtrak was to make them independent of the Federal Government, and now they want to take advantage of a situation that only governmental organizations can take care of --that is, General Services Administration leasing--we said no. 
   They have some pretty highly paid lobbyists around town. They are pretty influential. They went to the government oversight committee, to Senator THOMPSON, and to his staff. They tried to float it by them because Senator THOMPSON's Committee on Governmental Affairs has oversight of the General Services Administration. 
   Senator THOMPSON, his staff, and his committee rejected it out of hand--again because a nongovernment organization should not have access to the facilities and capabilities that a governmental organization does. That was rejected. 
   The Amtrak lobbyists were flailing around town. Senator THOMPSON honored me with a phone call. He said: How do you explain the fact that the  whole effort of the Amtrak Reform Accountability Act, Public Law 104-34, was intended to make Amtrak independent of the Federal Government--which, by the way, is not too important, to revisit history. 
   In 1971, Amtrak was formed for only 2 years, I say to my colleagues, and then to be completely independent. Of course, after being at the Government trough since 1971, we finally decided that they had just about enough when we enacted the Amtrak Reform Accountability Act. 
   They finally found a willing servant and messenger in the Senator from Pennsylvania, and I congratulate him. So here we are with an amendment on the Agriculture appropriations bill that has to do with Amtrak, which, as the Senator from Pennsylvania alluded to, he rides regularly. I am sure he is an avid supporter of it. But this is $15 million. Actually, they came to us the first time and said it was a $4 million deal. It has increased somehow magically in the last 6 weeks or so to $15 million. I guess that dramatized the gravity of their situation. 
   I say to my government student who is observing this, I can tell you that the way we ended up with this particular sausage is that the Amtrak lobbyists with all of their influence could not get what they wanted through the committee of oversight. They couldn't get what we wanted through another committee of oversight; staff and those who had jurisdiction rejected this idiotic proposal out of hand. So now we have an amendment on the Agriculture appropriations bill. 
   The supporters of this amendment allege its purpose is to correct an unintended--in the words of the Senator from Pennsylvania, unintended and unintentional--consequence of legislation enacted in 1997, the Amtrak Reform Accountability Act. Not so. Not so. The whole purpose of the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997, of which I was a part, was to divorce Amtrak from the Federal Government and the largess and the perks and other good deals that can be had being a part of the Federal Government. 
   Have no doubt, my friends, coming from a Senator who was intimately involved in the act, there was no unintended consequence. There was no inadvertency associated with it. This is simply an attempt on the part of Amtrak to save themselves $4 million, or $15 million, whatever it is. 
   One of the main purposes of the act is to direct Amtrak to run more as a real for-profit business. There are other organizations, such as Fannie Mae, that are in exactly the same status as Amtrak. Fannie Mae doesn't get GSA leasing of their cars. Freddie Mac doesn't get GSA leasing of their cars. But we are going to do it for Amtrak. 
   I guarantee you, my friends, we are going to have a hearing in September, I say to my colleagues, on this great reform, and all of this success which the Senator from Pennsylvania just trumpeted, you are going to find out it is not true. As far as I know, Amtrak is going to be feeding from the public trough for as long as any Member of this body is alive. 
   We just had a Member of the advisory committee resign in disgust and anger over what has transpired since this act was passed in 1997. 
   I don't expect to win. I don't expect to win this amendment. But I am going to make the American people aware of this bizarre situation where we have a railroad formed in 1971, and the commitment at that time was that railroad would be Government supported for 2 years. Count them: One, two. Since 1971, in the intervening 29 years, the billions and billions and billions of taxpayer dollars that have been expended on Amtrak stagger the imagination. Someday, somebody will write a very interesting treatise. In fact, several have already been written. 
   In regard to the arguments of ``unintended consequences,'' let me assure my colleagues we have experienced a slew of unintended consequences since the reform law was enacted--a slew of unintended consequences. Let me mention a couple. 
   When we all agreed to remove the former board of directors so Amtrak would have a clean slate with new leadership and fresh ideas, we never thought the board members serving at the time of enactment would then be appointed to the new reform board. But that is what happened. 
   When we called for the creation of an 11-member Amtrak reform council and were specific about membership criteria and eligibility, we never expected the one representative of the rail industry to be a sitting mayor not affiliated with the industry at all. But that is what occurred, my friends--laws and sausages. 
   When we authorized substantial capital and operating funds for the duration of the 5-year bill, we never expected the administration to request only about half of the authorized funding. But that is what occurred, despite the nonstop rhetoric about the administration's support for Amtrak. 
   When we were all convinced that Amtrak would utilize the $2.2 billion ``tax refund''--one of the more interesting sausages that were fashioned here in the Senate; there was a $2.2 billion tax refund on taxes that was never paid, one of the more interesting ones I have seen here--we were all convinced that Amtrak would utilize the $2.2 billion ``tax refund'' released by enactment of the reform legislation for high return capital investments--the commitment of the $2.2 billion for high return capital investments. We didn't expect Amtrak to use that money to pay for gym membership, movie tickets, and for some of its labor force. But that is what occurred. 
   I can understand Amtrak's desire to undo parts of the 1997 law it no longer likes. I am certain a number of Members would like to change certain things about the law here and there, particularly as we are getting closer to the operational self-sufficiency deadline in 2 years. 
   By the way, there is no outside expert who believes we will reach that operational self-sufficiency deadline, which we will carefully examine as the committee of oversight, as the committee that is responsible for the authorizing--not the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   We will examine it. But I believe an agreement is an agreement. And this bill was adopted unanimously. 
   I think Amtrak should be relieved we are not instead requiring it to repay the Treasury for the money it saved by participating illegally in the program for nearly 3 years. Amtrak has been participating in this program, as judged by outside observers, illegally. It should have been halted. 
   It is true not all Members share the same perspective concerning the obligation imposed upon the American taxpayers to fund Amtrak for its 29 years of subsidization, even though Amtrak was to have been free of all Federal assistance 2 years after it was established in 1971. However, we did work together and support enactment of reform legislation with the intent to give Amtrak the tools it said it needed to become operationally self-sufficient. 
   I have not acted to alter the agreement reached as part of the reform legislation, and I find it a breech of that agreement that Amtrak and others are routinely seeking changes through the appropriations process to allow it to do things not approved by the authorizing committee of jurisdiction. Be assured, I say to my colleagues now, we have a little dust up here. But when Amtrak tries to obtain a $10 billion funding scheme, there is going to be a big fight about that one, my friends. I know it is coming. It hasn't fulfilled the first and quite substantial statutory obligation to operate free of taxpayer expense. 
   Amtrak asked for legislation that allowed it to operate more as a private business, and we enacted such legislation. As other former Government-controlled agencies have moved toward privatization, they didn't enjoy the freedom to pick and choose what governmental support programs they could use to their advantage. When Congress set up other corporations such as Freddie Mac, COMSAT, and Fannie Mae, they did not and do not participate in GSA leasing. The fact is, nongovernmental entities do not participate in the GSA vehicle leasing program. Amtrak can't have it both ways, although they probably will. 
   Finally, I find it very strange that since this issue was brought to my attention in March, Amtrak has said the GSA leasing eligibility saves $4 million annually--probably a lot of money to a company that lost more than $900 million last year; $900 million was all they lost last year. Yet now that an amendment is being offered on the floor, Amtrak has raised the bar and this week  Amtrak is telling me the provision would save some $15 million annually. Which of Amtrak's numbers should we believe? At a minimum, the authorizing committee should have an opportunity to explore this new figure before we are asked to adopt any changes in existing law. 
   As I said, we will be having a hearing on Amtrak, as is our responsibility as the authorizing committee, in early September to carefully explore this and many other critical issues. Until this issue has been looked at by the committee of jurisdiction, I urge my colleagues to defeat the amendment. 
   We find ourselves, a week before leaving, with an amendment that was first sought to be addressed by the committee of authorization, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. We refused to do so because it was clearly not in keeping with the law. Then they went to another committee of authorization. They wouldn't do it. So now what does the Senator from Pennsylvania do? Something to do with Amtrak, a train, is on the Agriculture appropriations bill. 
   Another example of laws and sausages. To all those 
   students of government who may be watching and observing this bizarre process, my friends, it is an argument for reform of the way we do business in this body. The authorizing committees are becoming more and more irrelevant as each legislative day goes by. I am close to the point where we either do away with the Appropriations Committee or we do away with the authorizing committees. To come on this floor and have a clear legislative change, even though it may not meet the exact parameters of germaneness in rule XVI, and make a clear elective change on a bill that has nothing to do, first of all as an appropriations bill, and second of all has no relation to Amtrak, I find offensive. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, if there has been any offense taken by the Senator from Pennsylvania, it was not intended, and I would hope he would accept my apologies if he took offense. I think this amendment is wrong. 
   It is inappropriate, and it is dead wrong, and the facts, as I stated as to how this amendment got on an Agriculture appropriations bill, are accurate. It first went to the Commerce Committee where they tried to get us to do it, and we would not because we do not believe it is in keeping with the law. 
   Then they went to the Governmental Affairs Committee and now it has ended up being put as an amendment on the Agriculture appropriations bill. That is wrong. I did not challenge the parliamentary right of the Senator from Pennsylvania to do so. We had the same parliamentary reading that the Senator from Pennsylvania did. 
   I think this amendment is a violation of the agreement that was made in 1997 in the form of the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act, P.L. 105-134. 
   Again, if the Senator from Pennsylvania took offense at something I said personally, then he has my apologies. That does not change the fact that this amendment is the wrong thing to do. I strongly oppose it, and I believe if we continue, as I said in the conclusion of my remarks previously, if we continue to authorize and legislate on appropriations bills, this practice will continue the breakdown of the procedures that are intended and established by the Senate. 
   I stand by those words, and I again say, even though it may not be in violation of the strict parliamentary rules, it is wrong to put an amendment concerning Amtrak on Agriculture appropriations bills. I believe I have that right to believe that is an inappropriate way, and the Commerce Committee or the Governmental Affairs Committee should have reviewed this and did review it and should be allowed the jurisdiction. 
   Nor did I at any time tell the Senator, or in my remarks to the body, that every Senator does not have their right to a proposed amendment on whatever issue they wish. That is why we have a Parliamentarian. Never at any time--certainly not this Senator--would I say that an individual Senator should be deprived of his or her rights since I exercise those with some frequency. 
   I hope that clarifies the intent of my remarks which are that this amendment is not in keeping with the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act, and I do not believe--and as a Senator I have the right to the view--that it is not appropriate to be placed on an Agriculture appropriations bill. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I will be brief. 
   I am very pleased that the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee is going to raise a point of order, very shortly, on the first amendment, the Harkin amendment. I do not pretend to have the budget knowledge and expertise of the distinguished chairman of the Budget Committee, but I do know that when he becomes exercised about what is taking place, at an ever-increasing crescendo of additional spending, about which Members really have no information or knowledge, we have to bring this to a halt at some point. 
   I say to my colleagues now, I will make every effort to prevent us from going out of session without the appropriations process being resolved. No  more should we all go home while four or five Members of Congress decide on omnibus appropriations bills and then we are called back to vote ``yea'' or ``nay'' on a bill that none of us has had a chance to know or read. 
   Every year, for the last 3 years, we have been assured that this will not happen again. Well, my friends, I will do everything in my power not to have it happen again. 
   But let me point out, the Harkin amendment, which we just saw--this amendment which was about to be adopted by voice vote in the package of amendments totaling $960 million, which none of us had seen--let me just describe it to you. 
   It says:  
   For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations,'' to repair damages to the waterways and watersheds, including the purchase of floodplain easements, resulting from natural disasters, $70,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds shall be used for activities identified by July 18, 2000 .......  
   Let me repeat that:  
   ..... That funds shall be used for activities identified by July 18, 2000.......  
   That was 2 days ago. What activities? Identified by whom? The Department of Reclamation? The Department of Agriculture? Senator GRAMM? Senator HARKIN? What activities that were identified by July 18? And where is the record of July 18 of these activities that were identified to spend $70 million on? 
   What is going on? We are going to spend $70 million for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations,'' for ``activities identified by July 18, 2000'? Is there any Member of this body, including the sponsor of the bill, who knows what activities have been identified? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-29-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be happy to hear the answer. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-30-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Mississippi. That is very illuminating. I guess my next question to the distinguished manager is, we already have $1.1 billion worth of spending designated ``emergency'' in the bill. What occurred in the intervening time that necessitated an additional nearly billion dollars and next week will there be another billion dollars? I believe only a week has elapsed since the bill was brought to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-31-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for that information. 
   The Senator from Mississippi has added a great deal to the store of knowledge of this body. I think it is very helpful. I still don't quite understand why at the end of an appropriations bill there should be, en bloc, 15 or whatever it is amendments worth over $900 million, which we didn't even get a copy of until we demanded it at the time, after the amendments were proposed. I don't think that is the way we should do business around here, particularly when we are talking about hundreds and millions and billions of dollars. I think it would have been appropriate--although I won't continue with the floor--as to what happened to the $8 billion or so that we already spent. What about those emergencies and what happened to that money? 
   I thank the Senator from Mississippi for his information and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, can the Senator estimate how much total spending is in those amendments? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the agricultural appropriations bill is very important bill--it provides federal assistance to our nation's farming communities, funds social service programs for women and children, and addresses natural resource management needs across the country. 
   I commend Chairman COCHRAN and other members of the Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee for their hard work to complete this year's bill. So, it is with regret that I had to vote against passage of this bill. 
   Mr. President, approval of the annual budget is among our most serious responsibilities. We are the trustees of billions of taxpayer dollars, and we should evaluate every spending decision with great deliberation and without prejudice. 
   Unfortunately, each year, we find new ways to violate budget policy. Appropriators have employed every sidestepping method in the book to circumvent Senate rules and common budget principles that are supposed to strictly guide the appropriations process. The excessive fodder and trickery have never been greater, resulting in the shameless waste of millions of taxpayer dollars. Included in this bill is more than $243 million in pork-barrel spending and additional ``emergency spending'' at the cost of $2 billion. 
   Traditional earmarks run rampant in this bill and its accompanying report for unrequested and low-priority spending. Other sly methods are also utilized to secure funding for parochial projects. If a direct amount is not earmarked, then the committee has covertly directed the USDA to grant special consideration to certain projects that would otherwise be subject to a competitive grant review. Appropriations bills are also popular targets to attach policy riders which clearly have no place in budget bills. 
   Another $2 billion in designated ``emergency'' spending was also added to this bill for various crop and disaster related assistance. This ``emergency'' spending is in addition to billions already spent in the past few years for farm relief spending, as well as other supplemental appropriations included in the military conference report for fiscal year 2000, and several billion more included in the recently passed crop insurance reform bill. 
   I rise today to tell my colleagues that I object. 
   I object to the $243 million in directed earmarks for special interest projects in this bill. I object to sidestepping the legislative process by attaching erroneous riders to an appropriations bill. I object to speeding through appropriations bills without adequate review by all members. I object to budget gimmickry practiced by attaching non-germane and non-priority items to appropriations bills and designating them as ``emergencies'' to avoid exceeding budget allocations. 
   It is no surprise that many of these earmarks are included for political glamour rather than 
   practical purposes. Members can go back to their districts to ride in public parades and garner votes at the expense of average citizens who are struggling to maintain minimum wage jobs. 
   Again, some of these items are not particularly objectionable on an individual basis. However, I am merely objecting to the way these projects have been selectively identified and prioritized for earmarks when so many other needs around our country go unaddressed. Other items clearly do not belong in this particular bill and, therefore, could be subject to budget points-of-order. 
   Numerous earmarks are included that are of questionable relation or priority to the purposes of this bill. A few examples are: 
   $20 million for construction of a Los Angeles replacement laboratory and office space project in California; 
   $3.5 million for the Delta Teachers Academy; 
   $5 million for demonstration housing grants for agriculture, aquaculture, and seafood processing works in Mississippi and Alaska; 
   $500,000 for cooperative efforts with the Claude E. Phillips Herbarium in Delaware; 
   $87,000 for North American Studies in Texas; 
   $436,000 for a clean air PM-10 study in Washington; 
   $2,150,000 for a rural health program in Mississippi to train health care workers to serve in rural areas; and, 
   An additional $520,000 for seven additional inspectors at the U.S.-Mexico Border at the San Diego ports of entry. 
   Again, Mr. President, these projects may be meritorious and helpful to the designated communities, but they do not appear appropriate to tag onto this year's agriculture spending bill. This appropriations measure is intended to address farmers, women, children and rural communities with the greatest need. Yet, by diverting millions to non-agricultural needs, we fail in this responsibility, forcing Congress to pass ad-hoc emergency spending bills with billions in farm relief and bail-outs for producers who cannot pay back their federal loans. 
   I hope my colleagues will agree that we have higher spending priorities that are directly related to the purposes of this agriculture bill. Had we more responsibility allocated funding in these appropriations bills, we certainly could have avoided this type of egregious pork-barrel and emergency ad hoc spending which cuts deep into the budget surplus. 
   Mr. President, I have compiled a list of objectionable provisions in this bill and its accompanying report. However, the list is too lengthy to include in the RECORD, but will be available from my Senate office. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably a nomination list which was printed in the RECORD of the date indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that this nomination lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000719</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have come today to express sorrow and deep regret over the loss of a treasured friend and colleague. I have watched many of the tributes that have been made to PAUL COVERDELL this morning. There is very little I can say to add to some of the wonderful comments that have been made about this truly remarkable American. 
   I want to talk for a minute about my personal relationship with PAUL COVERDELL. 
   When he was running for the Senate for the first time, he was running against an incumbent Senator who was popular in his State. I came to the State of Georgia and campaigned for him. Before I arrived, I thought I was doing what a lot of us in politics do, and that is doing what is necessary for a losing cause. But after spending a few days with PAUL COVERDELL, I could see this man was going to win his election because he was a man of integrity; he was a man who knew the issues, a man who was dedicated to the concept and belief of public service, a man who had served his country in other capacities and had prepared himself over many years of public life to serve the Nation as a Senator from the State of Georgia. 
   As we all know, he won a very close race, perhaps one of the closest races in the history of certainly the State of Georgia, if not the entire Senate, which required a runoff election. Then he was reelected rather handily. 
   Again I went down to Georgia to help him in his reelection, and I saw that during his first term, PAUL COVERDELL had established a unique relationship with his constituents. Everyplace I went with him, they recognized him, they showed their appreciation for him, and whether they were Republican or Democrat, they respected him for his strongly held values and views. 
   As I talked to his citizenry around the State of Georgia, it was clear, whether they were going to support his candidacy for reelection or not, they held him in the highest regard because they knew, as we who have had the privilege and honor of working with him and serving with him in the Senate know, that he was a man who worked incredibly hard, a man of firmly established values and ideals, and one who believed and acted in the public interest. 
   As all of us experience deep emotion and sorrow over the loss of a dear friend, I am sometimes reminded that we should also celebrate the fact that we were blessed to have the opportunity to know and appreciate a man of such enormous and wonderful qualities, and the people of his State and the people of this Nation, including my own State of Arizona, were honored to be in the presence of and have the service of this dedicated, wonderful American. 
   As our best wishes and condolences go out to the Coverdell family and friends, we also offer our hardiest celebration for a life well lived and one which is written in the pages of America's history, in the history of the Senate, bright pages filled with the Coverdell name in the State of Georgia with glory. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000718</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, each year I carefully review the annual Interior appropriations bill to analyze how the Federal Government is meeting its fiscal obligations and priorities to protect our nation's resources and provide needed funding for Native American programs. I commend the Interior subcommittee chairman, Senator GORTON, and the ranking member, Senator BYRD, for their hard work in completing this year's funding recommendations that will provide critical funding for National Parks, energy programs, the Indian Health Service, and the other resource management responsibilities within the Department of Interior. 
   Unfortunately, the appropriations committee has also continued the irresponsible practice of loading up an important bill such as this one with unrequested, low-priority earmarks and legislative riders. This Interior appropriations bill has once again become the target for members to tack on parochial spending for their own special interest projects. In this bill, I found nearly $280 million for porkbarrel spending projects, a level that is unacceptably higher than previous years. 
   This type of unnecessary and low-priority spending is particularly egregious since each agency within the Department of Interior is struggling to meet its statutory responsibilities to protect our nation's parks, wildlife refuges and trust obligations to Native Americans. These agencies all report exceptionally large, multimillion backlogs for maintenance and repairs. Yet, instead of directing funding to substantially eradicate these backlogs, the appropriations committee instead chooses to divert federal spending toward locale-specific earmarks that either were not included in the budget request, increase funding above the requested level for other specific projects, or fund unauthorized projects. 
   I recognize that various communities around the country look to the federal government to help protect them against wildfire threats or set aside funding to preserve open space to build parks for their children. Many of the projects in this bill will no doubt address some of these important needs and are deserving of federal investments. However, I fail to understand why it is necessary to load up this bill with erroneous earmarks that appear to pander more to special interests rather than address our highest resource management needs. I believe that we should abide by our established budget procedures by allocating federal assistance to those projects that undergo a normal, merit-based prioritization process that protects the interests of the American taxpayer, and employs the most cost-effective approach. 
   While individually, the amounts earmarked for these projects may not seem substantial, collectively they add up to unmitigated pork. Where does some of this pork go? 
   An increase of $600,000 is included for the Alaska Sealife Center for an eider recovery research program, a center which already received supplemental funding in the recently passed Military Construction conference agreement. Other locale-specific earmarks include $200,000 for a direct pass-through grant to Long Live the Lings to coordinate the various hatchery managers and governmental jurisdictions in Washington state; $500,000 to continue with the retrofit of the research vessel (the R/V) Sturgeon) for use by the Great Lakes Science Center; $5,000,000 for maintenance 
   and snow removal on the Beartooth Highway; and, an increase of $500,000 above the requested level for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) to begin construction of a base facility at Hilo, Hawaii in conjunction with the SAO Submillimeter Array initiative. 
   These projects may be important to the local communities for which they are targeted, but are they really the highest national priorities? Are these projects fundamental to carrying out the resource management functions of the Interior Department? Unfortunately, it matters little since I, nor the majority of my colleagues, had any input about whether funding these projects is the wisest and best use of Federal dollars. 
   We further abandon our budget principles by funding projects that have not been authorized by Congress. For example, the proposed Wheeling National Heritage Area in West Virginia has been the recipient of an annual earmark for the past several years, including a recommendation for a $500,000 earmark in this bill. While this does not appear to be problematic, what is not well known is that this particular heritage area has not yet been authorized by Congress. This flies directly in the face of the statement by the Interior appropriations committee which specifically pointed out that it would not fund projects unless Congress authorized them. Again, this project itself is not necessarily objectionable to me and may have good reason to be funded. But what is appalling is that these funds are specifically earmarked for a project not yet authorized, thereby clearly sidestepping a process that other heritage area projects are expected to adhere to in order to receive federal assistance. 
   It is also alarming to find, buried in this bill, a specific earmark of two million dollars to the Sealaska Corporation to develop an ethanol manufacturing facility in Alaska, the purpose of which is intended to support a declining timber industry in the Alaska region. To further assist these impacted communities in Alaska, an additional five million earmark is provided for a three year timber supply for the Tongass National Forest, language added securing preferential treatment of Alaska's surplus red cedar for sales abroad, and hundreds of thousands more are directed to other forest management activities to benefit the Alaskan region. 
   I admit that I am not an authority on the matters affecting local communities in Alaska. However, what I take particular exception to is the fact that this earmark benefits the ethanol industry, a fiscal boondoggle industry that already reaps substantial benefits from existing federal subsidies at the expense of taxpayers. It is a blatant insult to taxpayers to ask them to supplement the ethanol industry even more by spending two million to build one ethanol manufacturing facility for a region that is receiving more than adequate fiscal attention. 
   With the many identified priorities stated by the subcommittee members, such as addressing wildfire emergencies and health care for Native Americans, little to no information is provided as to why certain organizations are deserve of direct earmarks, such as $176,000 for the Kawerak Reindeer Herders Association, and one million for the National Conservation Training Center. With no information to explain the national importance of these programs, I find it troubling that the subcommittee tends to specifically favor certain organizations for funding when these organizations should also be subjected to a competitive and merit-review process. 
   As I stated before, there is undoubtably considerable merit to some of the programs for which funding is earmarked in this bill. However, until Congress ends the typical arbitrary spending which violates the integrity of the federal budget process, I have no choice but to highlight the practice of adding and earmarking funds for programs and activities that appear to serve narrowly tailored interests at the expense of the national interest. 
   Even in this time of an unprecedented budget surplus, we have a responsibility to the American public to exercise fiscal responsibility and discretion rather than allowing this type of unchecked spending to continue. It is shameful the way we are squandering the public's trust and money, and it will be the burden of the taxpayers to shell out the $280 million for needless and wasteful spending included in this bill. 
   The list of objectionable provisions in this bill that I compiled is more than 19 pages long and is unfortunately too lengthy to print in the RECORD.  However, the list is available from my Senate office. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of S. 2549, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2001. Included in the bill that passed today are several amendments that will significantly improve the lives of active duty members, reservists, military retirees, veterans, and their families. 
   These amendments greatly improved the version of the bill that came out of the Armed Services Committee. I had voted against reporting the bill out of the Committee because it did not include important measures for military personnel and neglected the issue of defense reform. 
   The critical amendments that were included in the legislation that passed today will: remove servicemembers from food stamps; increase pay for mid-grade Petty Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers; assist disabled veterans in claims processing; restore retirement pay for disabled military retirees; provide survivor benefit plan enhancements; authorize a low-cost life insurance plan for spouses and their children; enhance benefits and retirement pay for Reservists and National Guardsmen; authorize back-pay for certain WWII Navy and Marine Corps Prisoners of War; and provide for significant acquisition reform by eliminating domestic source restrictions on the procurement of shipyard cranes. 
   One of the areas of greatest concern among military retirees and their families is the ``broken promise'' of lifetime medical care, especially for those over age 65. While the Committee had included some key health care provisions, it failed to meet the most important requirement, the restoration of this broken promise. 
   With severe recruitment and retention problems still looming, we must better compensate our mid-grade enlisted servicemembers who are critical to leading the junior enlisted force. We have significantly underpaid enlisted servicemembers since the beginning of the All-Volunteer Force. The value of the mid-grade NCO pay, compared to that of the most junior enlisted, has dropped 50% since the All-Volunteer Force was enacted by Congress in 1973. This pay provision for the mid-grade enlisted ranks, up to $700 per year, plus the food stamp pay provision of an additional $180 per month for junior enlisted servicemembers, provides a significant increase in pay for enlisted servicemembers. 
   The National Guard and Reserves have become a larger percentage of the Total Force and are essential partners in a wide range of military operations. Due to the higher deployment rates of the active duty forces, the Reserve Components are being called upon more frequently and for longer periods of time than ever before. We must stop treating them like a ``second-class'' force. 
   I would like to emphasize the importance of enacting meaningful improvements for our servicemembers, their families and their survivors. They risk their lives to protect our freedom and preserve democracy. We should compensate them adequately, improve the benefits to their families and survivors, and enhance the quality of life for the Reserves and National Guard in a similar manner as the active forces. 
   Each year the number of disabled veterans appealing their health care cases continues to increase. It is Congress' duty to ensure that the disability claims process is less complex, less burdensome, and more efficient. Likewise, we should restore retirement pay for disabled military retirees. 
   I would also like to point out that this year's defense authorization bill contained over $1.9 billion in pork-- unrequested add-ons to the defense  budget that robs our military of vital funding on priority issues. While this year's total is less than previous years' it is still $1.9 billion too much. We need to, and can do better. I ask that the detailed list of pork on this bill be included in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD following my remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the importance of enacting meaningful improvements for active duty and Reserve members. They risked their lives to defend our shores and preserve democracy and we can not thank them enough for their service. But we can pay them more, improve the benefits for their families, and support the Reserve Components in a similar manner as the active forces. 
   We must ensure that the critical amendments that I have outlined survive the Conference process and are enacted into law. Our servicemembers past, present, and future need these improvements, and the bill that we passed today is just one step on the road to reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of S. 2549, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2001. Included in the bill that passed today are several amendments that will significantly improve the lives of active duty members, reservists, military retirees, veterans, and their families. 
   These amendments greatly improved the version of the bill that came out of the Armed Services Committee. I had voted against reporting the bill out of the Committee because it did not include important measures for military personnel and neglected the issue of defense reform. 
   The critical amendments that were included in the legislation that passed today will: remove servicemembers from food stamps; increase pay for mid-grade Petty Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers; assist disabled veterans in claims processing; restore retirement pay for disabled military retirees; provide survivor benefit plan enhancements; authorize a low-cost life insurance plan for spouses and their children; enhance benefits and retirement pay for Reservists and National Guardsmen; authorize back-pay for certain WWII Navy and Marine Corps Prisoners of War; and provide for significant acquisition reform by eliminating domestic source restrictions on the procurement of shipyard cranes. 
   One of the areas of greatest concern among military retirees and their families is the ``broken promise'' of lifetime medical care, especially for those over-age 65. While the Committee had included some key health care provisions, it failed to meet the most important requirement, the restoration of this broken promise. 
   With severe recruitment and retention problems still looming, we must better compensate our mid-grade enlisted servicemembers who are critical to leading the junior enlisted force. We have significantly underpaid enlisted  servicemembers since the beginning of the All-Volunteer Force. The value of the mid-grade NCO pay, compared to that of the most junior enlisted, has dropped 50 percent since the All-Volunteer Force was enacted by Congress in 1973. This pay provision for the mid-grade enlisted ranks, up to $700 per year, plus the food stamp pay provision of an additional $180 per month for junior enlisted servicemembers, provides a significant increase in pay for enlisted servicemembers. 
   The National Guard and Reserves have become a larger percentage of the Total Force and are essential partners in a wide range of military operations. Due to the higher deployment rates of the active duty forces, the Reserve Components are being called upon more frequently and for longer periods of time than ever before. We must stop treating them like a ``second-class'' force. 
   I would like to emphasize the importance of enacting meaningful improvements for our servicemembers, their families and their survivors. They risk their lives to protect our freedom and preserve democracy. We should compensate them adequately, improve the benefits to their families and survivors, and enhance the quality of life for the Reserves and National Guard in a similar manner as the active forces. 
   Each year the number of disabled veterans appealing their health care cases continues to increase. It is Congress' duty to ensure that the disability claims process is less complex, less burdensome, and more efficient. Likewise, we should restore retirement pay for disabled military retirees. 
   I would also like to point out that this year's defense authorization bill contained over $1.9 Billion in pork-- unrequested add-ons to the defense budget that robs our military of vital funding on priority issues. While this year's total is less than previous years' it is still $1.9 Billion too much. We need to, and can do better. I ask that the detailed list of Pork on this bill be included in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD following my remarks. 
   In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the importance of enacting meaningful improvements for active duty and Reserve members. They risked their lives to defend our shores and preserve democracy and we can not thank them enough for their service. But we can pay them more, improve the benefits for their families, and support the Reserve Components in a similar manner as the active forces. 
   We must ensure that the critical amendments that I have outlined survive the Conference process and are enacted into law. Our servicemembers past, present, and future need these improvements, and the bill that we passed today is just one step on the road to reform. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000711</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to address the Senate once again on the subject of military construction projects added to an appropriations bill that were not requested by the Department of Defense. The bill that passed by voice vote prior to the July 4th recess contains more than $1.5 billion in unrequested military construction projects. More importantly, I would like to spend a few minutes discussing Congress's role in the budget process and its utter lack of fiscal discipline. There is $4.5 billion in pork-barrel spending in this bill, $3.3 billion of that total in the so-called ``emergency supplemental.'' 
   Webster's, Mr. President, defines ``emergency'' as ``a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.'' What we have here is the antithesis of that concept. It is highly questionable whether $20 million for abstinence education should be included in a bill the purpose of which is to provide emergency funding that will not count against budget caps. 
   For months this body made a deliberate decision not to act quickly and deliberately with regard to legitimate spending issues involving military readiness and the crisis in Colombia. The decision was made not to treat these essential and time-sensitive activities as expeditiously as possible. Now, after many months and seemingly endless legislative maneuvering, we were presented with an $11 billion bill replete with earmarks that under no credible criteria should be categorized as ``emergency''--and this is in addition to the over $1.5 billion added to the underlying military construction appropriations bill for strictly parochial reasons. 
   As everyone here is aware, I regularly review spending bills for items that were not requested by the Administration, constitute earmarks designed to benefit specific projects or localities, and did not go through a competitive, merit-based selection process. I submit lists of such items to the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, generally prior to final passage of the spending bill in question. In the case of the Military Construction bill for fiscal year 2001, I submitted such a list, along with a statement critical of the process by which that bill was put together, particularly the over $700 million worth of military construction projects added to that bill that were not requested by the Department of Defense--an amount, I reiterate, that was doubled in conference with the other Body. 
   This is an institution that has proven itself incapable of passing legislation on an expedited basis that genuinely warrants the categorization of ``emergency.'' Funding for ongoing military operations that strains readiness accounts is a case in point. The one thing, Mr. President, we can pass without hesitation and consideration is money for pork-barrel projects. Just prior to final passage back in May of the Military Construction appropriations bill, the Appropriations Committee pushed through $460 million for six new C-130J aircraft for the Coast Guard--the very aircraft that we throw money at with wanton abandon as though our very existence as an institution is dependent upon the continued acquisition of that aircraft. 
   That funding and those aircraft are in the bill that emerged from conference with the House. A consensus exists, apparently, that we must have six more C-130Js in addition to the ones added to the defense appropriations bill despite a surplus in the Department of Defense of C-130 airframes that should see us through to the next millennium and beyond. And this, Mr. President, despite the General Accounting Office's finding, based upon the Coast Guard's own study, that the service's existing fleet of HC-130s will not need to be replaced until 2012-2027. And this, Mr. President, despite an ongoing Coast Guard-directed study designed to determine precisely what types and numbers of aircraft and surface vessels it will require in the future. Message to parents saving up for little junior's college education: invest in the stock of the company that makes C-130s; the United States Congress will ensure your offsprinq never need student loans. 
   Compared to the $460 million for the C-130s, it hardly seems worth it to mention the $45 million added to this emergency spending measure for yet another Gulfstream jet, other than to point out that it is manufactured in the same state as the C-130s. The decision to include funding for this jet, intended for the Coast Guard commandant, an emergency spending bill lends further credence to the notion that our interest in the integrity of the budget process is nonexistent. 
   It was reassuring that a compromise was reached on the issue of helicopters for Colombia. It is extremely unfortunate, however, that an issue of life and death for Colombian soldiers being sent into combat to fight well-armed drug traffickers and the 15,000-strong guerrilla army that protects them was predicated upon parochial considerations. Valid operational reasons existed for the decision by the Department of Defense and the Colombian Government to request Blackhawk helicopters, and the Senate's decision to substitute those Blackhawks for Huey IIs was among the more morally questionable actions I have witnessed within the narrow realm of budgetary decision-making by Congress. 
   Specific to the Military Construction Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2001, it continues to strain credibility to peruse this legislation and believe that considerations other than pork were at play. How else to explain the millions of dollars added to this bill for National Guard Armories, which, in a typically Orwellian gesture, are now referred to as ``Readiness 
   Centers?'' Whether the $6.4 million added for a new dining facility at Sheppard Air Force Base: the $12 million for a new fitness center at Langley Air Force Base; the $5.8 million for a joint personnel training center at Fairchild Air Force Base, Alaska; the $3.5 million added for an indoor rifle range and $1.8 million for a religious ministry facility at the Naval Reserve Station in Fort Worth, Texas; the $4 million added for the New Hampshire Air National Guard Pease International Trade Port; the $4 million for a Kentucky National Guard parking structure; and the $14 million added for New York National Guard facilities all constitute vital spending initiatives is highly questionable. 
   There are one-and-a-half billion dollars worth of projects added to this bill at member request. Not all of them, in particular family housing projects, warrant criticism or skepticism. There are important quality of life issues involved here. The public should be under no illusions, however, that over a billion dollars was added to this bill solely as a manifestation of Congress' unrestrained pursuit of pork. 
   As mentioned, far more disturbing than the pork added to the military construction bill is the damage done to the integrity of the budget process by the abuse of the concept of emergency spending. Permit me to quote from the opening sentence from the Washington Post of June 29 with regard to this bill: ``Republicans are trying to grease the skids for passage of a large emergency spending bill for Colombia and Kosovo with $200 million of `special projects' for members, and one of the biggest winners is a renegade Democrat being courted by the GOP.''  
   That, Mr. President, summarizes the process pretty well. Military readiness and the situation in Colombia are not in and of themselves important enough to warrant support for this spending bill. It seems this Senate must have its pork. It must have its $25 million for a Customs Service training facility at Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, a site most certainly chosen for its bucolic charm and operational attributes rather than for parochial reasons. It must have its $225,000 for the Nebraska State Patrol Digital Distance Learning project. It must have over $3 million earmarked for anti-doping activities at the 2002 Olympics, in addition to the $8 million for Defense Department support of these essential national security activities on the ski slopes of Utah. It must have $300,000 for Indian tribes in North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana and Minnesota. The hard-working taxpayers of America deserve better. 
   Those of us who had the misfortune of witnessing one of the most disgraceful and blatant explosions of pork-barrel spending in the annals of modern American parliamentary history, the ISTEA bill of 1998, should be astounded to see the projects funded in this emergency spending bill: 
   $1.2 million for the Paso Del Norte International Bridge in Texas; 
   $9 million for the US 82 Mississippi River Bridge in Mississippi; 
   $2 million for the Union Village/Cambridge Junction bridges in Vermont; 
   $5 million for the Naheola Bridge in Alabama; 
   $3 million for the Hoover Dam Bypass in Arizona and Nevada; 
   $3 million for the Witt-Penn Bridge in New Jersey; and 
   $12 million for the Florida Memorial Bridge in Florida. 
   These, Mr. President, are but the tip of the iceberg--an iceberg that shall not stand in the way of the icebreaker added to this bill, albeit for more credible reasons than the vast majority of member add-ons. 
   As I stated earlier, tracking the process by which the bill came before us was a truly Byzantine experience. The addition of $600,000 for the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System in South Dakota serves as sort of a tribute to the unusual path down which this legislation has traveled. The most skilled legislative adventurers would be hard pressed to follow the trail this bill followed before arriving at its destination here on the floor of the Senate. 
   I cannot emphasize enough the significance of piling billions of dollars in pork and unrequested earmarks into a bill that was categorized for budgetary purposes as ``emergency.'' Consider the distinction between emergency spending essential for the preservation of liberty and to deal with genuine emergencies that cannot wait for the usual annual appropriations process, and the manner in which Congress abuses that concept and undermines the integrity of the budgeting process. When I review an emergency spending measure and read earmarks like $2.2 million for the Anchorage, Alaska Senior Center; $500,000 for the Shedd Aquarium/Brookfield Zoo for science education programs for local school students; $1 million for the Center for Research on Aging at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago; and $8 million for the City of Libby in Montana, plus another $3.5 million for the Saint John's Lutheran Hospital in Libby, I am more than a little perplexed about the propriety of our actions here. 
   Is the American public expected to believe that a spending bill essential for national security should include emergency funding for Dungeness fishing vessel crew members, U.S. fish processors in Alaska, and the Buy N Pack Seafoods processor in Hoonah, Alaska, research and education relating to the North Pacific marine ecosystem, and the lease, operation and upgrading of facilities at the Alaska SeaLife Center, and the $7 million for observer coverage for the Hawaiian long-line fishery and to study interaction with sea turtles in the North Pacific. Finally, and not to belabor the point, is the $1 million for the State of Alaska to develop a cooperative research plan to restore the crab fishery truly a national security imperative? 
   When the bill was on the floor of the Senate, my friend and colleague from Texas, Senator GRAMM, referred to the sadly typical smoke and mirrors budgeting gimmickrey pervasive in the legislation. I am always disturbed when such budgeting gimmicks designed to prevent Congress from complying with the revenue and spending levels agreed to in the Budget Resolution are employed. While I am grateful that a deal was struck by which they will be reversed in another bill, the use of such gimmicks is a betrayal of our responsibility to spend the taxpayers' dollars responsibly and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans. It is a betrayal of the public trust that is essential to a working democracy. 
   The bill, as currently written and signed into law, waives the budget caps to allow for more discretionary spending. It also waived the firewall in the budget resolution between defense and nondefense spending on outlays. The end result would be that Congress would have the freedom to move the $2.6 billion the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee did not spend on much-needed readiness into non-defense spending. 
   The recently-passed legislation further changes current law and shifts the payment date for SSI, the Supplemental Security Income program, from October back to September. What that would do is shift money into fiscal year 2000. In the process, it would allow $2.4 billion more be spent in fiscal year 2001 by spending that same amount of money in the previous year. The legislation also includes the gimmick of moving the pay date for veterans' compensation and pensions from fiscal year 2001 to fiscal year 2000. Both of these provisions are further examples of the irresponsible budget gimmickry that allows the Congress to spend more without any accountability. I am thankful that a commitment was made to reverse these decisions in subsequent legislation; I abhor the fact that they will almost certainly be used again in the future. 
   To conclude, the Military Construction and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill passed prior to recess, and without members of the Senate having a realistic opportunity to review that multibillion dollar commitment, is a travesty, a thorough slap in the face of all Americans concerned about fiscal responsibility, national security, the scourge of drugs on our streets, and the integrity of the representation they send to Congress. We should be ashamed of ourselves for passing this bill. Unfortunately, shame continues to elude us, and the country, and our democracy, is poorer for that flaw in our collective character. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded so that I may speak as in morning business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask the majority leader to yield to me for a comment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Yes, I do. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I say to the majority leader, we are now doing what we usually do when a pork barrel bill is before us; that is, that national defense and national security are at risk; we will have to withdraw from Kosovo; it will be the end of Western civilization as we know it. We already have something from the Pentagon that says we will have to shut down unit training during the month of September, blah, blah, blah. 
   So even though in this bill we have, for example, under Kosovo and other national security, Olympic Games support; and even though in the name of ``emergency'' we have a Coast Guard acquisition of a $45 million Gulfstream for the Commandant of the Coast Guard--and I would be glad to pay for his first-class airfare while he awaits that emergency, to help him ride out the emergency situation, even though we have $10 million for the Bering Sea crab disaster, $10 million for a Northeast fishery, $7 million for a Hawaii fishery, and $5 million for an Alaska Sea Life Center. We have covered a good part of those for senior members of the Appropriations Committee who have a coastline. 
   These are all done in the name of an emergency. I will ask unanimous consent that we take up and pass without objection all of those, including this ``dire emergency'' concerning the Olympic Games support and what is contained in the Kosovo and other national security portions of this bill--I would agree to a unanimous consent agreement that it be taken up and passed, and that the rest of this bill, which is incredibly full of unnecessary, unwanted, unauthorized, unmitigated pork be debated. 
   There are 47 points of order that can be lodged under this appropriations bill. What do we want to do? We want to take a $19 billion appropriations bill and pass it by voice vote just because we want to go home for the Fourth of July. 
   I ask unanimous consent that we take the fiscal year 2000 appropriations title I on Kosovo and other national security defense and pass it, and that we take up the rest of this bill for debate on points of order when we return after the recess. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. At the appropriate parliamentary point, I will propound that request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I reserve the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Alaska. 
   I obviously am disturbed about much that was put into this legislation. But I see a $6 billion savings here. So I think it is a reasonable compromise. I intend to put in the RECORD as well as on my web site and many other places some of the really egregious projects that are in this bill. At the same time, this significant savings I think is a very important move. 
   I will not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to address the Senate once again on the subject of military construction projects added to an appropriations bill that were not requested by the Department of Defense. This bill contains more than $1.5 billion in unrequested military construction projects. More importantly, I would like to spend a few minutes discussing the thorough perversion of the budget process by Congress in its relentless pursuit of the other white meat. There is $4.5 billion in pork-barrel spending in this bill, $3.3 billion of that total in the so-called ``emergency supplemental.'' 
   Webster's, Mr. President, defines ``emergency'' as ``a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.'' What we have here is the antithesis of that concept. It is ironic that the emergency spending bill before us today includes $20 million for abstinence education, because the taxpayers are really getting screwed. For months the leadership of this body made a deliberate decision not to act quickly and deliberately with regard to legitimate spending issues involving military readiness and the crisis in Colombia. The decision was made not to treat these essential and time-sensitive activities as expeditiously as possible. Now, after many months and a legislative trail more complicated and illogical than any Rube Goldberg contraption, we are presented with an $11 billion bill replete with earmarks that under no credible criteria should be categorized as ``emergency''--and this is in addition to the over $1.5 billion added to the underlying military construction appropriations bill for strictly parochial reasons. 
   Mr. President, as everyone here is aware, I regularly review spending bills for items that were not requested by the Administration, constitute earmarks designed to benefit specific projects or localities, and did not go through a competitive, merit-based selection process. I submit lists of such items to the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, generally prior to final passage of the spending bill in question. In the case of the Military Construction bill for fiscal year 2001, I submitted such a list, along with a statement critical of the process by which that bill was put together, particularly the over $700 million worth of military construction projects added to that bill that were not requested by the Department of Defense--an amount, I reiterate, that was doubled in conference with the rarely fiscally responsible other Body. 
   This is an institution that has proven itself incapable of passing legislation on an expedited basis that genuinely warrants the categorization of ``emergency.'' Funding for ongoing military operations that strains readiness accounts is a case in point. The one thing, Mr. President, we can pass without hesitation and consideration is money for pork-barrel projects. Just prior to final passage back in May of the Military Construction appropriations bill, the Appropriations Committee pushed through $460 million for six new C-130J aircraft for the Coast Guard--the very aircraft that we throw money at with wanton abandon as though our very existence as an institution is dependent upon the continued acquisition of that aircraft. 
   That funding and those aircraft are in the bill that emerged from conference with the House. A consensus exists, apparently, that we must have six more C-l3OJs in addition to the ones added to the defense appropriations bill despite a surplus in the Department of Defense of C-130 airframes that should see us through to the next millennium and beyond. Message to parents saving up for little junior's college education: invest in the stock of the company that makes C-130s; the United States Congress will ensure your offsprinq never need student loans. 
   Compared to the $460 million for the C-130s, it hardly seems worth it to mention the $25 million added to this emergency spending measure for yet another Gulfstream jet, other than to point out that it is manufactured in the same state as the C-130s. 
   It was reassuring that a compromise was reached on the issue of helicopters for Colombia. It is extremely unfortunate, however, that an issue of life and death for Colombian soldiers being sent into combat to fight well-armed drug traffickers and the 15,000-strong guerrilla army that protects them was predicated upon parochial considerations. Valid operational reasons existed for the decision by the Department of Defense and the Colombian Government to request Blackhawk helicopters, and the Senate's decision to substitute those Blackhawks for Huey IIs was among the more morally reprehensible actions I have witnessed within the narrow realm of budgetary decision-making by Congress. 
   Specific to the Military Construction Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2001, it continues to strain credibility to peruse this legislation and believe that considerations other than pork were at play. How else to explain the millions of dollars added to this bill for National Guard Armories, which, in a typically Orwellian gesture, are now referred to as ``Readiness Centers?'' Whether the $6.4 million added for a new dining facility at Sheppard Air Force Base: the $12 million for a new fitness center at Langley Air Force Base; the $5.8 million for a joint personnel training center at Fairchild Air Force Base, Alaska; the $3.5 million added for an indoor rifle range and $1.8 million for a religious ministry facility at the Naval Reserve Station in Fort Worth, Texas; the $4 million added for the New Hampshire Air National Guard Pease International Trade Port; the $4 million for a Kentucky National Guard parking structure; and the $14 million added for New York National Guard facilities all constitute vital spending initiatives is highly questionable. 
   Mr. President, there are one-and-a-half billion dollars worth of projects added to this bill at member request. Not all of them, in particular family housing projects warrant criticism or skepticism. There are important quality of life issues involved here. The public should be under no illusions, however, that over a billion dollars was added to this bill solely as a manifestation of Congress' naked pursuit of pork. 
   As mentioned, far more disturbing than the pork added to the military construction bill is the damage done to the integrity of the budget process by the abuse of the concept of emergency spending. Permit me to quote from the opening sentence from the Washington Post of June 29 with regard to this bill: ``Republicans are trying to grease the skids for passage of a large emergency spending bill for Colombia and Kosovo with $200 million of 'special projects' for members, and one of the biggest winners is a renegade Democrat being courted by the GOP.'' 
   That, Mr. President, summarizes the process pretty well. Military readiness and the situation in Colombia are not in and of themselves important enough to warrant support for this spending bill; we must have our pork. We must have our $25 million for a Customs Service training facility at Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, a site most certainly chosen for its bucolic charm and operational attributes rather than for parochial reasons. We must have our $225,000 for the Nebraska State Patrol Digital Distance Learning project. We must have over $3 million earmarked for anti-doping activities at the 2002 Olympics, in addition to the $8 million for Defense Department support of these essential national security activities on the ski slopes of Utah. We must have $300,000 for Indian tribes in North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana and Minnesota. 
   Those of us who had the misfortune of witnessing one of the most disgraceful and blatant explosions of pork-barrel spending in the annals of modern American parliamentary history, the ISTEA bill of 1998, should be astounded to see the projects funded in this emergency spending bill: 
   $1.2 million for the Paso Del Norte International Bridge in Texas; 
   $9 million for the US 82 Mississippi River Bridge in Mississippi; 
   $2 million for the Union Village/Cambridge Junction bridges in Vermont; 
   $5 million for the Naheola Bridge in Alabama; 
   $3 million for the Hoover Dam Bypass in Arizona and Nevada; 
   $3 million for the Witt-Penn Bridge in New Jersey; and 
   $12 million for the Florida Memorial Bridge in Florida. 
   These, Mr. President, are but a tip of the iceberg--an iceberg that shall not stand in the way of the icebreaker added to this bill, albeit for more credible reasons than the vast majority of member-adds. 
   As I stated earlier, tracking the process by which this bill comes before us today has been a truly Byzantine experience. The addition of $600,000 for the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System in South Dakota serves as sort of a tribute to the unusual path down which this legislation has traveled. The most skilled legislative adventurers would be hard pressed to follow the trail this bill followed before arriving at its destination here today. 
   I cannot emphasize the significance of piling billions of dollars in pork and unrequested earmarks into a bill that we have categorized for budgetary purposes as ``emergency.'' Consider the distinction between emergency spending essential for the preservation of liberty and to deal with genuine emergencies that cannot wait for the usual annual appropriations process, and the manner in which Congress abuses that concept and undermines the integrity of the budgeting process. When I review an emergency spending measure and read earmarks like $2.2 million for the Anchorage, Alaska Senior Center; $500,000 for the Shedd Aquarium/Brookfield Zoo for science education programs for local school students; $1 million for the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System in Long Island, New York; $1 million for the Center for Research on Aging at Rush-Presbyterian--St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago; and $8 million for the City of Libby in Montana, plus another $3.5 million for the Saint John's Lutheran Hospital in Libby, I am more than a little perplexed about the propriety of our actions here. 
   Is the American public expected to believe that what the chairman of the Appropriations Committee calls a ``must-pass bill'' essential for national security should include emergency funding for Dungeness fishing vessel crew members, U.S. fish processors in Alaska, and the Buy N Pack Seafoods--how do you, Mr. President, even write that bill language with a straight face--processor in Hoonah, Alaska, research and education relating to the North Pacific marine ecosystem, and the lease, operation and upgrading of facilities at the Alaska SeaLife Center, and the $7 million for observer coverage for the Hawaiian long-line fishery and to study interaction with sea turtles in the North Pacific. Finally, and not to belabor the point, is the $1 million for the State of Alaska to develop a cooperative research plan to restore the crab fishery truly a national security imperative? 
   My friend and colleague from Texas, Senator GRAMM, has referred to the sadly typical smoke and mirrors budgeting gimmickrey pervasive in this bill. I am disturbed by these budgeting gimmicks designed to prevent Congress from complying with the revenue and spending levels agreed to in the Budget Resolution. This bill is a betrayal of our responsibility to spend the taxpayers' dollars responsibly and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans. 
   For example, this bill waives the budget caps to allow for more discretionary spending. This bill also waived the firewall in the budget resolution between defense and nondefense spending on outlays. The end result is that this gives the Senate Appropriations Committee the freedom to move the $2.6 billion the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee did not spend on much-needed readiness into non-defense spending. 
   This bill further changes current law and shifts the payment date for SSI, the Supplemental Security Income program, from October back to September. What that does is shift money into fiscal year 2000. In the process, it allows $2.4 billion more be spent in fiscal year 2001 by spending that same amount of money in the previous year. This bill also uses the gimmick of moving the pay date for veterans' compensation and pensions from fiscal year 2001 to fiscal year 2000. Both of these provisions are further examples of the irresponsible budget gimmickry that allows the Congress to spend more without any accountability. 
   Mr. President, to conclude, this bill is a travesty, a thorough slap in the face of all Americans concerned about fiscal responsibility, national security, the scourge of drugs on our streets, and the integrity of the representation they send to Congress. We should be ashamed of ourselves for passing this bill--a bill that members of the Senate had no time to review despite misleading statements to the contrary voiced on the floor of the Senate. Unfortunately, shame continues to elude us, and the country is poorer for that flaw in our collective character. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield 2 minutes of my 5 minutes to the Senator from Wisconsin, Mr. FEINGOLD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to address an issue of importance with respect to the 527 disclosure debate, and that is the constitutionality of H.R. 4762. I assert that the 527 disclosure legislation is Constitutional. 
   Among other things, the legislation requires 527 organizations claiming tax exempt status to disclose their members who make significant contributions to support the 527's political advocacy. Some opponents maintain that the legislation runs afoul of the Supreme Court ruling in NAACP v. Alabama, where as most of you know, the NAACP was protected from having to disclose its membership list to the Alabama government 
   The 527 disclosure legislation complies with the Constitution's protection of freedom of association upheld in NAACP v. Alabama. It does not require the disclosure of membership rosters, per se, just the members who are making politically related donations. More important, it does not constitute a significant restraint on members' rights to associate freely. 
   It is important to note that the circumstances are different here than those that surrounded the Alabama government's treatment of the NAACP during the 1950's and 1960's. The Supreme Court recognized that the members of the NAACP had every right to be concerned for their own and their families' safety if their identities were  publicly disclosed. The prospect of public identification would have significantly discouraged people of color from joining the NAACP. While political contributors to 527 organizations may prefer to avoid public scrutiny, they have no need to fear for their lives as a result of that scrutiny. 
   That said, public safety is by no means the principal standard by which the 527 disclosure legislation will be judged. In the NAACP v. Alabama decision, the Supreme Court acknowledges that a valid governmental purpose must be weighed against the tendency for the disclosure requirement to abridge an individual's freedom of association. The decision emphasized that the governmental purpose for disclosure--in this case to prevent corruption of the American political system--must be achieved in the most narrow manner possible. 
   Like our Congressional leaders, I believe the more disclosure the better--as long as the associated requirements are constitutional. Focusing narrowly on 527 organizations is one thing that sets H.R. 4762 apart from the Smith-McConnell legislation, to ensure that the legislation survives a constitutional test. I would like to submit a copy of the Smith-McConnell legislation, the Tax-Exempt Political Disclosure Act, into the record. 
   The Smith-McConnell legislation sweeps in business and labor organizations. As I said, disclosing their political activities is a laudable goal. I have advocated a similar approach, but one that would include bright line tests to determine precisely when contributions and expenditures would have to be disclosed. Those bright line tests, such as limiting the disclosure requirement to a time period close to an election, are lacking in the Smith-McConnell bill. 
   Unlike business and labor organizations, which engage in activities completely unrelated to elections, 527's are clearly political organizations. 527 organizations by law must have the function of influencing or attempting to influence elections. The Supreme Court in the Buckley decision upheld federal disclosure laws for these types of organizations. When it comes to disclosure laws for business and labor organizations, concerns about vagueness and overbreadth come into play. 
   527 organizations proliferated during the primary campaign season. Many had obscure names that made it hard to guess even the types of members funding political advocacy on behalf of each 527, much less their identities. Contrary to the 527's, most labor and business organizations have established identities, and clear-cut positions and purposes that go beyond funding issue ads. Since we have no window into the world of 527's, a disclosure requirement is more valid when compared with a disclosure requirement affecting labor and business organizations. 
   Unlike most, if not all, labor and business organizations, there is no way to determine how many members there are in a 527. In the example I often cite, there were only two contributors, each funneling what appears to be at least one million dollars into the accounts to be used for campaign advocacy. While we may have no idea how many contributors there are in a 527, or how much each contributed, you can bet their favored candidates know. 
   In a press conference announcing introduction of his bill, Senator MCCONNELL admits the ``dubious constitutionally'' of his proposal. In order to regain the American public's trust, it is important that we support a proposal we feel confident will withstand the Court's scrutiny. Thank you, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, as sponsor, I would like to make the final comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today, indeed, marks a seminal day in the battle to reform our electoral system and restore the faith of the American citizenry that ours is a government of and for the people. This is a vote for campaign finance reform. If the Senate approves this legislation, it will be the first campaign finance reform bill to become law in 21 long years. It will be action that is long overdue. 
   Whether we want to admit the fact or not, perception has an unfortunate tendency to become reality. And the American people perceive the Congress as controlled by the monied special interests. If we are to ensure the public's faith in its Government, we must obliterate that perception. This bill, although admittedly a very small step, is a step towards ending that perception. This is a step we should be proud to take. 
   This bill will not solve what is wrong with our campaign finance system. It will not do away with the millions of soft money dollars that are polluting our elections. We must yet undertake the task of doing away with soft money and make our Government more accountable to the people we represent. 
   It will give the public information regarding one especially pernicious weapon that is being used in modern campaigns. It is an egregious and outrageous insult to the very principles of how democracies function. 
   The bill is fair. It affects both parties. It affects interests on both sides of the aisle. It stifles no speech. It curbs no individual's rights, and it is clearly constitutional. If the Senate approves it today, it will become law, and the American people will be well served. 
   Before I close, I again thank the many who were involved with this issue. Many in the House courageously fought to pass this legislation. I thank and note again Congressmen CHRIS SHAYS, MARTY MEEHAN, MIKE CASTLE, LINDSEY GRAHAM, and AMO HOUGHTON who all worked tirelessly on this legislation. If it were not for their courage and tenacity, we would not have this legislation before the Senate today. 
   In the Senate, a bipartisan coalition of those who believe in reform refused to relent on this matter: Senators SNOWE and LEVIN played key roles in  ensuring we move forward. Of course, I must pay special note of all the work done by Senators LIEBERMAN and FEINGOLD. I am proud not only to call them friends but partners in this crusade to return the Government to the people. I could be in no better company. 
   As I noted last night to all those who believe in reform, today is only the first step, but it is a great first step and it is, indeed, a great day for democracy and a Government that is accountable to the governed. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Mr. President, I yield my remaining time to the Senator from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from Connecticut be allowed to speak for 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today the Senate voted on yet another proposal for providing patient protections to Americans enrolled in HMOs. Unfortunately, this proposal did not provide the strong safeguards and protections that I believe each and every American deserves to have. 
   This amendment failed on the three key areas for meaningful patient protections--fair legal accountability for denied care, the right of every American to choose their doctor, and basic patient rights for every American not just a limited few. 
   Under this amendment only a limited number of Americans would be provided with basic patient protections including the right for a woman to go directly to an OB/GYN and a parent to take their child directly to receive care from a pediatrician. Every American should be protected from having their doctors being ``gagged'' by HMO and prevented from sharing all health care information with them. 
   Another disturbing provision contained in this proposal was the lack of legal redress available to an individual if they did not complete the internal review process. Under this proposal if a patient died during the internal review process--which could take up to 14 days--then their surviving family would have no legal recourse against the HMO that denied or caused harm to the deceased individual. This is simply wrong and indefensible. 
   While I was disappointed in this proposal there were a few provisions that were applaudable and made an important step towards providing stronger protections to patients. I appreciated the efforts that were made to make the external review process more fair, unbiased and accessible. In addition I applaud the attempts made to provide patients with the right to sue including a cap on non-economic damages and no punitive damages. Both of these are items that I have consistently fought for inclusion in a HMO reform bill. People must be provided the right to sue for damages once all means have been exhausted but it must be done in a manner that does not cause excessive lawsuits and cause health care costs to exorbitantly rise. 
   I am disappointed that this proposal did not go far enough but I am hopeful that a strong patient protection bill can still be passed prior to Congress adjourning in the fall. It is the least we can do for America's patients. 
   Congress still has an excellent opportunity to show the American people that it can and will rise above partisan politics and find the consensus that serves the national interest and puts the health care needs of patients first. This is too important an issue to allow the influence of special interests to prevent us from doing what is right for all Americans and I am confident that the leaders in both the House and Senate will continue working with the conferees to ensure that an agreement is reached. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000629</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation that authorizes the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior and the Governor of Arizona to carry out a federal-state land exchange in order to protect environmentally significant lands in the state and enhance the state education trust fund to benefit Arizona's schoolchildren.  
   I must first make mention that Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt and Governor Jane Hull of Arizona are currently involved in negotiating a comprehensive state-federal land exchange agreement. The Secretary and the Governor have been engaged in land exchange negotiations since January of this year, which so far have been very productive and positive. If their negotiations are successful and a land trade is agreed upon, legislation will be necessary to authorize that exchange. 
   To express my strong support for a potential exchange, I am introducing this bill as a place holder for the necessary authorization to implement any agreement for a land exchange. This legislation is in no way intended to override or influence ongoing negotiations, nor do I intend to force either party to accept a proposal that is not in their best interests. 
   The purpose of this legislation is two-fold. One, it is simply a framework for a future agreement. It is intended to facilitate discussion to define the necessary legislative authority to implement a state-federal land exchange in Arizona. If the details of a land exchange are agreed upon between the Secretary and the Governor, those specifics can be incorporated into this legislation. 
   The second purpose is to define the necessary legislative language that will accommodate existing Arizona Constitutional and Arizona Enabling Act restrictions that require state trust lands to be managed for the benefit of education and other public purposes. In addition, the bill recognizes the important goal of resolving the federal government's land ``debt'' to Arizona as a result of not receiving the state's full allotment at statehood. This legislation proposes to use federal friendly-condemnation authority to effect other aspects of a comprehensive exchange to address the current Arizona constitutional restriction on land trades. 
   In recent years, the people of Arizona have embraced the idea of promoting conservation as part of the state's land management objectives. Through public referenda and other proposals, the people of Arizona have strongly supported the concept of a state-wide effort to conserve unique natural areas. The federal-state land exchange currently under discussion could ensure that ecologically important state lands are placed under permanent conservation protection as part of an existing federal land management unit. In return, the state would receive parcels currently owned by the federal government that may be more suitable for revenue-generating activity in keeping with the requirements of state law. Such an exchange could accomplish both state conservation and education goals. The opportunity to explore and effect a means of serving these two important purposes should not be missed. 
   In the past, some of my colleagues and I have evaluated different options to reduce the number of state inholdings on federal property and vice-versa--a situation that complicates resource management and does not serve the public interest. This legislation could be an important step forward in reducing state inholdings in federal land management areas which makes good environmental, economic and administrative sense. 
   Mr. President, let me make very clear once again, this legislation is a starting point only. It does not represent by any means an endorsement of any particular lands for exchange that are currently under negotiation. Nor is it my intention to fast-track any proposal that does not abide by a fair and strict appraisal process. It is intended to encourage the Secretary and the Governor to forward a serious proposal to the Congress for consideration. Once a proposal is forwarded, I have every intention to consult with affected entities and engage in a thorough process of public input from local citizenry, governments and other interested parties. 
   I also recognize that such land exchanges do take time and it is very possible that a land exchange proposal may not be finalized this year. My colleagues from Arizona recall as well as I do that it took three years to negotiate and enact the Arizona Desert Wilderness Act of 1990 to preserve over two million acres as designated wilderness. We never would have accomplished that feat without the front-line leadership and vision of Mo Udall who initiated the process by offering a legislative framework. I believe that this opportunity is one that Mo would have supported. I hope that my colleagues and friends in Arizona will agree and that we can all work together on a comprehensive land exchange proposal that will accomplish educational and environmental objectives. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to include the full text of the bill in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Immediately following the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000628</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask for the regular order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment I have pending, following the disposition of the Smith amendment, requires that the schools and libraries that are taking advantage of universal service subsidies for Internet connection deploy blocking or filtering software to screen out obscene material and child pornography for children and child pornography on all computers. The decisions would be made by the local school boards and library boards. 
   The Senator from Vermont, Mr. LEAHY, has asked to speak on this issue and requests that we begin that sometime around noon. 
   So if it is agreeable to the Senator from Pennsylvania and the Senator from Iowa, perhaps we could have an hour equally divided between myself and Senator LEAHY. I think that would be--actually, we will ask Senator LEAHY's staff if that is agreeable to him and then ask for a UC on that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. That is fine. So I will not ask for a unanimous consent agreement on time, but the way I understand it, we now have a Smith amendment to be disposed of first. 
   I want to make it clear that I do not wish to impede the progress of this bill. I paid attention to the Senator from Pennsylvania, and I am very much in favor of a reasonable time agreement on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am glad to yield to the Senator from Nevada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I see my dear friend from South Carolina waiting to illuminate all of us, so I will yield the floor at this time and pursue debate on this amendment at such time as Senator LEAHY is available. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, what is the pending business before the Senate? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I have a parliamentary inquiry. Where is the McCain amendment in the order of succession? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, it is my understanding that I will speak on my amendment and the time of the vote will be decided by the managers of the bill. I will speak on my amendment at this time and then probably will not need additional time, depending on the desires of the managers of the bill. 
   The purpose of this amendment is to protect America's children from exposure to obscene material, child pornography, or other material deemed inappropriate for minors while accessing the Internet from a school or library receiving federal Universal Service assistance by requiring such schools and libraries to deploy blocking or filtering technology on computers used by minors, and to block general access to obscene material, and child pornography on all computers. The amendment further requires that schools and libraries block child pornography on all computers. 
   The last few years have seen a dramatic expansion in Internet connections. The Internet connects more than 29 million host computers in more than 250 countries. Currently, the Internet is growing at a rate of approximately 40 percent to 50 percent annually. Some estimates of the number of U.S. Internet users are as high as 62 million. 
   Section 254 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 added a new subsidy to the traditional Universal Service program, commonly referred to as the Schools and Libraries Discount, or e-rate. As implemented by the FCC, the e-rate is a $2.25 billion annual subsidy aimed at connecting schools and libraries to the Internet. This subsidy is funded through higher phone bills to customers. 
   There are approximately 86,000 public schools in the United States. In the first program year of the e-rate, 68,220 public schools participated in the program. That is approximately 68 percent of all public schools. Participation increased by 15 percent in the second year, from July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2000, with 78,722 public schools listed on funded applications. That is approximately 82 percent of all public schools. Simply put, the e-rate program helped connect one million classrooms to the Internet. Private school participation in the program has resulted in more than 80,000 additional American classrooms wired to the Internet. Statistics on libraries participating in the program mirror these dramatic numbers. 
   I lay out these statistics because they represent both the tremendous  promise and the exponential danger that wiring America's children to the Internet poses. Certainly, the Internet represents previously unimaginable education and information opportunities for our Nation's school children. However, there are also some very real risks. Pornography, including obscene material, child pornography, and indecent material is widely available on the Internet. This material may be accessed directly, or may turn up as the product of a general Internet search. Seemingly innocuous keyword searches like ``Barbie doll,'' ``playground,'' ``boy'' and ``girl'' can turn up some of the most offensive and shocking pornography imaginable. Though, due to the amorphous nature of the Internet, it is difficult to precisely establish the amount of pornography available on the Internet. According to US News & World Report, there are ``at least 40,000 sex-oriented sites on the Web.'' This number does not include Usenet newsgroups, and pornographic spam. 
   Many who oppose efforts to protect children from exposure to pornography over the Internet dismiss such efforts as moralizing, as if it isn't enough to argue for the protection of innocence. Mr. President, I am content to make my stand on the vital importance of sheltering the purity of our children's moral innocence. However, the need to protect our children exceeds the basic moral argument. Natural sexual development occurs gradually, throughout childhood. Exposure of children to 
   pornography distorts this natural development. As Dr. Mary Anne Layden, Director of Education at the University of Pennsylvania School of Cognitive Learning testified before the Commerce Committee, children's exposure to pornography accelerates and warps normal sexual development by shaping sexual perspective through exposure to sexual information and imagery. Dr. Layden stated: ``The result is a set of distorted beliefs about human sexuality. These shared distorted beliefs include: pathological behavior is normal, is common, hurts no one, and is socially acceptable, the female body is for male entertainment, sex is not about intimacy and sex is the basis of self-esteem.'' 
   Alarmingly, the threat to children posed by unrestricted Internet access is not limited to exposure to simple pornography. As we have seen through an increasing flurry of shocking media reports, the Internet has become the tool of choice for pedophiles who utilize the Internet to lure and seduce children into illegal and abusive sexual activity. Pedophiles are using this technology to trade in child pornography, and to lure and seduce our children. In many cases, such activity is the product of individuals, taking advantage of the anonymity provided by the Internet to stalk children through chat-rooms, and by e-mail. However, an increasingly disturbing trend is that of highly organized, and technologically sophisticated groups of pedophiles who utilize advanced technology to trade in child pornography, and to sexually exploit and abuse children. 
   In 1996, the country was shocked by a tragic story of the sexual exploitation of a young child in California. The San Francisco Chronicle reported an international ring of pedophiles operating through an on-line chat room known as the ``Orchid Club.'' Sadly, this case was an ominous precursor of underscoring both the technological sophistication of on-line predators, and the unique challenge of protecting children in an environment of a global communications medium. The Chronicle reported that: ``The case appears to be the first incident where pornography on the Internet has been linked to an incident of child molestation that was transmitted on-line ..... Prosecutors said members produced and traded child pornography involving victims as young as five years old, swapped stories of having sex with minors and in one instance chatted online while two suspects molested a 10-year-old girl.'' Sixteen men were indicted, including individuals from across the United States, Australia, Canada, and Finland. 
   In 1998, the U.S Customs Service, in coordination with law enforcement officials from 13 other countries, conducted a raid on the ``Wonderland Club.'' The price of membership in the Wonderland Club was high. In order to ``join'' the Wonderland Club of low-lifes, prospective members had to provide 10,000 images of child pornography, which were then digitally cross-referenced against the club's data base of more than 500,000 images of children to ensure their originality. According to Time Magazine:  
   The images depict everything from sexual abuse to actual rape of children--some as young as 18 months old. ``Some club members in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia ..... owned production facilities and transmitted live child-sex shows over the Web. Club members directed the sex acts by sending instruction to the producers via Wondernet chat rooms. ``They had standards,'' said a law enforcement official involved in the case. ``The only thing they banned was snuff pictures, the actual killing of somebody.''  
   As we wire America's children to the Internet, we are inviting these low lifes to prey upon our children in every classroom and library in America. 
   If this isn't enough, the Internet has now become the tool of choice for disseminating information and propaganda promoting racism, anti-Semitism, extremism, and how-to manuals on everything from 
   drugs to bombs. 
   Rapid Internet growth has provided an opportunity for those promoting hate to reach a much wider and broader audience. Children are uniquely susceptible to these messages of hate, and make no mistake about it, they are the targets of these messages. Through Internet access, our schools and libraries, places where we intend our children to develop their social skills, tolerance, where they should be learning to appreciate the wonder and beauty of diversity, instead they can be exposed to extremely hateful and dangerous information, and material they may otherwise go through their entire lives without being exposed to. According to the New York Times: ``They (hate groups) peddle hatred to children, with brightly colored Web pages featuring a coloring book of white supremacist symbols and a crossword puzzle full of racist clues.'' 
   Media propaganda has always been used as a means for spreading the toxic message of hate. Magazines, pamphlets, movies, music and other means have been their traditional tools for those seeking to feed the darker side of our human nature. However, the Internet has changed the rules and the nature of this sinister game. With the growth of the World Wide Web, these evil groups are able to deliver a multimedia hate message through every computer, and into the minds of every child, in every classroom, and library in America. Images of burning crosses, Neo-Nazi propaganda, every imaginable message of division and hatred are just one click away from our children. The Seattle Post-Intelligencer reported in an article entitled ``Nazism on the Internet'':  
   Many sites operated by neo-nazis, skinhead, Ku Klux Klan members and followers of radical religious sects are growing more sophisticated, offering inviting Web environments that are designed to be attractive to children and young adults.  
   The software filtering industry estimates that about 180 new hate or discrimination pages, 2,500 to 7,500 adult sites, 400 sites dedicated to violence, 1,250 dedicated to weapons, and 50 are murder-suicide sites are added to the Web every week. 
   Manuals on bomb-making, weapons purchases, drug making and purchasing, are widespread on the Internet. Simple word searches using ``marijuana,'' enables kids to access Web sites instructing them on how to cultivate, buy, and consume drugs. During the Commerce Committee hearing on my bill, the Children's Internet Protection Act, a representative of the BATF stated: ``The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms recently ran a simple Internet query of pipe bomb, using several commonly used search engines. This query produced nearly three million ``hits'' of Web sites containing information on pipe bombs.'' Literature such as the ``Terrorist's Handbook'' is easily available on-line, and provides readers with instruction on everything from how to build guns and bombs, to lists of suppliers for the chemicals, and other ingredients necessary to construct such devices. Web sites such as (www.overthrow.comldrugznbombz.html) offers the ``School Stopper's Textbook,'' touted as ``A Guide to Disruptive Revolutionary Tactics for High-Schoolers.'' 
   There are now approximately ninety different blocking, or filtering software solutions that parents and educators may choose from to address just about  every different value or need relating to child safety on the Internet. 
   Due to the sheer size of the Internet, and the place at which it changes, some have argued that it is impossible to keep blocking lists current and comprehensive. Others have argued filtering systems are too arbitrary, that filtering by keyword may result in blocking both harmful sites, as well as useful sites. There was a time when there was some legitimacy to these claims. However, that time has passed. 
   According to Peter Nickerson, CEO of Net Nanny Software:  
   A general perception exists that Internet filtering is seriously flawed and in many situations unusable. It is also perceived that schools and libraries don't want filtering. These notions are naive and based largely on problems associated with earlier versions of client-based software that are admittedly crude and ineffective. Though some poor filtering products still exist, filtering has gone through an extensive evolution and is not only good at protecting children but also well-received and in high demand.  
   When a school or library accepts federal dollars through the Universal Service fund, they become a partner with the federal government in pursuing the compelling interest of protecting children. The Supreme Court has made it clear that schools have the authority to remove inappropriate books from school libraries. The Internet is simply another method for making information available in a school or library. It is no more than a technological extension of the book stack. As such, the same principles affirmed by the Court apply to restricting children's access to material, over the Internet, in a school. 
   At its core, this amendment to a spending bill, amending 254(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 to require, as a contingency for receipt of a federal subsidy, certain measures to restrict children's access to child pornography, obscene material, and other harmful material via school and library computers, and that all users be restricted from accessing child pornography. Local officials are granted the authority to determine what technology is used to achieve this end, and policies for determining how such technology is used. There is ample precedent for conditioning receipt of federal assistance. 
   Libraries place many restrictions on what patrons may do while on the premises. The simplest example of this are the strict rules implemented by libraries to maintain a quiet atmosphere for reading and study. Patrons are not permitted to give speeches, make public statements, sing, speak loudly, etc. Further, it is the exclusive authority of the library to make affirmative decisions regarding what books, magazines, or other material is placed on library shelves, or otherwise made available to patrons. According to Jay Sekulow, of the American Center for Law and Justice:  
   Libraries impose many restrictions on the use of their systems which demonstrate that the library is not available to the general public. Additionally, an open forum by government designation becomes, `open' because it allows the general public into its facility for First Amendment activities. Like in the National Endowment for the Arts v. Finley, decision, the government purchase of books (like buying art) does not create a public forum.  
   Mr. President, currently, roughly 30 percent of U.S. households are wired to the Internet, with some smaller number of those households wired with children in the home. With full implementation of the E-rate program, there will be an explosion of children going on-line. This is an unprecedented egalitarian opportunity for access to educational and informational resources by America's children. Equally, this reality represents an unprecedented risk to the safety and innocence of our nation's most precious resources, the sanctity of childhood. 
   The first line of defense is parents. Parents must be involved in their children's lives. They must make it a point to know what their kids are doing on-line, the games they are playing, the web sites and chat rooms they are visiting, whom they are talking to. 
   But parents need help. Currently, for most children, their Internet activities will occur outside the home. Parents, taxpayers, deserve to have a realistic faith that, when they entrust their children to our nation's schools and libraries, that this trust will not betrayed. 
   Mr. President, Dr. Carl Jung, in 1913, spoke of the importance of childhood in shaping values, and the implications for future generations. Jung said: ``The little world of childhood with its familiar surroundings is a model of the greater world. The more intensively the family has stamped its character upon the child, the more it will tend to feel and see its earlier miniature world again in the bigger world of adulthood.'' 
   As I look upon the landscape of America today, of our children, growing up in a culture of darkness, of a mass media that floods their innocent minds with images of gratuitous sex and senseless violence, as I contemplate the likes of predators who stalk our children through this new technology, of pornographers and hate mongers who seek to invade the sanctity of the innocence of childhood to stamp their dark values on our children, I wonder what the future world of adulthood will look like if we do not act swiftly and decisively to build an inviolable wall around our precious children. 
   This bill was passed last year by voice vote. I hope we can dispense with it, and I also hope Members of this body understand that what is happening in schools and libraries all over America, in many cases, is an unacceptable situation. 
   We are not trying to impose any standards from the Federal Government or from this body. We are asking the schools and libraries to impose standards according to community standards, according to what the local library board and school board thinks is appropriate, just as those decisions are made about printed material in schools and libraries. I think this is an important issue. The testimony before the Commerce Committee was alarming and very disturbing. 
   Obviously, we do not intend to invade the sanctity of the home nor tell parents what they should and should not do regarding their children. But I believe when taxpayer dollars are involved, the Federal Government then has a role to play. 
   As a proud conservative, I hope we will pass this legislation quickly, and that it will be enacted into law. The sooner the better. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Two. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator HATCH and Senator LEAHY for this amendment. I think it is a very positive contribution. I think it is one that will again empower parents to be able to screen and filter information that their children may be receiving. It is something that I think will be very helpful to this bill, and I strongly support it. 
   I know we have spent some time working out the details of this amendment. I think it is a very good one. I thank Senator LEAHY and Senator HATCH for their involvement in this very important issue. 
   I will urge, at the appropriate time, a voice vote and adoption of this amendment. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I oppose the amendment of the Senator from Pennsylvania. It does provide for schools and libraries to deploy blocking or filtering technology. The amendment provides what is essentially a status quo loophole. 
   The Senator's amendment would allow schools and libraries the option of implementing an acceptable use policy. Schools and libraries are free to do this today. Papers are full of reports of young children surfing foreign libraries in school and being innocently exposed to pornography downloaded by adults and left on a computer screen for children to see. 
   It is interesting to note that the American Library Association, an outspoken advocate for the amendment of the Senator from Pennsylvania, is adamantly opposed to use of filters or any other type of protection for children. 
   In 1997, the American Library Association passed a resolution against filtering Internet pornography out of public libraries. The ALA's interpretation of their resolution contained in their library bill of rights states that the rights of users who are minors shall in no way be abridged. According to Judith Krug, director of ALA's Office of Intellectual Freedom:  
   Blocking material leads to censorship. That goes for pornography and bestiality, too. If you don't like it, don't look at it.  
   Ms. Krug goes on to discuss the concerns of parents about their children viewing pornography on library computers:  
   If you don't want your children to access information, you had better be with your children when they use a computer.   
   That would be very interesting information to working 
   mothers all over America as well as working fathers. I guess this is the ALA's concept of an acceptable use policy: Parents beware. 
   The Santorum amendment does nothing about adult computer use in libraries. This amendment would require libraries to block or filter access to child pornography. I want to describe what my bill does as far as local control is concerned. It requires that schools and libraries must block or filter children's access to child pornography and obscene material. Further, libraries must block adult access to child pornography on all computers. Why? Because we know that neither category, child pornography nor obscene material, enjoys protection under the first amendment. The Supreme Court has decided that on several occasions. 
   Though the bill is clear on what sort of material must be blocked, local authorities are given complete authority to select the type of software they deem to be appropriate. Further, local authorities are given unfettered authority to determine what material can constitute child pornography and obscenity. Under this legislation, the Federal Government is expressly prohibited from interfering in the process of local control. Schools and libraries are simply required to certify to the FCC they have a technology in place and are using such technology in coordination with the locally developed policy designed to achieve the goals of the Children's Internet Protection Act. Schools and libraries are required to make their blocking and filtering policies publicly available so that parents, patrons, and citizens can scrutinize the policies and work with local authorities to ensure they reflect contemporary community standards. 
   Again, parents beware of the status quo loophole contained in the Santorum amendment. It is big enough for every pornographer, pedophile, and hate group in America to drive a truck through. 
   The Senator from Pennsylvania has criticized my amendment with the claim that my amendment does nothing to address chatrooms. The Senator is mistaken. First, schools and libraries are granted the unfettered authority to block access to any material they determine to be inappropriate for minors. Clearly, this would provide them with the ability to restrict kids' access to chatrooms or any other realm of the Internet. Despite claims to the contrary, blocking and filtering software does restrict such access. The state-of-the-art technology clearly is capable of blocking such access. Filtering software would restrict any communication based off keyword restrictions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Reading from the letter:  
   Senator MCCAIN: We strongly oppose the Neighborhood Children's Internet Protection Act which we believe would be an ineffective tool to protect children from Internet pornography in schools and public libraries. The bill offers schools and libraries the option of either blocking pornography or implementing an Internet use policy. It is this option that troubles us. Schools and libraries have that option today and, sadly, most have chosen to allow children access even to illegal pornography, such as obscenity and child pornography. Under S. 1545, we presume these schools and libraries would maintain the status quo. 
   It also must be noted that the Children's Internet Protection Act only addresses use of computers by children. A major problem, particularly in libraries, is the use of computers by adults to access illegal pornography. For example, pedophiles are accessing child pornography on library computers and some are even molesting children in these libraries. Yet, S. 1545 does not address this matter. 
   While we believe that the author of this bill, Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), has the best of intentions, his bill will not provide an effective solution to the problem of pornography in schools and public libraries.  
   That is signed by a large group of people, including the American Family Association, Family Research Council, National Law Center for Children and Families, Traditional Values Coalition, et cetera. 
   On the other side, the amendment of the Senator from Pennsylvania is supported by the American Library Association. On that note, I will read very briefly from an editorial contained in the January 14, 2000, Wall Street Journal:  
   Maybe blocking software is not the solution. We do know, however, that there are answers for those interested in finding them, answers that are technologically possible, constitutionally sound and eminently sane. After all, when it comes to print, librarians have no problem discriminating against Hustler in favor of House & Garden. Indeed, to dramatize the ALA's inconsistency regarding adult content in print and online, blocking software advocate David Burt three years ago announced ``The Hustler Challenge''--a standing offer to pay for a year's subscription to Hustler for any library that wanted one. Needless to say, there haven't been any takers. 
   Our guess is that this is precisely what Leonard Kniffel, the editor of the ALA journal American Libraries, was getting at last fall when he asked in an editorial: ``What is preventing this Association.......from coming out with a public statement denouncing children's access to pornography and offering 700+ ways to fight it?'' 
   Good question. And we'll learn this weekend whether the ALA hierarchy believes it worthy of an answer.  
   The ALA hierarchy met, and obviously they seemed to defend what I believe is an indefensible position. 
   I hope we will defeat the Santorum amendment. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want the Record to be clear that the Catholic Conference is not in opposition to this legislation. Here is the problem contained in the report ``Filtering Facts,'' which is a very deep, detailed analysis of this problem that we are facing. 
   On page 8 is a chapter entitled ``Adults Accessing Child Pornography: 20 Incidents'':  
   There were 20 incidents of adults accessing child pornography in public libraries. Child pornography is different from other forms of pornography in that it is absolutely illegal and, like drugs, is treated as contraband by Federal law. Of particular concern is that many public libraries employ policies that would seem to encourage the illegal transmission of child pornography. Many public libraries not only have privacy screens, but also destroy patron sign-up sheets after use, and employ computer programs that delete any trace of user activity. These policies make it almost impossible for law enforcement to catch pedophiles using public library Internet stations to download child pornography. At the Multnomah County, OR, Public Library, and the Los Angeles, CA, Public Library, pedophiles have taken advantage of the anonymity to actually run child pornography businesses using library computers 34 and 35. 
   The staff at Anderson, IN, Public Library observed a pedophile accessing child pornography on three separate occasions: ``A customer who is known to frequent Internet sites containing sexually explicit pictures of nude boys ..... This is the third time this customer has been observed engaging in this activity.'' Yet, the only appropriate action the library saw fit was to ``highly recommend that he be restricted from the building for a period of not less than 2 months.'' 
   One of the two incidents where the library actually notified police occurred at the Lakewood, OH, Public Library. In an account from the Akron Beacon Journal, ``But it was the library more than the police and prosecutor that alarmed Chris Link, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio. Traditionally, librarians have protected their records of lending activity to the point of being subpoenaed or going to jail,'' she said. But now, she said, ``Librarians are scrutinizing what it is you look at and reporting you to the police.'' In the case of kiddie porn, Link said, such scrutiny ``would seem to make sense'' until it is viewed in light of the Government's history of searches for socialists and communists or members of certain student movements. 
   The Callaway County, MO, Public Library even actively resisted police efforts to investigate a patron accessing child pornography. Library staff refused to cooperate, even when issued subpoenas.  
   Mr. President, the list goes on and on. There is a need for this kind of legislation to make sure that child pornography and forms of obscenity, which are clearly delineated by the U.S. Supreme Court and are beyond any constitutional protection, are made unavailable to children. 
   Mr. President, this Santorum amendment would remove that very important provision of this legislation. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000627</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, a vote in favor of the Santorum amendment will basically negate the amendment we just adopted because it will allow schools and libraries the option of either blocking pornography or implementing an Internet use policy--an Internet use policy is what they have now--nor does it require the filtering of child pornography and obscenity. 
   I have a letter signed by various organizations, including the American Families Association, Family Research Council, and many other organizations. The final paragraph says:  
   We believe the author of the bill, Senator Santorum, has the best of intentions. His bill will not provide an effective solution to the problem of pornography in schools and public libraries.  
   I agree with them. I urge a ``no'' vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000626</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 2327, the Oceans Act of 2000. This bill would establish a Commission on Ocean Policy to assess the problems that face our nation's coastal regions. Over half of the U.S. population lives in these areas and they are the source of one third of our gross domestic product. Clearly, the current problems faced in our coastal areas cannot be left unattended. Senator HOLLINGS, the ranking member on the Commerce Committee, has worked hard on this legislation. I am pleased that the Committee was able to report this bill in the most expeditious manner. 
   The Commission will examine current programs and policies related to coastal and Great Lakes regions, and determine whether the problems in such areas are adequately addressed by current laws, regulations, and public policy. The 1966 Stratton Commission, also the result of the hard work of Senators HOLLINGS, STEVENS, and INOUYE, led to the establishment of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the enactment of the Coastal Zone Management Act. While the Stratton Commission provided an invaluable service to our nation, over thirty years have passed since that landmark study. Now it is necessary to reexamine the programs, policies, and state of America's coastal areas. 
   The Commission established by this bill will issue recommendations to the President and Congress to develop an effective and efficient national policy for our coastal regions. Mr. President, it is time for a comprehensive review of the policies that affect so many Americans. 
   I thank Senator HOLLINGS for his hard work and determination to address this issue. Mr. President, I urge the Senate to pass the Oceans Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like once again to address the issue of unrequested and unnecessary earmarks in the annual foreign operations appropriations bill. 
   It is a constant struggle, Mr. President, to maintain a reasonable--if not always adequate--amount of funding for foreign operations when the public overwhelmingly opposes foreign aid programs. It is therefore incumbent upon those of us who believe that foreign aid programs are an important component of U.S. national security policy to spend that budget wisely. As usual, the foreign operations appropriations bill before us squanders vital financial resources for unnecessary, low-priority and unrequested programs. Once again, pressuring the Agency for International Development to fund research into the future welfare of the Waboom tree; providing millions of dollars for organizations like the Orangutan Foundation, the Peregrine Fund's Neotropical Raptor Center, the Missouri Botanical Garden, the Dian Fossey Gorrilla Fund, and the World Council of Hellenes--none of which was requested by the Agency for International Development or the Department of State--was deemed preferential to higher priority activities that unquestionably contribute to regional stability in less developed countries. 
   Mr. President, the notion that funding from the foreign aid budget not requested by the Administration should only go to organizations and programs following an objective, rigorous and competitive process eludes the Appropriations Committee. I am not reflexively opposed to all of the programs for which funding was added in this bill. I do take strong exception to the process by which funding is earmarked for parochial reasons. The bill before us today is replete with such examples. A long list of earmarks for university programs, the vast majority of which coincide with membership on the Appropriations Committee, is more evidence than even the O.J. Simpson jury would need that reasonable doubt exists as to whether such objective criteria are employed. 
   United States military forces are being deployed at record levels; conflicts in Africa and elsewhere are raging out of control, bringing with them untold misery, and we continue to pass spending bills of such dubious merit. I will support passage of the foreign operations appropriations bill, but only because it is imperative that funding for Israel, Egypt, refugee and migration assistance, and other vital programs receive the timely assistance they require. But to be forced to swallow such questionable earmarks as the $1 million for the Fort Valley State University agribusiness program in Georgia--and I should point out that the Republic of Georgia has no greater friend in the Senate than me--without the benefit of a competitive analytical process is more than a little painful. I suppose it is only appropriate that, once again, we are adding funding, this year to the tune of $4 million, for the International Fertilizer Development Center. There is something strangely appropriate that we spend tens of millions of dollars to fund the fertilizer center given the process by which this bill is put together every year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, it is simply wrong that many of our nation's seniors who live on fixed incomes must choose between medicine and food. Our seniors should not be forced to drive over the border to Canada to purchase affordable prescription drugs. 
   As I have said many times over, we must work together to develop an initiative for helping America's seniors  obtain the prescription medication they so desperately need without forcing them to chose between groceries and vital medicines. Each of us must put aside partisan politics and work together to help our nation's seniors--many of whom are skipping or ignoring their medical needs because of the exorbitant prices they must pay for medication. 
   But I can not support the proposal before the Senate this evening. I can not support using parliamentary procedures and political posturing to force a vote on a proposal that has not been available for extensive review, analysis and input--particularly from our constituents and the very seniors we are trying to help. That is simply wrong. 
   Congress must take great pains to ensure that a Medicare prescription drug plan does not repeat the mistakes of Medicare Catastrophic legislation in the late 1980's. Medicare Catastrophic made broad, expensive reforms in the Medicare system which seniors saw as excessive, unnecessary and unviable. To truly help seniors obtain prescription drugs we need to take the time to engage in a thorough debate carefully scrutinizing and vetting the proposal. We must be conscious of what America's seniors want and need, and balance that with fiscal restraint and responsibility. We must find a method for helping our nation's seniors have access to prescription drugs that does not place an unfair and unexpected burden upon them or the taxpayers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the purpose of this amendment is to protect America's children from exposure to obscene material, child pornography, or other material deemed inappropriate for minors while accessing Internet from a school or library receiving Federal universal service assistance by requiring such schools and libraries to deploy blocking or filtering technology on computers used by minors and to block general access to obscene material and child pornography on all computers. The amendment further requires that schools and libraries block child pornography on all computers. 
   The last few years have seen a dramatic expansion in Internet connection. The Internet connects more than 29 million host computers in more than 250 countries. Currently, the Internet is growing at a rate of approximately 40 percent to 50 percent annually. Some estimates have the number of U.S. Internet users as high as 62 million. 
   There are approximately 86,000 public schools in the United States. The first program year of the e-rate, 68,220 public schools participated in the program. That is approximately 68 percent of all public schools. Participation increased by 15 percent in the second year, from July 1, 1999, to June 30, 2000, with 78,722 public schools listed on funded applications. Statistics on libraries participating in the program mirror these dramatic numbers. 
   I lay out these statistics because they represent both the tremendous promise and the exponential danger that wiring America's children to the Internet poses. Certainly the Internet represents previously unimaginable education and information opportunities for our Nation's schoolchildren. 
   However, there are also some very real risks. Pornography, including obscene material, child pornography, and indecent material is widely available on the Internet. This material may be accessed directly or may turn up as the product of a general Internet search. 
   Seemingly innocuous key word searches such as Barbie doll, playground, boy, and girl can turn up some of the most offensive and shocking pornography imaginable. 
   According to the National Journal, there are at least 30,000 pornographic web sites. This number does not include Usenet news groups and pornographic spam. 
   As we have seen through an increasing flurry of shocking media reports, the Internet has become the tool of choice for pedophiles who utilize the Internet to lure and seduce children into illegal and abusive sexual activity. Pedophiles are using this technology to trade in child pornography and to lure and seduce our children. In many cases, such activity is the product of individuals taking advantage of the anonymity provided by the Internet to stalk children through chatrooms and by e-mail. However, an increasingly disturbing trend is that of highly organized and technologically sophisticated groups of pedophiles who utilize advanced technology to trade in child pornography and to sexually exploit and abuse children. 
   As we wire America's children to the Internet, we are inviting these lowlifes to prey upon our children in every classroom and library in America. If this isn't enough, the Internet has now become a tool of choice for disseminating information and propaganda promoting racism, anti-Semitism, extremism, and how-to manuals on everything from drugs to bombs. 
   Rapid Internet growth has provided an opportunity for those promoting hate to reach a much wider and broader audience. Children are uniquely susceptible to these messages of hate, and make no mistake about it, they are the targets of these messages. According to the New York Times: ``They, hate groups, peddle hatred to children, with brightly colored Web pages featuring a coloring book of white supremacist symbols and a crossword puzzle full of racist clues.'' 
   Media propaganda has always been used as a means for spreading the toxic message of hate. Magazines, pamphlets, movies, music and other media have been their traditional tools for those seeking to feed the darker side of our human nature. The Seattle Post-Intelligencer reported in an article entitled ``Nazism on the Internet'': ``Many sites operated by neo-nazis, skinheads, Ku Klux Klan members and followers of radical religious sects are growing more sophisticated, offering inviting Web environments that are designed to be attractive to children and young adults.'' 
   The software filtering industry estimates that about 180 new hate or discrimination pages, 2,500 to 7,500 adult sites, 400 sites dedicated to violence, 1,250 dedicated to weapons, and 50 are murder-suicide sites are added to the Web every week. 
   Manuals on bomb-making, weapons purchases, drug making and purchasing, are widespread on the Internet. Simple word searches using ``marijuana,'' enables kids to access Web sites instructing them on how to cultivate, buy, and consume drugs. Literature such as the ``Terrorist's Handbook'' is easily available on-line, and provides readers with instruction on everything from how to build guns and bombs, to lists of suppliers for the chemicals, and other ingredients necessary to construct such devices. 
   When a school or library accepts Federal dollars through the Universal Service fund, they become a partner with the federal government in pursuing the compelling interest of protecting children. 
   Mr. President, Dr. Carl Jung, in 1913, spoke of the importance of childhood in shaping values, and the implications for future generations. Jung said: ``The little world of childhood with its familiar surroundings is a model of the greater world. The more intensively the family has stamped its character upon the child, the more it will tend to feel and see its earlier miniature world again in the bigger world of adulthood.'' 
   As I look upon the landscape of America today, of our children, growing up in a culture of violence, of a mass media that floods their innocent minds with images of gratuitous sex and senseless violence, as I contemplate the likes of predators who stalk our children through this new technology, of pornographers and hate mongers who seek to invade the sanctity of the innocence of childhood to stamp their dark values on our children, I wonder what the future world of adulthood will look like if we do not act swiftly and decisively to build an inviolable wall around our precious children. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to print in the RECORD a letter from a group of people, including the American Family Association, Family Research Council, Republican Jewish Coalition, Traditional Values Coalition, many others in support of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this is from Houston Reuters, Thursday, June 15:  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to address the situation in Colombia and the question of the U.S. role there. 
   The situation in Colombia has been correctly described as grave. To the extent that ``grave'' can be considered an understatement, however, that is the case with respect to the ongoing conflict in that strife-torn country. The issue ostensibly before us involves the war on drugs. What is being contemplated, however, should under no conditions be considered a simple extension of that struggle. What is being considered is nothing less than an escalated U.S. role in what has increasingly become an all-out civil war. The relationship between the narcotics trafficking that we seek to curtail and the insurgency that we oppose but dare not engage has become dangerously blurred. To contemplate engaging one but not the other is to labor under an illusion of alarming dimensions. 
   Mr. President, the conditions on the ground in Colombia are not in doubt. A large, highly motivated, well-armed and funded guerrilla army, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, and the smaller but equally lethal National Liberation Front, have emerged over the last two years as a serious threat not just to Colombia, but to the entire Andean region. The FARC, in particular, has evolved into a large-scale threat to regional stability. Look carefully at the operations the FARC has carried out over the past two years. What you will see is impressive and alarming. Sophisticated battalion-size operations against Colombian military and police units, including coordinated multi-objective operations spread out across Colombia have become the norm. The March 1998 battle at El Billar, for example, demonstrated the FARC's ability to conduct battalion-size operations employing refined tactics like maneuver warfare against Colombia's best trained units. In a separate operation, a 1,200-strong guerrilla force successfully carried out simultaneous attacks on an anti-narcotics police installation and the army base at Miraflores, overwhelming both. 
   This should give us pause. The Colombian government's position is precarious. Already, the fighting has touched Colombia's neighbors. Panama, which lacks a military as a result of the post-invasion structure the United States imposed on that country, is now threatened by cross-border incursions by guerrillas, whose main arms pipeline crosses its border with Colombia. Colombia's other neighbors in Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela are all feeling the heat from the war in Colombia, the latter in the form of refugees escaping the fighting. 
   I point all of this out, Mr. President, because no one here 
   should be under any doubt that the path down which we are heading is potentially fraught with peril. I don't know anyone who actually believes that Plan Colombia is the answer to that country's problems; we support it because we are at a loss for viable alternatives. But a guerrilla army as capable as the FARC will not be defeated by three specially-trained and equipped battalions. Much more is needed, including fundamental reform and restructuring of the Colombian armed forces to reverse the ratio of combat units to rear-area units--a key reason an army of 140,000 is stretched so thin against guerrilla armies numbering around 20,000. 
   And the army and police must be thoroughly inculcated with the need to respect human rights. This not just a moral imperative, but a practical one as well. Human rights abuses by government forces increases sympathy for guerrilla armies that otherwise lack serious popular support. It is never easy, as we learned in Vietnam, to fight a guerrilla army that can melt into civilian surroundings and build an infrastructure of support, through force and intimidation if necessary, that government forces are hard-pressed to defeat without inflicting civilian casualties. But Colombia's army and police must not underestimate the importance of maintaining constant vigilance in respecting the rights of the people they purport to defend. 
   The United States role in Plan Colombia is, to date, limited to training the aforementioned special battalions and equipping them with modern helicopters. Toward this end, we are sending special forces teams into the field in the midst of that civil war. The primary role of U.S. Army Special Forces is the provision of such training. But we must be assured that their role will not extend to that of active combatants. The bond that will surely develop between our soldiers and those they are training must not extend to a gradual expansion of their role in Colombia. 
   And with respect to the issue of helicopters, Mr. President, I find it deplorable that the question of which helicopter should be provided to Colombia should be decided on the basis of any consideration other than operational requirements. Blackhawks were selected for the capabilities they provide, capabilities that are not inconsequential in terms of the Counter-Narcotics Battalions' ability to deploy to the field with the speed and in the number required to confront opposing forces. Their substitution by the Appropriations Committee with Super Hueys goes beyond the usual fiscally irresponsible approach to legislating that permeates Congress. It is, in fact, morally wrong. We are talking life and death decisions here: the ability of soldiers to fight a war. That decisions on their equipment should be decided on the basis of parochial considerations is reprehensible. 
   Let me return, though, to the fundamental issue of a counter narcotics strategy that is imbued with an inherent flaw: the misguided notion that the war on drugs in Colombia can be separated from the guerrilla and paramilitary activity that is the threat to Colombia's existence. If, as has been suggested, the FARC is reconsidering its involvement in the drug trade, it is possible that surgical counterdrug operations can be conducted without expanding into counterinsurgency. That the guerrillas control the very territory where the coca fields are located, however, should continue to cause us concern. To quote one unnamed U.S. official in the Christian Science Monitor, ``If the guerrillas [so] choose, they don't have to continue to protect the narcos, [but] if they do.....this [aid] will be used against them.'' 
   This, Mr. President, is precisely the problem. Plan Colombia is perhaps a last desperate hope to save a nation. But it carries with it the seeds of greater U.S. involvement in a civil war of enormous proportions. Those of us who have been witness to our country being gradually mired in a conflict in another region, in another time, should not fail to bear witness to the choices we make today. Funding for this plan will go forward, but the Administration and the government in Bogota should not be surprised that many of us will be watching the situation there very carefully. To do less would be to acquiesce in the possible materialization of that most feared foreign policy scenario, another Vietnam. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, last year, the Senate adopted an amendment to the FY 2000 Foreign Operations Appropriations Act that deleted language restricting the availability of funds for the Inter-American Foundation. I offered that amendment, which was included in the managers' amendment to the bill and accepted without objection, because the basis for restricting the Foundation's funding was inaccurate and misleading. Chairman STEVENS and Chairman MCCONNELL, when apprised of the facts of the situation, agreed to remove the language from the bill, and I appreciate their willingness to do so. 
   This year, the report contains language that is similarly inaccurate and misleading, and that implies that a principal reason for terminating funding for the Foundation is an ongoing concern about the activities of a staff member of the Foundation. Based on the agreement of Chairman STEVENS and Chairman MCCONNELL to remove similar language from the bill last year, as well as the subsequent resolution of this matter, I was surprised to again see a reference to this matter in the Committee's report. 
   First, let me say that I am not passing judgment on whatever other reasons the Committee may have for terminating the funding for the Inter-American Foundation. However, I object to the Committee's continued reference to an individual staff member of the Foundation as a reason for shutting down the Foundation. Let me take a moment to clearly state the facts of the matter. 
   Last year, the General Accounting Office conducted an investigation of allegations of contract and hiring regulatory abuses at the Foundation that were reported anonymously to their fraud hotline. The GAO completed their investigation and forwarded a report to the Committee on May 20, 1999, and requested permission to brief the Board of Directors of the Foundation on their findings, as well as certain additional allegations received during the course of interviews at the Foundation. On June 30, 1999, when Chairman STEVENS and Chairman MCCONNELL agreed to remove language from the bill last year that withheld funding for the Foundation until GAO completed a further investigation, the GAO was free to brief the Foundation. At that time, the Chairmen advised me that, by referring the matter to the Foundation's Board, the Appropriations Committee would view this investigation as complete and no further action would be taken by the Committee regarding the subject of the GAO investigation. 
   GAO briefed the Foundation Board on July 23, 1999. The minutes of that Board meeting indicate that GAO investigators stated that GAO had issued a final report on their review of the Foundation's contracting and personnel actions and that no further review would be undertaken. In addition, GAO investigators stated to the Board that the anonymous allegations received against a Foundation staff member were administrative in nature and would not be further investigated by GAO. Board members expressed concern and indignity at the allegations against the staff member, and concluded that no further action would be necessary. On August 5, 1999, the Board adopted a formal resolution to that effect. 
   Mr. President, continued references to unfounded, disproven anonymous allegations against this staff member contribute nothing to the public's understanding of any legitimate reasons the Committee may have for terminating the funding for the Inter-American Foundation. I would like to ask Chairman STEVENS if he agrees that long-resolved issues regarding a now-former staff member at the Foundation are not related to the Committee's action. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Thank you, Senator STEVENS. Mr. President, I would also like to ask Chairman STEVENS if he would agree to include in the conference statement of managers on the FY 2001 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill a clear statement disavowing this report language regarding a now-former employee of the Foundation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Thank you, Senator STEVENS. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my colleague from New Hampshire. 
   I rise in opposition to the Dodd-Warner amendment. Let's make no mistake about this amendment. It is intended to presage a lifting of United States sanctions on Cuba. I do not believe the United States should change its policy toward Cuba. I believe Cuba should change its policy toward the United States of America. 
   I supported normalization of relations between the United States of America and Vietnam. That was based on a roadmap where, in return for certain specific actions taken by Vietnam, the United States would take actions in return. That took place. The Vietnamese troops left Cambodia. Reeducation camps were emptied. There was an increase in human rights and improvements made in a variety of ways which led to eventual normalization. 
   I don't expect Cuba to become a functioning democracy. It was a totalitarian, repressive government 30 years ago; it is a repressive, totalitarian government today. The latest example is two doctors who have been detained in Zimbabwe who wanted freedom, who are still not free, who are being brought back to Cuba for, obviously, horrific treatment because of their desire to no longer be associated with Castro's regime. 
   On July 23, 1999, Human Rights Watch issued a highly critical report on the human rights situation in Cuba. The report describes how Cuba has developed a highly effective machinery of repression and has used this to restrict severely the exercise of fundamental human rights, of expression, association, and assembly. According to the report: In recent years, Cuba has added  new repressive laws and continued prosecuting nonviolent dissidents while shrugging off international appeals to reform and placating visiting dignitaries with occasional releases of political prisoners. 
   I urge every Senator to read Human Rights' reports on Cuba before we take steps to improve relations. 
   This is the same regime that sent its troops to Africa to further the cause of communism there. This is the same regime that continues to repress and oppress its people. 
   Not too long ago, Mr. Castro decided to allow people to operate a restaurant within their own homes. Somehow that became a threat to the state, and Mr. Castro shut down even that rudimentary form of a free enterprise system. 
   It is not an accident that the automobile of choice in Cuba today is a 1956 Chevrolet. 
   It is deplorable that Mr. Castro and his government should encourage young women to engage in prostitution in order to gain hard currency for their regime. 
   The latest manifestation is the detainment of two decent men who are doctors who wanted freedom. 
   There is no freedom in Cuba. 
   The day that Castro decides to allow progress in human rights, in the free enterprise system, in the exercise of the basic rights of men and women that we try to guarantee to all men and women throughout the world, is the day I take the floor and ask that we consider a roadmap or certain incentives for Mr. Castro to become anything but the international pariah that he and his regime deservedly are branded as today. 
   I thank the Senator from New Hampshire. Again, I am more than willing to lay out a roadmap for Mr. Castro to follow, but there has not been one single indication that Mr. Castro is prepared to even grant the most fundamental and basic rights to the citizens of his country, which is the reason they continue to attempt to flee his regime at every opportunity. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000620</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I rise in opposition to the Dodd amendment establishing a commission to evaluate U.S.-Cuban relations. 
   Ordinarily, Mr. President, I find it difficult to rationalize opposing a study of a complex issue. I do not have such difficulties, however, with regards to the amendment before us today. Make no mistake, the commission proposed in the Dodd amendment is intended to presage a lifting of U.S. sanctions on Cuba, and to do so by presenting a false dichotomy involving United States policies in other regions of the world. 
   For 40 years, Fidel Castro has run Cuba as a totalitarian bastion in the Western Hemisphere, his policies in Latin America and the Caribbean and on the African continent have been and continue to be implacably hostile to U.S. interests. He was driven in that direction, as some would have us believe, by U.S. opposition to the revolution that he continues to seek to foster beyond his shores. Rather, he rose to power dedicated to undermining U.S. influence abroad and has never--not once--deviated from that path. The fact that his ability to act abroad has been severely curtailed since the demise of the Soviet Union has not dampened his ardor for spreading the gospel of Marx and Lenin wherever he finds a receptive audience. 
   Virtually every day, we are provided reminders of the anachronistic dictatorship near our shores. Most recently, the case of two Cuban doctors who defected in Zimbabwe--a country itself in the throes of turbulence stemming from its adherence to authoritarian policies--illustrates yet again the desire of the Cuban people for the freedom that swept that country's former allies in Eastern Europe and across Latin America. A 1999 report by Human Rights Watch on Cuba described its development of ``a highly effective machinery of repression'' that it has used ``to restrict severely the exercise of fundamental human rights of expression, association, and assembly.'' The report continues, noting that, ``in recent years, Cuba has added new repressive laws and continued prosecuting nonviolent dissidents while shrugging off international appeals for reform and placating visiting dignitaries with occasional releases of political prisoners.'' 
   Similarly, the State Department's annual report on human rights states that the  
   ......authorities routinely continued to harass, threaten, arbitrarily arrest, detain, imprison, and defame human rights advocates and members of independent professional associations, including journalists, economists, doctors, and lawyer, often with the goal of coercing them into leaving the country.  
   Let me emphasize, Mr. President, that Cuba is not an authoritarian regime that holds promise of transitioning to a free-market economy with gradual democratization, such as has occurred in other countries. It remains a staunch Marxist dictatorship providing no freedom whatsoever. Rare instances where minor economic freedoms were permitted were rapidly retracted when it became obvious that capitalism provided a viable and desirable alternative to state socialism. 
   On the security front, we should not be deceived by the straw man argument that the absence of a military threat to the United States from Cuba undermines the current U.S. policy towards that country. Few among us believe such a threat exists. What does exist, however, is a continued effort at undermining democracy in Latin America and in Africa, and in undermining the U.S. position in those regions. Cuba's continued hosting of the Russian military's main signals intelligence facility at Lourdes remains a threat to U.S. national and economic security. According to the liberal Federation of American Scientists, the strategic significance of the Lourdes facility ``has possibly grown since 07 February 1996 [pursuant to a] directive from Russian President Boris Yeltsin directing the Russian intelligence community to step up the acquisition of American and other Western economic and trade secrets.'' 
   Additionally, the United States must remain wary of the future of the Soviet-designed nuclear reactors at Cienfuegos. Any accident at these facilities--understanding that they remain uncompleted--would directly and severely impact the eastern seaboard of the United States. 
   The political and security situations vis-a-vis Cuba can be summarized by quoting directly from Secretary of Defense Cohen's May 1998 letter to then-Chairman of the Armed Services Committee STROM THURMOND:  
   While the assessment notes that the direct conventional threat by the Cuban military has decreased, I remain concerned about the use of Cuba as a base for intelligence activities directed against the United States, the potential threat that Cuba may pose to neighboring islands, Castro's continued dictatorship that represses the Cuban people's desire for political and economic freedom, and the potential instability that could accompany the end of his regime depending on the circumstances under which Castro departs.......Finally, I remain concerned about Cuba's potential to develop and produce biological agents, its biotechnology infrastructure, as well as the environmental health risks posed to the United States by potential accidents at the Juragua nuclear power facility.  
   Mr. President, I supported the establishment of diplomatic and trade relations with Vietnam because that country met a set of carefully established criteria that brought it in our direction, and did not force the United States to move in its direction. I would fully support a similar approach to Cuba. We don't need a commission to study our relations with Cuba; what we need is to establish a road map that the Castro regime must follow in order to facilitate a lifting of the sanctions it purports to find so odious. As with Saddam Hussein and Kim Il Sung, Castro has within his power the ability to fundamentally transform his country for the better and to reintroduce it fully into the community of nations. The ball is in Castro's court. Whether he possesses the wisdom to do what is right, unfortunately, is sadly unlikely. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000619</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, in assessing the situation in Zimbabwe today, permit me to quote a long-time supporter of that country's ruling party in reference to that party: ``If I give my name, they might hear and come for me at night.'' Such is the pervasive level of fear that has permeated Zimbabwe over the past several months and threatens that country with a degree of political instability not seen since white-minority rule gave way to the creation of the Republic of Zimbabwe. The increasingly autocratic regime of Robert Mugabe, threatened by the growth of a viable democratic opposition, is responding the way dictatorial regimes the world over generally do, with violence aimed at subverting the will of the people. 
   Permit me to quote from the June 3 issue of The Economist for a sense of what is going on inside Zimbabwe today:   
   Intimidation is rampant in the countryside.....Peasants are told that their votes are not secret and that they will suffer if they do not give them to the ruling party. People suspected of supporting opposition parties have been threatened, beaten and in some cases killed. Rural clinics and hospitals have been ordered to refuse treatment to opposition supporters. Teachers in the countryside have been singled out for attack, dragged from their classrooms and beaten in front of their students. Some female teachers have been stripped naked. More than 260 rural schools have been closed by the violence.  
   As chairman of the International Republican Institute, which has maintained a presence in Zimbabwe along with its counterpart National Democratic Institute, I am appalled at developments in that southern African country. Parliamentary elections, widely expected to result in a resounding victory for the opposition Movement for Democratic Change and thus threaten the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front's 20-year hold on power, are being systematically undermined by the kind of campaign violence and intimidation that has been all too common in other countries that resisted the path of democratization. That is unfortunate, for Zimbabwe, like other strife-torn countries of Africa, has the potential to provide its people a far better quality of life than can ever enjoy under one-party rule. 
   Those parliamentary elections, Mr. President, as with the defeat of the constitutional referendum in February, would have provided ample evidence that the majority of Zimbaweans are tired of corruption, vast unemployment, 60 percent inflation, and the fuel and energy shortages that have become a part of life in a 
   once wealthy nation. The recent decision by the International Republican Institute to withdraw its election observers, however, as well as the United Nation's withdrawal of its election coordinator, should be seen for what it is: a very clear warning sign that President Mugabe has no intention of permitting free and fair elections, and fully intends to continue his campaign of exacerbating ethnic divisions in Zimbabwe for his personal benefit. That President Mugabe refuses to even accredit U.S. Embassy personnel to act as observers is a stinging and unfortunate rebuke to the international community. The recent jailing of an opposition activist with whom I had the privilege of meeting in my office only two months ago not only augurs ill for the future of Zimbabwe, but hurts me deeply for the promise this fine woman showed in that meeting. 
   The deterioration of the political situation in Zimbabwe is the direct result of the unwillingness of President Mugabe to countenance any level of political opposition that threatens his hold on power. And make no mistake, that some ruling party members have come under attack by the opposition does not place both sides on an equal moral footing. On the contrary, Amnesty International and other foreign observers have been very clear that the government and its supporters are responsible for the violence that has wracked a country that had enjoyed 20 years of peace, flawed though it was by the socialist policies of Mr. Mugabe. The 30 or so deaths and hundreds of injuries that have occurred may, I fear, be only a precursor to greater violence should the Movement for Democratic Change continue to attempt to mount a credible campaign against one-party rule. 
   Mr. President, some may look at the seizure of white-owned farms by black squatters openly and vociferously encouraged by President Mugabe, and the murder of some of those farmers, through the prism of the former era of colonial and white-minority rule. That would be a tragic mistake. The deteriorating situation in Zimbabwe is directly tied to President Mugabe's autocratic rule and desperate attempt to hold back the tides of history, which appear to favor democracy. Mugabe's rejection of South African President Thabo Mbeki's efforts at brokering a quasi-reasonable resolution of the land-reform issue was further evidence of his growing penchant for petty tyranny as a substitute for enlightened government. 
   It is imperative that the United States, the European Community and, most importantly, the Organization of African Unity act forcefully in pressuring Mugabe to reverse his current dictatorial policies and allow for the conduct of free and fair elections. His failure to do so should be widely condemned. What ails Zimbabwe is not racial tension, but the age-old problem of a dictator who fails to read the writing on the walls. As with others before him, he will find, I suspect, that his world will become more and more confined, more and more restrictive and his actions more and more desperate. At a time when Sub-Saharan Africa has become synonymous with civil strife and the international community debates the ongoing wars in Sierra Leone and Congo, while conflict continues in Angola and ethnic violence continues in and around Rwanda and Burundi, Zimbabwe should have been a beacon of political stability and economic development. Instead, it descends into the darkness of tyranny. It is hopefully not too late to reverse the situation there, but the signs are not encouraging.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to engage in a colloquy with the Senator from Michigan, who is the original sponsor of the electronic signatures legislation, to discuss the consumer consent provisions in the conference report. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Is it the Senator's understanding that pursuant to subsection 101(c)(1)(C)(ii) of the conference report a consumer's affirmative consent to the receipt of electronic records needs to ``reasonably demonstrate'' that the consumer will be able to access the various forms of electronic records to which the consent applies? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I agree. The conferees did not intend that the ``reasonable demonstration'' requirement would burden either consumers or the person providing the electronic record. In fact, the conferees expect that a ``reasonable demonstration'' could be satisfied in many ways. Does the Senator agree with me that the conferees intend that the reasonable demonstration requirement is satisfied if the consumer confirmed in an e-mail response to the provider of the electronic records that he or she can access information in the specified formats? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Does the Senator also agree with me that the ``reasonable demonstration'' requirement would be satisfied, for instance, if the consumer responds affirmatively to an electronic query asking if he or she can access the electronic information or if the affirmative consent language includes the consumer's acknowledgement that he or she can access the electronic information in the designated format? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Would the ``reasonable demonstration requirement'' be satisfied if it is shown that the consumer actually accesses records in the relevant electronic format? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague's willingness to participate in this colloquy to clarify the clear intent of the conference with respect to this provision. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, my amendment is very simple and straight forward. It prevents Department of Transportation officials from authorizing project approvals or advance construction authority for the Central Artery/Third Harbor Tunnel project in Boston, Massachusetts, until the Secretary and the State have entered into a written agreement capping the federal contribution to the project. 
   Mr. President, last month I chaired a four-hour hearing in the Senate Commerce Committee on the Boston Central Artery/Tunnel project--the biggest, most costly public works project in U.S. history--and commonly referred to as ``the Big Dig.'' This project has suffered from gross mismanagement and what appears to have been a complete lack of critical federal oversight. It has experienced billions of dollars in cost overruns. 
   The Central/Artery Tunnel project was originally estimated to cost $2.5 billion in 1985. Today it is estimated to cost U.S. taxpayers a staggering $13.6 billion. 
   During the Committee's hearing, there was a lengthy exchange between myself, Senator KERRY, Secretary Slater, and DOT-Inspector General Ken Mead concerning the federal obligation to this project. I argued then, as I do now, that there is no cap on the federal obligation. Senator KERRY argued there is. And Secretary Slater said we were both right! 
   Let me read a few lines from the May 3rd hearing transcript:  
   The CHAIRMAN: Mr. Secretary, is there a cap on the Federal share of the project costs? 
   Secretary SLATER: Mr. Chairman, there is a cap. It is true though, as you noted, and as Senator Kerry noted, that it is not in the statute or necessarily in writing.  
   I ask my colleagues, if it isn't in statute or in writing, then where is it? The answer is, of course, that it doesn't currently exist. 
   Mr. President, it is not my intent to stop the Boston project. The project should be completed as quickly and as fiscally responsibly as possible. 
   The purpose of my amendment is to direct the Secretary and the State of Massachusetts to do what the Secretary said he would do at the May 3rd hearing--to execute a written agreement capping the federal obligation of the project at the level announced by the Department--that is, no more than $8.549 billion. 
   It has been six weeks since the Secretary indicated the Department was working on an agreement to cap the funding. DOT officials informed my office again today that an agreement is in the works and I am to be assured it will include the $8.549 billion cap. Given this, I can think of no reason why not to support my amendment to spur their actions to execute the agreement sooner rather than later. 
   The House-passed DOT Appropriations bill includes a provision that would effectively halt the project for fiscal year 2001. My amendment would not do that. It just ensures that the promised written agreement is executed once and for all and that the American taxpayers are not on the hook of having any more gas tax dollars shifted away from other important highway infrastructure projects. 
   Again, there is no cap on the Federal funding share for the project. In my view, a federal cap would help ensure the project managers reign in their run-away costs and project overruns because they will not be able to expect the rest of the nation's highway dollars to be funneled into their project. 
   This amendment is fair, it is based on what the Secretary of DOT has promised, and it is what is already in the works. Let's help encourage the timely resolution of this important matter so that the needed continuation of construction of the Central Artery/Tunnel project is not further impeded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the managers of the Transportation Appropriations bill for accepting my amendment that would prohibit the Department of Transportation from making any airport grant to the Los Angeles International Airport until the Federal Aviation Administration concludes an investigation into illegal revenue diversion at the airport. The exception to this prohibition would be if such grants were required to ensure public safety. The investigation at issue here has been going on for more than five years without resolution, and American taxpayers deserve to know whether their money has been used for illegal purposes. 
   The investigation of revenue diversion about which I am concerned involves the City of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles International Airport, LAX. Unfortunately, this airport has served as the poster child for the problem of illegal revenue diversion for as long as I care to remember. In this case, a complaint was filed with the FAA in 1995 about the transfer of $59 million from LAX to the city. Despite the fact that the DOT's Office of Inspector General has periodically contacted the FAA to inquire about the status of a decision by the FAA on the complaint, no decision has been forthcoming. As the Inspector General stated in a recent memo to the FAA on this subject, 5 years should be more than sufficient time for the FAA to consider the facts in the case and render a decision. 
   If there is no objection, I ask unanimous consent to print the Inspector General's memo in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It is with a deep sense of frustration that I am compelled to act on this matter. As many of my colleagues know, I have been fighting against the illegal diversion of airport revenues for purposes that do not serve the aviation system. In fact, four years ago I spearheaded the legislative effort in the Senate to strengthen the laws against such revenue diversions. 
   Because we have a national air transportation system with considerable federal investment and oversight, funded in large part by the users of the system, it is critical that airports or the bodies that control them do not use monies for non-airport purposes. We cannot allow airports to receive federal grant dollars on the one hand, and spend other airport revenues for non-aviation purposes. This type of shell game results in the misuse of the underlying grant. That is one of the principal reasons there are laws against diversions of airport revenues. Unfortunately, many cities that control airports see them as sources of cash that can be tapped for popular purposes. 
   Another reason that revenue diversion is harmful is that our Nation's airports are meant to be self-sustaining. By keeping monies generated by airports at those airports, we ensure that an important part of the national transportation system is kept strong. If airports are used to generate cash for local jurisdictions, the airport itself will suffer from the loss of resources. Even worse, air travelers will be effectively double taxed--once through federal aviation excise taxes, and a second time through the higher air fares that airlines will charge when their costs of maintaining the airport go up. 
   I stress that I am not advocating a specific result in this matter, and I trust that whatever decision or course of action the FAA may take will be made in the best interests of the country. In that vein, my amendment would allow grants to be made once the investigation is concluded, even if the determination is made that no action is necessary. 
   Again, I seek no preferential treatment for any of the parties in this matter. I desire only that this investigation be conducted appropriately, fairly, and in a timely manner. The delays that have occurred so far are just not acceptable. 
   Again, I thank my colleagues for accepting my amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I wish to express my concerns over a provision included in this legislation that would effectively prevent the Department of Transportation (DOT) from continuing its work to fulfill a statutory directive to revise its regulations that limits the driving and duty time of truck and bus drivers. 
   The federal hours of service regulations were established in 1937. Yet, despite the vast technological advancements and dramatic changes in the motor carrier industry, those rules have remained largely unchanged after more than 60 years. 
   Due to the growing safety concerns stemming from truck driver fatigue and other factors, the National Transportation Safety Board has repeatedly called for the Department to develop new hours of service rules that reflect current research on truck and bus driver fatigue. Further, the ICC Termination Act of 1995 required the department to issue an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) addressing motor carrier hours-of-service regulations by March 1996 and a final rule by March 1999. 
   Unfortunately, the Department failed to meet the time frames as required under the law. The ANPRM was not  issued until November 1996. It wasn't until April of this year that the Notice of Proposed rule was issued--a proposal not embraced by industry or safety advocates. 
   As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, which has jurisdiction over most federal transportation policy, I believe it critical to allow and actually require the Department to continue its work to develop sound new rules governing motor carrier operators. I fully recognize the DOT's regulatory proposal is not acceptable in its current form. Moreover, the public needs sufficient time to analyze the proposal and the Department must clearly evaluate and understand its implications before a final rule can be issued. But the Appropriations Committee approach which prevents the DOT from doing anything in this area is simply wrong. 
   Section 335 of the Transportation Appropriations bill would prohibit DOT's Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) from using any funds to ``consider or adopt any proposed rule'' contained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) issued on April 24, 2000 or to ``consider or adopt'' any ``similar'' rule. 
   I will not and am not defending the DOT's regulatory proposal. But I do not think that preventing any further work in this area is sound judgement on our part. If the provision in this bill is allowed to stand in conference, it will effectively prevent any changes to the more than 60-year-old truck driver rules. 
   We must urge the DOT to move forward with reasoned regulations in lieu of the depression era regulations that today continue to dominate a technologically driven industry. The safety of the traveling public is at stake. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. For how long? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield 2 minutes to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. How long does the Senator from Oregon need? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Oregon, followed by 2 minutes to the Senator from Massachusetts, and then those of us on the beleaguered majority will have our say. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield the Senator 30 more seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I appreciate both my friend from Oregon and my friend from Massachusetts for their work on this bill. I appreciate their comments. It is a great pleasure to work with both of them on the Commerce Committee. 
   I think sometimes it is worthy of note, in these days of tension, that on the Commerce Committee we have a great habit of working in a bipartisan fashion. I would argue that no bill that I know of has been reported out of our committee that was not a bipartisan effort. No bill has been reported out, that I know of in the years that I have been the chairman, that was strictly along party lines. 
   Mr. President, tonight the Senate considers the conference report for S. 761, the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act. Before I summarize the bill, I want to note for the RECORD the importance of this measure. 
   The bipartisan legislation would be a significant achievement for this Congress and the American people. Today in America we are in the midst of a phenomenal transformation from the industrial age to the information age. 
   Even as we speak, Americans are on the Internet, browsing, researching, and experiencing in ever-greater numbers. 
   They are also buying. In fact, electronic commerce is one of the principle engines driving our Nation's unprecedented economic growth. For example, Forrester Research has estimated that consumer spending online will total $185 billion by 2003. During this past holiday season alone, online merchants transacted an estimated $5-7 billion dollars worth of commerce--a 300% increase in business from 1998. 
   But one great barrier to the continued growth of Internet commerce is the lack of consistent, national rules governing the use of electronic signatures. A majority of States have enacted electronic authentication laws, but no two of these laws are the same. This inconsistency deters businesses and consumers from using electronic signature technologies to authorize contracts or transactions. 
   This bipartisan legislation can eliminate this unnecessary barrier to the growth of electronic commerce by providing consistent, fair rules governing electronic signatures and records. 
   This bill will do the following: 
   It would ensure that consistent rules for validating electronic signatures and transactions apply throughout the country. Thus providing industry with the legal certainty needed to grow electronic commerce. 
   It empowers businesses to replace expensive warehouses full of awkward and irreplaceable paper records with electronic records that are easily searched or duplicated. Moreover,  State and Federal agencies are prohibited from requiring a business to keep paper records except under extreme circumstances--where they can show a compelling government interest. To prevent abuses of electronic recordkeeping, however, the bill also authorizes regulatory agencies to define document integrity standards that are necessary to insure against fraud. 
   It would also ensure that private commercial actors get to choose the type of electronic signatures that they want to use. This will ensure that the free market--not government bureaucrats--will determine which technologies succeed. To that end, the legislation also prohibits States or Federal agencies from according ``greater legal status or effect'' to one specific technology. 
   And this bill recognizes that without consumer confidence, the Internet can never reach its full potential. Thus, this bill empowers consumers to conduct transactions or receive records electronically without foregoing the benefits of State consumer disclosure requirements. 
   Specifically, the bill would provide that when consumers choose to conduct transactions or receive records electronically, electronic records can satisfy laws requiring a written consumer disclosure if: consumers have been given a statement explaining what records they are agreeing to receive electronically, the procedures for withdrawing consent, and any relevant fees, and consumers consent, or confirm consent electronically, in a manner that reasonably demonstrates that they can actually access the information. 
   The goal of these consumer protection provisions is basic fairness. To that end, if a business changes hardware or software requirements in a way that precludes the consumer from accessing or retaining the records, the consumer can withdraw consent--without a fee. 
   But the bill also ensures that these consumer protections do not become unduly burdensome as technology advances. Thus, for example, the bill provides that a Federal regulatory agency can exempt categories of records from the consumer consent provisions if this would eliminate a substantial burden on e-commerce without jeopardizing consumers. 
   I also note that the bill directs the Secretary of Commerce and the Federal Trade Commission to report to Congress on the benefits and burdens of the bill's consumer protection provisions. It also directs the Secretary of Commerce to report to Congress within 12 months on the effectiveness of delivering consumer notices via email. 
   This is important legislation, and my colleague from Michigan, Senator ABRAHAM, is to be commended for his foresight in introducing this legislation. He is responsible for the formulation of it. He has shepherded it through for many months. I commend him for his work on this legislation. It is safe to say this legislation and conference report would not be here today if not for the efforts of Senator ABRAHAM. I also commend Senators STEVENS, BURNS, WYDEN, LEAHY, HOLLINGS and SARBANES for their commitment to bipartisan agreement on the critical issues raised by this legislation. And, I thank Chairman BLILEY and ranking member DINGELL in the House, for their dedication and leadership on this issue. 
   Reaching a bipartisan agreement on the issues raised by this legislation has not been easy. In fact, the conferees to this bill have spent months considered the often-conflicting views of various industries, consumer protection groups, State governments and federal agencies. 
   Needless to say, the bill that emerged from this broad and contentious process had to try to strike a fair balance between the often-conflicting interests of these groups. As a result, some factions may have had doubts about the bill because they thought that a narrower or partisan legislative process might have produced a bill more slanted towards their narrow interests. 
   But that sort of thinking is short-sighted and fatally flawed: Where this legislation is concerned, a narrow or partisan approach would have jeopardized the growth of electronic commerce. This would have harmed businesses, consumers and the national economy--including the same special interests that a narrower approach might have sought to favor. 
   We must recognize that this bill represents one step in the continuing--and unfinished--process of integrating electronic transactions and the Internet into the mainstream of American commerce. This process of integration must continue if we are to continue to enjoy the unprecedented economic growth that e-commerce and technology have helped bring to this country. 
   But electronic commerce cannot continue to grow and develop without broad support from consumers, businesses and governments. Consumers will not support electronic commerce if they discover that electronic transactions strip them of traditional protections. 
   Nor will businesses support electronic commerce if they cannot realize the cost savings it offers. Finally, governments may not enact laws supporting electronic commerce should such transactions strip their citizens of rights that they have previously enjoyed. 
   Electronic signatures legislation must, therefore, balance the interests of these various groups without unduly favoring any of them: it must give electronic commerce the certainty it needs to grow while preserving the consumer protections that States have chosen to apply in paper-based commercial transactions. 
   The broad and bipartisan support enjoyed by this legislation is the surest sign that it has achieved its most important objective: It has struck a fair balance between competing interests that will ensure continued broad support for the growth of electronic commerce. 
   Mr. President, the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act is a positive, confidence-creating tool that will allow the Internet to continue to develop towards its full potential as a conduit for information, communication and commerce. It will enable businesses and consumers alike to rely on digital signatures regardless of their physical location. Uniform standards for digital signatures will decrease costs while increasing certainty and consumer confidence. The value of these public benefits should not be underestimated. 
   In closing, I want again to thank Chairman BLILEY, and Ranking Member DINGELL in the House for all of their work. In the Senate, I note the hard work of the ranking member of the committee, Mr. HOLLINGS, Senator WYDEN, and others. Without their efforts this bill would not be before us today. I especially, again, recognize the incredible job done by Senator ABRAHAM, the original sponsor of the legislation, the original shepherd, the person who played a key and vital role in the formulation of these final agreements. 
   Given the importance of these issues to consumers, businesses and our global economy, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my list of add-ons, increases, and earmarks to the fiscal year 2001 Defense appropriations bill be printed in the RECORD.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably nomination lists which were printed in the RECORDS of the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000613</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise once again to address the issue of wasteful spending in appropriations measures, in this case the bill funding the Department of Defense. A careful review of this bill reveals that the obvious deleterious implications of pork-barrel spending on our national defense continue to be ignored by Congress. I find it absolutely unconscionable that I have had to fight so hard to secure $6 million per year to eliminate the food stamp Army while the defense appropriations bill before us today includes over $4 billion in wasteful, unnecessary spending that was not included in the Pentagon's budget request and, in most instances, is not reflected in the ever-expanding unfunded requirements lists. 
   In point of fact, it would appear from this bill that there is no sense of propriety at all when it comes to spending the taxpayers money. With the armed forces stretched thin as a result of 15 years of declining budgets while deployments have expanded exponentially, how can we stand before the public with a collective straight face when we pass a budget funding those very same armed forces that includes language ``urging'' the Secretary of Defense ``to take steps to increase the Department's use of cranberry products in the diet of on-base personnel and troops in the field.'' ``Such purchases,'' the language goes on to say, ``should prioritize cranberry products with high cranberry content such as fresh cranberries, cranberry sauces and jellies, and concentrate and juice with over 25 percent cranberry content.'' 
   Mr. President, what heretofore shall be referred to as ``the cranberry incident'' must be an attempt at humor on someone's part. When I read through a defense spending bill, I see hundreds of millions of dollars earmarked for such programs and activities as the development of a small aortic catheter, marijuana eradication inside the United States, and the recovery of Civil War vessels on the bottom of Lake Champlain. I see every single year money earmarked for the Brown Tree Snake. I see a list of unrequested programs added to the budget that includes such items as the Alaska Federal Health Care Network, the Hawaii Federal Health Care Network, the Pacific Islands Health Care Referral Program, the Pacific Missile Range Facility, Fort Wainwright utilidors, and Fort Greely runway repairs. Was the $300  million in the budget for the Pearl Harbor shipyard so inadequate that an additional $24 million had to be added, four times the amount needed to remove military families from the rolls of those eligible for food stamps? 
   Fifteen million dollars was added for the Maui Space Surveillance System--$15 million--to improve our ability to track asteroids. I do not intend to minimize the importance of such 
   activities, but only the cast of Star Trek could conceivably have looked at a list of military funding shortfalls and concluded that a total of $19 million had to be in the fiscal year 2001 budget for this purpose. And whether $9.5 million should be earmarked for the West Virginia National Guard is, of course, open to question. 
   Mr. President, I voted against the defense authorization bill in committee because of my frustration at that measure's failure to include vital quality of life initiatives for our active duty military--initiatives that were thankfully accepted when the bill moved to the Floor. And that bill included less than the companion appropriations bill does in unneeded and wasteful spending. I dislike the annual earmarks for hyperspectral research in the authorization bill as much as the ones in the appropriations measure, and the authorizers similarly demonstrate an absence of fiscal restraint in throwing money at chem-bio detectors of questionable merit, and the $9 million in the authorization bill for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory is every bit as deserving of skepticism as the money in the appropriations bill for the aforementioned Maui program, but, on the whole, the authorizers adhered more closely to the unfunded requirements lists than did the appropriators, who seem to have missed the idea. 
   Mention should also be made of the growing corruption of the integrity of the process by which the budget request and the unfunded priority lists are assembled. To the extent that repeated efforts at shining a light on pervasive and damaging pork-barrel spending has borne fruit, it further cannot be denied that the problem, to a certain degree, has merely been pushed underground. Like the speakeasies and bathtub gin of an earlier era, the insatiable appetite in Congress for pork has been increasingly reflected in the amount of political pressure placed on the services to include unneeded projects in the budget request and on the unfunded priorities lists. The integrity of the budget process is under increasing assault, and the national defense cannot help but suffer for our weakness for pork. 
   Mr. President, I look forward to the day when my appearances on the Senate floor for the purpose of deriding pork-barrel spending are no longer necessary. There have been successes along the way, but much more needs to be done. There is $4 billion in unrequested programs in the defense appropriations bill. Combine what that $4 billion could buy with the savings that could be accrued through additional base closings and more cost-effective business practices and the problems of our armed forces, be they in terms of force structure or modernization, could be more assuredly addressed. The public demands and expects better of us. It remains my hope that they will one day witness a more responsible budget process. For now, unfortunately, they are more likely to witness errant asteroids shooting through the skies like tax dollars through the appropriations process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing three amendments to S. 2549, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2001. The first amendment will provide more pay for mid-career enlisted service members. The second amendment will authorize survivor benefit improvements for the families of service members. The third amendment will improve benefits for members of the National Guard and Reservists. 
   Last year, I was pleased to see military pay table reform enacted into law. Our servicemembers will receive a much needed pay raise next month, and I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who voted for this legislation. 
   However, there was one group of servicemembers that was under-represented in last year's pay table reform. Our E-5s, E-6s and E-7s have seen their pay erode in comparison to other pay grades. With our severe recruitment and retention issues still looming, we must adequately compensate our mid-grade enlisted servicemembers who are critical to leading the junior enlisted force. 
   We have significantly underpaid these enlisted members since the advent of the All-Volunteer Force. The value of their pay, compared to that of a private/seaman/airman, has dropped 50% since the all volunteer force was enacted by Congress. 
   The 1990s placed undue burdens on our career NCOs. Their expansion of duties during the drawdown came with little or no pay incentives, resulting in the departure of mid-grade NCOs and Petty Officers from the uniformed services. 
   On promotion to grades E-5 through E-8, the gap between military and civilian pay begins to widen. Last year's pay table reform, which helped to alleviate this gap, increased the pay of mid-grade officers, but is lacking for the mid-grade enlisted force. 
   My amendment would alleviate this inequity by increasing the pay for E-5s, E-6s and E-7s to the same level as those of officers with similar lengths of service. The amendment is estimated to cost approximately $200-300 million a year and is similar to legislation recently introduced in the House. 
   My second amendment would provide low-cost survivor benefit plan improvements for the survivors of active duty personnel who die in the line of duty. Under current SBP rules, only survivors of retired members or those of active duty members who have greater than 20 years of service are eligible for SBP. 
   My amendment, at an estimated cost of only $800 thousand in FY01 and $12.6 million over 5 years, would extend SBP coverage to all survivors of members who die on active duty with the annuities calculated as if the member had been retired with a 100% disability on the date of death. 
   This is an inexpensive amendment that would greatly help the survivors of our courageous servicemembers who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the defense of our country. 
   The second part of this amendment is a no-cost initiative that would allow the spouses and children of active duty personnel to participate in the Serviceman Group Life Insurance Program. 
   Junior servicemembers can rarely afford commercial insurance on their spouses and children, and the unexpected loss of their spouses--who in many cases are the primary care givers of their children--places an extreme strain on the service members' ability to properly take care of their families. 
   Premiums for this insurance would be significantly lower than comparable life insurance programs, because the Serviceman Group Life Insurance Program is composed of a consortium of insurance companies. This amendment would simply authorize spouses to buy up to 50% of the servicemember benefits--a maximum of $100,000 in coverage, and each dependent child could be covered for up to $10,000. 
   The final amendment I have offered today increases benefits for the Total Force--members of the National Guard and the Reserve Components. The National Guard and Reserves have become a larger percentage of the Total Force and are essential partners in a wide range of military operations. Due to the high operating tempo demands on the active component, the Reserve components are being called upon more frequently and for longer periods than ever before. We must stop treating them like a ``second class'' force. 
   This amendment will specifically authorize five improvements for the National Guard and Reserves. First, it will urge through a sense of Congress that the President should adequately request in the DoD budget the funds necessary to modernize these forces, and support their training and readiness accounts to ensure that the Total Force can continue to support our National Military Strategy. 
   Second, this amendment will authorize National Guard and reserve servicemembers to travel for duty or training on a space-required basis on military airlift between the servicemember's home of record and their place of duty. 
   Third, it will authorize National Guard and reserve servicemembers who travel more than 50 miles from their home of record to attend their drills to be able to stay at Bachelor Quarters on military installations. 
   Fourth, it will increase from 75 to 90 the maximum number of reserve retirement points that may be credited in a year for reserve service. 
   Finally, it will authorize legal/JAG services be extended for up to twice the length of period of military service after active duty recall for National Guard and reserve servicemembers to handle issues or problems under the Sailor and Soldier Act. 
   In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the importance of enacting meaningful improvements for our servicemembers; our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, their families and their survivors. They risk their lives to defend our shores and preserve democracy and we can not thank them enough for their service. But we can pay them more, improve their benefits to their survivors, and support the Total Force in a similar manner as the active forces. Our servicemembers past, present, and future need these improvements, and these three amendments are just one step we can take to show our support and improve the quality of life for our servicemembers and their families. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield to no one in my concern for the men and women in the military in defense of this Nation. I yield to no one in this body. 
   I deeply regret that the distinguished chairman of the committee would be part of this red herring which has been raised so Members on both sides of the aisle who oppose disclosure, who have publicly stated time after time they are in favor of full disclosure--I see the Senator from Colorado on the floor. Senator WAYNE ALLARD stated, in reference to campaign finance reform:  
   I strongly believe that sunshine is the best disinfectant.  
   That is from the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, page 145, Monday, October 18, 1999. He will now be on the floor, I believe, in trying to cover up for that statement. I tell you what, I say to the distinguished chairman. Right now I will ask him to agree to a unanimous consent agreement--right now--that if this provision causes the House, the other body, to blue-slip this, on which they have no grounds to do so, the next appropriate vehicle that the Parliamentarian views is appropriate, this amendment will be made part of. I ask unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thought the Senator from Virginia would object. So I will ask another unanimous consent agreement, that in case this amendment does cause it to be blue-slipped, it be in order on the next appropriate vehicle, as determined by the Parliamentarian, that a vote be held on this amendment with no second-degree amendments. I ask unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I have the floor, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN.. I will not yield to the Senator from Colorado until I have finished my statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator from Arizona has the floor. 
   The Senator from Colorado said, on October 18, 1999:  
   I strongly believe that sunshine is the best disinfectant.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Concerning campaign finance reform. So if the Senator from Colorado and the Senator from Virginia are basing their objections to this amendment on the grounds that it would harm the Defense authorization bill, then they should have no objection--no objection--to the unanimous consent agreement that this amendment be placed on the next appropriate vehicle by the Parliamentarian. 
   But instead, the Senator from Virginia is objecting--I take it the Senator from Colorado would object--clearly revealing that the true intentions here have a lot more to do with this amendment than with the defense of this Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. There are eight types of amendments that have been offered in the Senate in the past that were returned by the House after the House decided that the Senate's action was an infringement on the House's constitutional privilege with respect to originating revenue legislation. 
   In each of the eight noted examples in the precedents, it is clear that the Senate was seeking to raise revenue of one sort or another, from increasing postal rates to raising bonds or taxing fuel. 
   This amendment in no way raises any revenue nor does it change in any way the amount of revenue collected by the Treasury pursuant to the Tax Code. It is simply a clarification in what information must be disclosed by entities seeking to claim status under section 527 of the Tax Code. 
   I say to my friend from Virginia, the American people will see through this. The American people will understand what is being done here--an effort to contravene what literally every Member of this body has said, that we need full disclosure of people who donate to American political campaigns. And if that were not the reason--if that were not the reason--then the Senator from Virginia and the Senator from Colorado would agree to my unanimous consent agreement, which I repeat. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that on the next appropriate vehicle that is viewed appropriate by the Parliamentarian, this amendment be made in order for an up-or-down vote with no second-degree amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. We have just totally disclosed what this is all about. This is not about the defense of the Nation. This is a defense of a corrupt system which, in the view of objective observers, has made a mockery of existing campaign finance laws, which has caused Americans to become alienated from the system. 
   We were worried about Chinese money in the 1996 elections. Under the  present system of 527, Chinese money, drug money, Mafia money, anybody's money can come into American political campaigns, and there is no reason to disclose it. 
   So now here we are with 100 Members of this Senate all saying we need full disclosure, using a constitutional facade which is not correct as a reason to vote against this amendment and vote it down. 
   I say again, for the third time, if it is a constitutional objection, and that objection is legitimate, then the Senator from Virginia and the Senator from Colorado have no reason to object to this amendment being made part of the next appropriate vehicle which is deemed appropriate by the Parliamentarian. And by so objecting to that unanimous consent agreement, their defense or their argument that somehow we are harming the Defense authorization bill does not have credibility. 
   Mr. President, I do not want to yield all the time. I would be glad to engage in this. But I wondered what would happen last night after we proposed this amendment for full disclosure. I wondered. I wondered what the defense against cleaning up at least to some degree, allowing the American people to know who are contributing to American political campaigns in unprecedented amounts of money, would be. 
   I repeat, one more time, I yield to no one in this body as to my advocacy for our Nation's defense and the men and women in the military. But if we want to give these men and women in the military confidence in their Government, we should have fully disclosed who it is that contributes to the political campaigns. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask what force of law that sense-of-the-Senate amendment will have and what the prospects are that these organizations that are currently engaged in these activities will be motivated by a sense-of-the-Senate amendment? 
   Also, will the Senator from Virginia be willing to add to that sense-of-the-Senate amendment that on the next appropriate vehicle, as deemed appropriate by the Parliamentarian, the McCain-Feingold-Lieberman amendment be made in order for a vote with no second-degree amendments? 
   I ask that question because we clearly know that, without the force of law, there is no way these people are going to comply with a sense-of-the-Senate amendment. 
   I hope the Senator, to give it any meaning whatsoever, will at least have that same sense-of-the-Senate amendment state unequivocally that we intend to enact this sense-of-the-Senate amendment into law, because that is the only way we can force these people to comply. I am sure the Senator from Virginia understands and appreciates that. 
   My question is, Will the Senator be willing to modify his sense-of-the-Senate amendment to make it in order  that on the next appropriate vehicle, as deemed by the Parliamentarian, there will be an up-or-down vote on the McCain-Feingold-Lieberman amendment without any intervening amendments or second-degree amendments? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield myself 30 seconds. The majority leader is well known for his advocacy for campaign finance reform. I doubt seriously if anyone believes that the Senator from Virginia, by propounding a sense-of-the-Senate amendment that is not binding legally in any way and will disappear in the mist of time as a myriad of other sense-of-the Senate amendments have--I think it is time the Senator from Virginia got candid with this body. The Senator from Virginia should either come on board and stop this egregious violation of everything in which we believe or state his opposition to it. Please do not think anyone--anyone--will believe that a sense-of-the-Senate amendment will have any impact on the present practices which most observers in America believe are corrupt. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Can I engage the Senator for 30 seconds? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, apparently the Senator from Pennsylvania does not agree with the Bush campaign, in which, according to an AP story, Bush says:  
   Plenty of left-leaning groups led by the AFL-CIO help Democrats.  
   The AP goes on to say:  
   So far for Gore, the Sierra Club, an environmental group and one of the first to create a 527 spin-off, is in the midst of an $8 million ad campaign aiding Democrats running for Congress and attacking Bush on the environment.  
   I don't know where the Senator from Pennsylvania has been, but I will be glad to show him ample testimony that this comes from both the left and right equally. So the evidence is obviously contrary to that. 
   I would also hope that the Senator from Pennsylvania would join the Senator from Wisconsin and me where the next amendment would be one that included all organizations. 
   Would the Senator from Wisconsin be willing to do that as well? The fact is, this is most egregious, because there is no reporting whatsoever in this newfound cornucopia, which would allow the Mafia, drug money, Chinese money, any other kind of money, to come into American political campaigns undisclosed. If that is what the Senator from Pennsylvania believes is honesty, then I plead guilty. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will quote from the Washington Post on June 4, this Sunday:  
   Both parties use these section 527 committees. Failure to disclose is the insidious, ultimate corruption of a political system in which offices, if not the officeholders themselves, are increasingly bought. At least they could vote for sunshine, or is the truth too embarrassing for either donors or recipients?  
   Mr. President, we have heard some very interesting arguments and discussions about whether it is appropriate, as to whether it favors one side or another. There isn't an American who is well informed who does not know that this system has lurched completely out of control, when people are allowed to engage in the political system and give unlimited amounts of money and have it undisclosed. 
   The reason this is on this bill, I say to the chairman of the Armed Services  Committee, is that we have been unable to propose an amendment on any bill so far. 
   This has been the first opportunity. I regret doing so. But I was willing to enter into a time agreement to get this done. I must tell my friend we will continue on this issue until we resolve the objections that may exist concerning it. It is too important. If we are concerned about these men and women in the military--and he and I share that concern--then we should also be concerned about giving them the kind of Government and political system they can be proud of. Today, if they are informed about it, they are ashamed. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the nation has been patiently waiting for far too long for Congress to pass a Patients' Bill of Rights that will grant American families enrolled in health maintenance organizations (HMOs) the health care protections they deserve, including the right to remedy insurance disputes through the courts if all other means are exhausted. 
   For far too long, achievement of this vital reform has been frustrated by special interest gridlock, principally the trial lawyers who insist on the ability to sue everyone for everything, and the insurance companies who simply want to protect their bottom line, even at the expense of fairness. Both sides hope to continue affecting their agenda with the ``soft money'' contributions they hand over to the political parties, while neither represents the hopes, expectations and best interests of the American people. 
   Today's debate is further evidence of how politicized this issue has become. Once again this debate is being governed by special interests and partisan politics. This is no longer a debate about how we can work together in the best interest of the American people. Nor is this a debate about providing affordable access to quality health care for all Americans. 
   Instead it is a contest--a contest between the political parties and special interests. This is a contest between the interests of trial lawyers versus the interests of insurance companies. This is a contest that no one not Republicans, not Democrats, certainly not the American people wins, except, of course, the special interests who are only concerned about their financial well-being, rather than the physical or financial well-being of every American. It is a shame that this body is so controlled by special interests that we cannot even put the health of the American people ahead of politics. 
    Under today's medical system too many Americans feel powerless when faced with a health care crisis in their personal life. Many feel as if important, life-altering decisions are being micro-managed by business people rather than medical professionals, and too many Americans believe they have no access to quality care or cannot receive the necessary medical treatment recommended by their personal physician. 
   Many Americans work hard and live on strict budgets so they can afford health insurance coverage for their family. Then, the moment they need health care, they are confronted with obstacles limiting which services are available to them: confronted by frustrating bureaucratic hoops; and confronted by health plans that provide little, if any, opportunity for patients to redress grievances.  
   While I appreciate the important contributions of managed care, we must protect the rights of patients in our nation's health care system. Too many Americans feel trapped in a system which does not put their health care needs first. They believe that HMOs value a paper dollar more than they do a human life. It is time for us to finally help these fine Americans and begin working together to get safe, quality health care for Americans. 
   As my colleagues know, last summer I reluctantly voted for the Senate version of the Patients Bill of Rights. At that time I made it known that my vote for passage was contingent on a strong conference agreement with a higher standard for protecting the needs of patients than those contained in the Senate bill. I supported the Senate bill because it was important to move forward and send legislation for strengthening in conference with the House. It was my strong hope that the House would pass stronger, more reasonable health care reform similar to the Norwood/Dingell legislation that honestly puts the needs of patients first. Then we could work together for a practical and fair compromise during conference. 
   Mr. President, I am voting today in support of the proposed Norwood/Dingell amendment before the Senate because I share the frustration of millions of Americans who are waiting for the conference to begin making substantial efforts towards reaching a viable agreement providing patient protections. This conference has had more than four months to work on reaching an agreement and yet they are not even close to finding a solution. And I am concerned that once again, partisan politics and special interests are blocking us from enacting meaningful health care reform for our constituents. 
   It is time for all of us to finally put aside partisanship and the influence of special interests to work together for what is needed and wanted by our constituents-safe, quality, affordable health care. This is too important an issue to allow the influence of special interests to prevent us from doing what is right for all Americans. 
   While I am supporting this amendment I would like to make clear that I believe that there is still work that must be done in conference before it is enacted into law. I support the intentions of the Norwood/Dingell bill but there are areas that need to be strengthened and improved before it becomes law, including the liability provisions. Real patient protection must permit individuals to resolve insurance disputes through the courts but it must also place common sense limits on excessive non-economic damage awards and ban punitive judgements that make health care more costly. This must be structured in a manner that does not encourage frivolous law suits, unnecessarily make health insurance more costly or make employers vulnerable for health care decisions they are not making. 
   In addition, I do not support extending U.S. Customs Service user fees to pay for this proposal. Before agreeing to this amendment I was assured that the extension of the user fees was merely a tactical move to help prevent this amendment from being defeated by partisan parliamentary procedures. I have been assured that if this amendment were to pass that an alternate means of paying for it--one that does not undermine Customs operations or constrain international commerce--would be incorporated. It is important that US Customs continue having adequate funding for conducting their programs including implementing a new automation system for reducing backlogs at ports of entry to help facilitate the dramatic expansion of commerce that has helped fuel our strong economy. Let me reiterate in no way does my vote for strong patient protections in any way provide an endorsement for extending user fees and placing a further burden on businesses and our economy. 
   It is my strong hope that today's vote will provide the impetus for the conference to finally work together on finding a viable and real solution for providing Americans with the health care protections they deserve. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Senator from Wisconsin has 1 minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, just to repeat, this amendment would mandate disclosure of all contributors to, and expenditures by, 527 organizations--a new phenomenon in American politics, with unlimited amounts of money from any source. China, the Mafia, and drug dealers can be part of our political campaigns, and we will never know who they are. 
   It affects both parties and all ideologies. For the benefit of my friends on this side of the aisle, it was the Sierra Club that first began the 527 new gimmick example of corruption in American politics. 
   It will not harm the defense bill. If the defense bill is blue-slipped, I will be the first to say that bill, when it comes back, should have no amendments on it, and I would work as hard as I can to get it done. 
   Please, do not believe that the defense bill would be harmed or blue-slipped. The fact is, every Member on both sides of the aisle of this body has said they are for full disclosure. Now we are going to find out whether we are for disclosure or we will continue to allow the corruption of American politics. 
   I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-20000608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for pursuing this issue. I would like to broaden it as well. I think it is a fair agreement. I would like to try to move forward, meanwhile, having adopted this amendment, and the President to sign the bill. 
   I thank the majority leader and the Democratic leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to voice my support for the need for responsible military health care reform. 
   There is a critical need for real military health care reform. I am concerned that if this amendment passes today, that this body, as well as the lower chamber, will wipe their hands of this problem and move on to other issues. Our servicemembers past, present, and future deserve a world class military health care delivery system, and the Congress should accept no less. 
   When the defense bill before us today came out of committee, I voted against it for several reasons. One of the most pressing reasons was that the health care legislation included in the defense authorization bill did not address the broken ``promise'' of lifetime medical care, especially for those over age 65. Voting for its passage would have been an abrogation of my responsibility as a Senator to let our declining military health care system continue without a responsible legislative remedy. 
   One of the areas of greatest concern among military retirees and their families is the ``broken promise'' of lifetime medical care, especially for those over age 65. While the Committee included some key health care provisions, they failed to meet what I think is the most important requirement, the restoration of this broken promise. 
   This week, we recognize the anniversary of the invasion of the European continent to free hundreds of millions of people from the grasp of a tyrannical dictator. Our servicemembers have served courageously in Korea, Vietnam, the Persian Gulf, and other locations throughout the world. We owe our servicemembers, past, present, and future a health care delivery system that adequately supports those who have served with honor and courage throughout the years. 
   Today, our military health care delivery system is facing some very difficult and costly challenges. One of these is how best to reconfigure the military health care delivery system so that it might continue to meet its military readiness and peace-time obligations at a time of continuous change for the armed forces. In the process of deciding how to proceed, I have met with and heard from many military family members, veterans and military retirees from around the country. I have been inundated with suggestions for reform. 
   In every meeting and in every letter, I encountered retired service men and women who have problems with every aspect of the military medical care system--with long waiting periods, with access to the right kind of care, with access to needed pharmaceutical drugs, and with the broken promise of lifetime health care for military retirees and their spouses. I heard these  concerns expressed as I have traveled across the United States over the past year. I was proud to introduce S. 2013, the Honoring Health Care Commitments to Service Members Past 
   and Present Act of 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment I propose today is one which we have attempted on several occasions in the past. It authorizes two rounds of U.S. military installation realignments and closures to occur in the years 2003 and 2005--in other words, BRAC, or Base Realignment and Closure. 
   I am pleased to join Senators LEVIN, ROBB, VOINOVICH, REED, DEWINE, and WYDEN as cosponsors. 
   We have heard for the last several years of the severe problems that exist in the military. We addressed one of those problems, food stamps, earlier in the proceedings on this legislation. We have heard in the Senate Armed Services Committee repeated testimony of plunging readiness and modernization programs that are decades behind schedule and quality-of-life deficiencies so great that we can't retain or recruit quality personnel necessary to defend this Nation's vital national security interests. 
   Statistics are sometimes numbing but sometimes interesting also. The Air Force will be 2,000 pilots short by the end of next year, the Navy SEALS are losing two-thirds of their officer corps, and the Army is struggling to retain its captains. In the last few weeks, there was a well publicized study conducted by the Army which shows an unprecedented exodus of Army officers at the rank of captain from the U.S. Army. 
   The consequences of losing the majority of your junior officers at that rank are indeed disturbing and even alarming. Equipment is falling in disrepair. The Marine Corps spends more time fixing broken equipment than it does training on it. And the Air Force is discovering that its F-16 fleet is only safe to fly for 75 percent of its original planned service life. The Army is in need of new engines for its entire M-1 tank fleet. 
   Modernization of our military equipment has all but ceased for the very large and risky programs such as the Joint Strike Fighter, Comanche helicopter, and excessively expensive ship and submarine programs of questionable design and questionable requirement. 
   There is no doubt that many of the woes of our military can be addressed in areas other than the budget, but more judicious use of the military by the national command authority and reduced operational tempo will help with personnel retention. 
   Any person in the military will tell you today that our military personnel, both active duty as well as Guard and Reserve forces, are being deployed all too frequently at the expense of their lifestyles, their family lives, and ultimately their desires to continue to serve the country in the uniform of the military. 
   Streamlined training and greater attention to exercise management will result in less strain on our service members and their equipment. But ultimately we must pay for the last 7 years of chronic underfunding of our military. Finding these dollars at a time when we must also carefully attend to the health of our Social Security system and other much needed social benefits will be absolutely difficult. 
   It is against this backdrop that we should acknowledge the absolute requirement to close unneeded military bases. The armed services is carrying the burden of managing and paying for an estimated 23-percent excess infrastructure costing at least $3.6 billion a year. Let me point out again, Mr. President, keeping these bases open is not without significant cost. In fact, about $3.6 billion every year could be saved when these unnecessary bases are ultimately closed. 
   By the year 2003, these costs will grow to a total of over $25 billion. If Congress allows the military to streamline its infrastructure, these costs can be realized as real savings that can be used to address the military's readiness shortfalls. Many have heard strong testimony supporting further BRAC rounds from the service chiefs, all the service Secretaries, and the Secretary of Defense. Potential savings are dramatic. The savings in 1 year alone would more than pay for the proposed personnel pay benefits--including health care, buy over 36 new F-22 strike fighters for the Air Force, fully fund our Nation's ballistic missile defense program, or pay for 75 percent of the next generation aircraft carriers. 
   Savings over the next 4 years are conservatively estimated to reach $25 billion. The annual net savings from previous BRAC rounds have grown from $3 billion in 1998 to $5.6 billion to $7 billion a year by 2001. That is an important statistic because so many of the opponents of a base-closing round argue that money is not only not saved but spent because of the cleanup costs that are associated with base closings. 
   There are two points to be made. One is that these cleanups, although lengthy and difficult sometimes, depending on the type of operations that took place on that military base, have now been completed to a large degree, and the money is being saved. As I mentioned, between $5.6 to $7 billion will be saved next year. Also, it should disturb us if these bases are not cleaned up anyway, whether they are open or closed. It is an expense that probably will continue to grow. To say that we shouldn't close bases because of the cleanup costs then, I guess, using a certain logic, would mean we would want areas that are hazardous to ourselves and our children's health to remain unaddressed. 
   These savings are, as I said, real. They are coming sooner and they are greater than anticipated. 
   The GAO recently noted that in most communities where bases were closed, incomes were actually rising faster and unemployment rates were lower than the national average. In my own home State of Arizona there was great wailing and gnashing of teeth as Williams Air Force Base appeared on the base-closing list several 
   years ago. It is now called Williams Gateway Airport and it is generating sizably more revenue for the community and the State of Arizona than it was when it was a military installation. That is true at bases throughout the Nation. 
   There is a provision in this bill that allows for the no-cost transfer of property from the military to the community in areas affected by closures. This amendment authorizes two additional rounds of base closure in 2003 and 2005. The amendment is similar to that introduced last year except the rounds are 2003 and 2005 instead of 2001 and 2003. Why did we change the date from 2001, which would then obviously mean it would take action well into the next administration? Due to the justifiable mistrust, particularly on this side of  the aisle, about this President's nonpoliticization of the process. There are credible arguments that the last base-closing round, as far as Kelly Air Force Base in Texas and McClellan up in Sacramento, were politicized. 
   Last year, when Senator LEVIN and I and others brought this amendment up, the distinguished chairman of the committee said: There will be immediately ``acting'' in the bowels of the Pentagon to somehow politicize this process. I say to my friend from Virginia, the distinguished chairman of the committee, they won't be acting in the bowels of the Pentagon, at least until the year 2003, under this proposal. 
   So we are talking about an evolution that would not take place. The round would not take place for 3 years, 3 years from now, and then obviously those recommendations would not be implemented until beginning with the final determination of the base-closing commission and approval by the President and the Congress. 
   Additionally, under this proposed legislation, privatization in place would be permitted only when explicitly recommended by the Commission, which I hope would prevent a recurrence of the kind of machinations, whether legitimate or not, that were conducted by the present administration, which has caused so much skepticism about the results of the last Base Closure Commission. 
   Finally, the Secretary of Defense must consider the total cost the final base closure rounds have on the Government, not just cost or savings to the Department of Defense. We can continue to maintain a military infrastructure that we don't need or we can provide the necessary funds to ensure our military can fight and win future wars. Our men and women are deployed and continuing to train and prepare for upcoming deployments, many to active combat regions. They are undermined, increasingly short on critical weapon systems, and are struggling to overcome a multitude of readiness deficiencies. 
   Recently, one of the Army divisions was declared in the lowest category of readiness. It struck home to a lot of us in this body who happen to still revere the great and wonderful Senator from Kansas, Mr. Dole, who was our majority leader, who served and sacrificed in the famous 10th Mountain Division. He, among others, was surprised when a division with that glorious and wonderful history was declared, for all intents and purposes, unfit to be deployed into a combat situation. 
   The cost associated with maintaining excess infrastructure represents real money that is not available for essential programs and for alleviating real defense programs. 
   Earlier this year, the Armed Services Committee met to discuss the need to add critical funds to the defense account for much needed modernization projects. I was amazed that although there were arguments for the need for increased defense spending, no one could see that critical defense reforms such as further BRAC rounds were required. These rounds could provide long-term funding for modernization and readiness programs without risking other key programs. 
   We must finish the job we started by authorizing a new round of base closures. I urge my colleagues to join in support of this amendment and work diligently to put aside politics for what is clearly in the best interests of our military forces in our Nation. 
   We had kind of an unusual occurrence last year in that the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in what was deemed by most observers as a rather unusual move, they testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee that they had significant shortfalls in funding. 
   The committee asked for detailed responses as to what were those shortfalls in funding. The Army came up with some $5.5 billion in unfunded requirements they thought were necessary. This comes from the uniformed heads of the services. The Army needed $5.5 billion for programs ranging from Longbow Apache to night vision goggles, to UH-60 Blackhawk procurement. The list is very detailed and very long: The Navy needed about $5.8 billion; the Marine Corps needed $1.6 billion; the Air Force needed $3.5 billion; the Special Operations Command needed $260 million; the Army National Guard needed $800 million; and the Air National Guard came in with a requirement for $2.4 billion. 
   We are taking strides to improve funding for our military. But when you add all of this up, it comes to a very significant amount of money, about $20 billion, that the military chiefs have submitted in written testimony to the Congress as to the needs of the individual services. 
   I have to be sort of candid. I am not sure we are going to come up with $20 billion that the services need. We are increasing funding, and that is the first time in some years. But I do not see that in the realm of this $20 billion, when you look at the additional costs which are already basically there without us being able to do anything about it--first, the funding for the new fighter aircraft, funding for the additional ships, planes, tanks, et cetera, that will be necessary to replace existing aging equipment and modernize our armed forces. 
   So here is $20 billion the chiefs say they need. I do not see a huge increase of that size, frankly, in the future, as far as the Congress is concerned, nor, at least under this administration, do I see that sizable additional request. 
   Obviously, as I pointed out earlier, it would be a savings of some $25 billion over a period of the next 4 years. The savings are conservatively estimated to reach about $25 billion. I do not want to have any of my colleagues be misled. That would be the case if we had a base-closing commission that declared its decisions today. But if the base-closing commission, in the year 2003, made its decisions, we could save over the following 4 years some $25 billion. I want to make it clear. 
   Yes, there will be initial costs for cleanup of these bases. That is a sad fact--and at that time an unexpected--experience that we had. But I also argue, with the perspective of time, we have found there is now, as a result of the earlier base closings, annual net savings which are growing from $3 billion in 1998 to $5.7 to $7 billion per year by next year. 
   I would be distressed if Yuma Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma were on the base-closing list. I would be distressed if Luke Air Force Base in Phoenix were on the base-closing list. I would be distressed if Davis Mountain Air Force Base in Tucson were on the base-closing list. I see my friend from Nevada here, one of the cosponsors of this amendment. I am sure he would be deeply distressed if Nellis Air Force Base in Reno were on the base-closing list. There is not, I believe, a Senator or very few Senators who would not feel the impact of a base-closing commission. 
   But I challenge the opponents of this amendment to find me one--I say one--credible military expert who resides outside of the Congress of the United States who will not say that we need to have a base-closing commission to decide on the elimination of unneeded infrastructure in the reform of bases that the military does not need. 
   I ask any of us to pick up the phone and call up Gen. Colin Powell; call up Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf; call up Cap Weinberger; call up Dick Cheney; call up Zbigniew Brzezinski; Call up anyone, anyone today, who is a person who has credentials as far as military readiness is concerned, and I think you would be hard pressed to find anything but the overwhelming majority--perhaps 
   not totally but the overwhelming majority of opinion on this issue by credible military experts is that we have excess infrastructure in the form of too many bases which we do not need and which should be closed in order to use those funds for badly needed military requirements. 
   I apologize to this body, to keep going back to the plight of the service men and women in the military today. But we do have service men and women in the military on food stamps. We do have service men and women in the military in my own State residing in barracks that were built during World War II. We do have service men and women in the Marine Corps who are, for example, retreading military vehicle tires so they can get additional money in order to have ammunition with which to practice. 
   The stories go on and on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be glad to yield to the distinguished chairman at any time, including now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Please go ahead. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Again, I thank the chairman for his leadership and the courage he has displayed on a number of occasions on a number of issues. 
   First, I respond to my friend from a practical standpoint. This amendment authorizes a base-closing commission. The President of the United States does not have to appoint the Commissioners and the President of the United States can reject the findings of the Commission. So I do not believe we are forcing the next President of the United States in that respect. 
   My second point is, it is well known the advisers, at least to the party on this side of the aisle, to the person we believe will be the next President of the United States--George Shultz, Brent Scowcroft, Condolleeza Rice, Colin Powell, Robert Zoellick---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Addressing every one of those individuals, if the chairman and I picked up the telephone and said, ``Do you think we should have a base-closing commission?'' they would say yes. They would say yes. 
   I argue, even though I understand and appreciate and sympathize with the position of our nominee for President of the United States not to interfere too much with what goes on in the Congress, I believe he would be very supportive as well. 
   On the other side of the aisle, if it should occur that the nominee from the other side of the aisle were elected President of the United States, the fact is very well known the Vice President of the United States supports a base-closing commission as well and has voted on this floor for the appointment of a base-closing commission. 
   By the way, I want the Record to be very clear that I have the greatest respect and friendship for the Vice President of the United States. 
   It is the decision of the people of this country who will be the next President of the United States. I had respect for the Vice President and his involvement in military issues when he and I served together, as we did, in the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Vice President of the United States, who is the nominee of the other party on the other side of the aisle, is also supportive of and would support a base-closing commission. I believe whoever will be President of the United States supports at this time authorizing further base-closing commissions. I believe the advisers to both individuals also support a base-closing commission, and if that commission were authorized, it still would not require the next President of the United States to act even in the appointment of commissioners, much less accepting the recommendations of that commission. I yield to the Senator from Virginia, if he has any additional comments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I simply conclude by saying I hope we can authorize this. It is important, not only because of the money we save which is critical for defense, but we as a body should understand that it does not enhance our reputation about our concerns about the needs of the military when we refuse to take what is a very logical step, and that is to approve a base closure commission which would make recommendations which could be either accepted or rejected by the President of the United States and rejected by this body if this body, in its wisdom, decided those recommendations were invalid. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield to the Senator from Michigan whatever time he uses. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I send a second-degree amendment to the pending amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I offer this amendment on behalf of myself, Senator FEINGOLD, and Senator LIEBERMAN. 
   This amendment would mandate that the names of contributors to entities operating under section 527 of the Tax Code be disclosed. This amendment is simple. It is straightforward. It would impose no substantial burdens on any entity. And most importantly, it is constitutional and in no way infringes on the free speech of any individual or group. 
   Before I discuss the matter further, I thank my colleagues, Senator LIEBERMAN and Senator FEINGOLD, for all they have done to close this 527 loophole. They have been stalwarts in this effort, and their hard work and dedication deserves note and praise. In fact, Senator LIEBERMAN has separate legislation supported by myself and Senator FEINGOLD on this very issue. 
   On May 18 of this year, USA Today stated:  
   What's happening? Clever lawyers for partisan activists, ideological causes and special interests have invented a new way to channel unlimited money into campaigns and avoid all accountability. Hiding behind the guise of ``issue advocacy'' and an obscure part of the tax law, nameless benefactors with thick bankrolls can donate unlimited sums to entities known as ``section 527 committees,'' beyond the reach of the campaign-reporting laws designed to curb such abuses. 
   If the Chinese Army had discovered this tactic first, its infamous contributions of 1996 would have been quite legal. It wasn't supposed to be this way. Post-Watergate reforms a quarter-century ago required that all donations of $200 and more be publicly reported by name. There would be no more ``hidden gifts'' of $2 million and up like those that helped fuel the illegal activities of Richard Nixon's re-election campaign. At least voters would know where a candidate's political debts lay. 
   But that is not the way the system has evolved. And today no one knows how many anonymous contributors are exploiting the loopholes in the law or how much these loopholes are adding to the swamp of money in politics.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator from New York is correct. I would like to say to the Senator from New York that we are doing this because perhaps we can't sell the whole package; perhaps we can't do the whole thing. This is in no way an indication that Senator FEINGOLD and I or the Senator from New York or the Senator from Connecticut are not equally committed to McCain-Feingold soft money elimination, et cetera. But at least let's get this ill cured. 
   How in the world a vote can be cast against disclosure of this is not comprehensible to me. 
   I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent Senators be allowed to speak on this issue, and therefore ask further proceedings under the quorum call be suspended. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I have an amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I have amendment No. 3179 at the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment would provide the funding necessary to end the food stamp military. I come to the floor with this proposal which I introduced in March. Two months ago, I offered an amendment to the congressional budget resolution for fiscal years 2001 through 2005. The Senate adopted an amendment then to secure funding to end the ``food stamp military'' by a vote of 99-0. 
   I would expect a similar vote, but I think it is important that we get Members on record to try to rectify what is really a very deplorable and unacceptable situation, and that is, our junior enlisted service personnel, mostly in the pay grades E1 through E5 are on food stamps. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, these are stories concerning the lifestyles of the service men and women in the military. One in the Washington Post article of July 20 concerns Quantico Marine Corps Base in Virginia. One of the enlisted marines says:  
   I think it stinks, really, that a member of the armed forces has to go to food stamps,'' said Lance Cpl. Damon Durre, 25. But that is what the Quantico Marine did after finding he could not support his wife and two children on his take-home pay.  
   In the London Sunday Telegraph there is a story:  
   Food stamps worth $142 a month have helped eke out the $1,000 monthly pay check on which L/Cpl Bradshaw, his wife Tenille and their two young children must live in a small, tin house in the middle of the base. Mrs. Bradshaw said: ``Without food stamps my children would not be having much of a Christmas.'' 
   But the system can be humiliating. Despite having no other means of paying, L/Cpl Bradshaw was not allowed to buy a loaf of bread at the base's military supermarket recently because although he had his food stamps, he did not have with him an official card stating he was entitled to them.  
   These are just demonstrations of a situation that exists in our Armed Forces today; that is, that approximately 6,300 service members receive food stamps. That is an unofficial DOD report, while the General Accounting Office and Congressional Research Service place the number at nearly 13,500. There is some disparity with the numbers, but the fact is that there are still thousands on food stamps. Obviously, I believe this is a national disgrace and it needs to be repaired. 
   The amendment will cost approximately $28 million over 5 years. That is an average of less than $6 million per year, to pay for an additional allowance of $180 a month to military families who are eligible for food stamps. Additionally, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that this amendment would save millions of dollars in the Food Stamp Program by removing service members from the food stamp rolls for good. 
   As we know, in recent years military pay increases have barely kept pace with inflation. But last year there was a significant increase, including a pay raise for admirals and generals, who received a 17-percent pay raise last year. And enlisted families continue to line up for free food and furniture. 
   I was pleased to hear the prospective Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Vern Clark, support a food stamp stipend when he testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee on May 16. Admiral Clark was asked by Chairman WARNER if he was concerned that a food stamp stipend would create an inequity between service members who qualify for food stamps and those who do not. Admiral Clark stated:  
   My view is that it is far, far more important to not have our people on food stamps than it is to have a small inequity....... This is the kind of thing that speaks volumes, much more than a few dollars that are involved in it, about ..... how important we think they are. I support any measure that would put us in a position where we do not ever have to have a single Sailor on food stamps.  
   I commend Admiral Clark for his clear thinking and his support of a measure that will reflect whether or not we care fundamentally for our service members. Admiral Clark is right. We need to rectify this problem. There is no provision in the bill at this time concerning the food stamp issue. 
   I might point out, this amendment is supported by The American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the National Association for Uniformed Services, the Disabled American Veterans, The Retired Officer's Association, and every enlisted association or organization that specifically supports enlisted service member issues in the Military Coalition and in the National 
   Military/Veterans Alliance. These associations include the Non Commissioned Officers  Association, The Retired Enlisted Association, the Fleet Reserve Association, the Air Force Sergeants Association, the U.S. Coast Guard Chief Petty Officers Association, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, and the Naval Enlisted Reserve Association. 
   During the budget resolution, I talked for a long time about this problem in the military. We are talking about, I believe, a $290-some billion authorization. We are talking about now an additional $6 million a year to handle a problem which has received enormous publicity, enormous visibility. In the view of officers and enlisted alike, it is a problem that has caused a great impact on the morale of the men and women in the military, whether they happen to be on food stamps or not. 
   I urge adoption of the amendment. 
   I thank my colleague, Senator WARNER, the chairman of the committee, for allowing me to offer this amendment at this time. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. That is basically correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent to engage in a brief colloquy with the chairman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank my colleague. I am sure the Senator from Virginia is aware, as he points out, that this is a problem, although the reason why we chose $180 a month was so that while it would not completely close the gap, which is higher than that between the two ranks he just stated, far more important than that--I can only quote the prospective Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Vern Clark, when asked by Chairman WARNER this past May 16, a few weeks ago, about this exact issue he raises. The response of the prospective Chief of Naval Operations was:  
   My view is that it is far, far more important to not have our people on food stamps than it is to have a small inequity....... This is the kind of thing that speaks volumes, much more than a few dollars that are involved in it, about ..... how important we think they are. I support any measure that would put us in a position where we do not ever have to have a single Sailor on food stamps.  
   Also, as I mentioned in my remarks earlier, every enlisted association: the Noncommissioned Officers Association, the Retired Enlisted Association, the Fleet Reserve Association, the Air Force Sergeants Association, et cetera, who are also aware of this situation, still because of the gravity of the problems, support this $180-a-month increase for those who are on food stamps. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If I may respond briefly to my friend, Senator WARNER was involved in this many years ago when we had enormous retention problems in the military, especially in what we call critical rates--those who had specialized skills and talents. The chairman was involved in this because we decided we would give higher pay to people who were of the same time or even less time in the military because they had special skills. And they are today, and were then, receiving higher pay because of the special skills and the need to retain those people with special skills. 
   I have always felt that the backbone of the Navy was the bosun's mate. Yet we find in the Navy that the bosun's mate is the lowest paid, while the electronic technician, the computer specialist, and others, who are of equal rank--or rate, to be accurate--receive a much higher salary. We did that for practical reasons, which was that it was an absolute criticality of maintaining people in the Navy and other branches of the military who had these critical skills. We are sort of doing the same thing here. We are trying to correct the morale problem that exists when the word spreads throughout the military and in our recruiting efforts in high schools all over America that if you are going to join an organization, i.e., the U.S. military, and you have children, you may still be on food stamps. I think there is some comparability between those two situations, although not an absolute one. I hope the chairman takes my point here. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Today, you could have a lieutenant who is an aviator making more money than a nonaviator officer, an E1 or E2 ranked senior to that person because of the criticality of keeping those people in the Navy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. He said:  
   My view is that it is far, far more important to not have our people on food stamps than it is to have a small inequity.......  
   The Commandant of the Marine Corps and the current Chief of Naval Operations also share those views. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. It is not clear because we have gotten two or three different estimates, I say to the Senator from Virginia. Several experts say this will largely eliminate the problem. There are others who say there will still be a few remaining, but all agree this would eliminate the overwhelming majority of service members on food stamps. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-20000606</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the chairman and the ranking member for their support of this amendment. I think the remarks of both pointing out that this is not a perfect fix but is a significant step in the right direction is entirely appropriate. Obviously, we will have to review the situation after we see what the result of this amendment is once it is enacted into law. 
   I thank both Senator WARNER and Senator LEVIN. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, Zimbabwe is in the midst of a political crisis that threatens its future, and that is destabilizing its regional neighbors. I believe the Senate should go on record in support of Zimbabwe's democratic activists and against the authoritarian tactics of President Robert Mugabe, whose campaign of state-directed violence and intimidation against opposition party members, farmers, and farm workers are devastating the nation he leads, impoverishing his people and tarnishing his country's prospects. 
   As my colleagues know, in February, President Mugabe lost a referendum he had called in expectation of victory to grant himself additional constitutional powers. This historic loss, coupled with the emergence of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, signaled that Mugabe's days as President were numbered. 
   But after twenty years in power, hopes that Mugabe would go quietly into the night after founding and presiding over his nation for two decades are demonstrably naive. Mugabe today is clearly doing everything in his power to avoid joining the tiny cadre of African leaders who have voluntarily transferred power following free and fair elections. On the contrary: Mugabe has incited a racial crisis over property rights and sent his army to fight a war in which Zimbabwe has no stake, all in the hopes of prolonging his hold on the power he apparently regards as his birthright. But the average Zimbabwean, who is poorer by one-third than when Mugabe came to power twenty years ago and who currently suffers the effects of 50 percent unemployment and an inflation rate of 70 percent, would likely disagree with Mugabe's assessment of the continuing benefits of his rule. 
   President Mugabe has shamelessly encouraged the squatter occupation of Zimbabwe's commercial farms for political purposes. In doing so, he actively abandons the rule of law in favor of mob rule, in the process destroying the nation's wealth. An internationally agreed-upon process of land redistribution funded by Britain, the United States, and other powers collapsed after it became clear that the only land redistribution Mugabe favored was that which transferred white-owned farms intact to his political cronies. 
   As if economic collapse and politically motivated race-baiting weren't enough, Mugabe has dispatched 12,000 troops to fight in the civil war in the Democratic Republic of Congo, at a cost of millions of dollars to his government, while an AIDS crisis and economic stagnation grow. Independent observers cannot discern any tangible Zimbabwean national interest in Congo that merits a costly troop deployment, although such observers do note that Mugabe and his military allies have profited handsomely from using the mission to exploit Congo's natural resource base. 
   Facing heavy domestic and international pressure, Mugabe has finally scheduled elections for next month. Based on its level of popular support, the beleaguered Movement for Democratic Change should do very well in the upcoming parliamentary elections, assuming they are not stolen by Mugabe and his ZANU-PF. The current rubber-stamp parliament, in which the ZANU-PF controls 147 of 150 seats, would likely change hands, altering the country's course and hopefully reinstating the rule of law and the democratic protections Zimbabwe's people deserve. Many observers believe, however, that only intense and sustained international pressure can prevent an electoral outcome inconsistent with the wishes of Zimbabwe's voters. 
   The level of election-related violence and intimidation against the opposition is made clear by a May 22, 2000, International Republican Institute report, from which I quote:  
   The [Movement for Democratic Change] released on May 10 a comprehensive report documenting more than 5,000 acts of violence and intimidation throughout the country in the past 10 weeks. At least 15 black MDC members and supporters, four white farmers, and a policeman have been killed since the February constitutional referendum that marked ZANU-PF's first defeat at the ballot box since taking power in 1980. At least 300 people have been driven from rural homes that have been wrecked or burned. Hundreds have been beaten and maimed. At least eight women have been raped because of perceived allegiance to opposition parties. In 92 percent of the cases, the perpetrators of the violence were either known supporters of the ruling party or government employees. Of the victims, 41 percent were MDC supporters and 51 percent were black farm workers and suspected MDC sympathizers. Most observers agree that land reform is not the real issue, but is being used as a smokescreen to mask government efforts to crush political opposition.  
   The International Republican Institute, which I chair, is deeply involved in pre-election security, training, and registration and will play an important monitoring role throughout Zimbabwe's electoral process. IRI is sponsoring an audit of Zimbabwe's voter registration rolls, training 3,000 domestic poll monitors, conducting voter education and public opinion polling, providing funding to support legal challenges to electoral conditions inimical to a free and fair vote, sponsoring an election-related violence-monitoring unit, and fielding a bipartisan international election observation team to observe and report on the electoral process in Zimbabwe. Both IRI and its counterpart, the National Democratic Institute, have indicated that the conditions for credible democratic elections simply do not exist at present. 
   In light of these grim pre-electoral assessments, and the heavy-handedness of Mugabe's rule in the period preceding the vote, I believe the Senate should clearly state its support for free and transparent elections in Zimbabwe, the rule of law, appropriate international assistance for a peaceful process of land reform, and the political activists who brave Mugabe's wrath in the name of democratic rule. My resolution makes a series of findings concerning the violence, breakdown of rule of law, and troubled pre-election period in Zimbabwe. The resolution resolves that the Senate: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000524</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to summarize the case against the confirmation of Professor Smith to the FEC. 
   My colleague from Kentucky yesterday stated Mr. Smith has been demonized. That is not true. I have criticized the nominee because I strongly disagree with his view that ``The most sensible reform is a simple one: repeal of the Federal Elections Campaign Act.'' 
   I understand Professor Smith is not very old. In fact, Professor Smith could not have read the history or known about the abuses that took place in the 1972 campaign associated with the Watergate scandal which brought about the modern Federal Elections Campaign Act. 
   I strongly disagree with his conclusion that ``campaign reform is not about good government. It's about silencing people whose views are inconvenient to those with power.......'' 
   Professor Smith goes on to say--these are his words:  
   The real campaign-finance scandal has little to do with Senator Fred Thompson's investigation. The real scandal is the brazen effort of reformers to silence the American people.  
   I take strong exception to that view of history and the motivation of those of us and millions of decent men and women, honest men and women, who believe this situation needs to be cleaned up. 
   This morning's Washington Post has a story about ``MCI Center's Menu: Ribs and a Record Democratic Fundraiser:  
   ``There is no donor fatigue, no Clinton fatigue, no Democratic fatigue,'' said an exhilarated Terence R. McAuliffe, who made 200 calls a day for seven weeks for his crowning achievement as Clinton's mean man in chief. 
   McAuliffe used four telephones at a time--three for aides to dial, to put would-be donors on hold, and one for him to coo into his headset, bringing home the big-dollar bacon. 
   The tribute has 21 vice chairs, who gave or raised $250,000; 42 Friends, who gave $100,000; and 32 hosts, who gave or raised $50,000. But what sets this dinner apart is the altitude of the top donor tier--the co-chairs, who each gave or raised $500,000. 
   There are 26 of them, including 10 labor unions.  
   The article goes on:  
   Another of the co-chairs is Senator Bob Kerrey (D-Neb.) who is not seeking reelection and will become president of New School University, in New York City. Kerrey said such efforts renew his commitment to campaign finance reform. ``When someone puts up half a million, you just cannot persuade people that they aren't getting something for it.''  
   Senator KERREY aptly described the situation that will take place at the dinner at the MCI Center: ribs and a record Democratic fundraiser, which is a record only because it exceeds the Republican fundraiser that recently was held where $24 million was raised. 
   If on the floor of this body 10 years ago I said there were going to be $500,000 donors, no one would give any credibility to that statement.  
   The Supreme Court also disagrees with Mr. Smith. We seem to be debating this issue of campaign finance reform and its validity in a vacuum because neither the Senator from Kentucky nor Mr. Smith seem to believe that, in January of the year 2000, the Court upheld Missouri campaign contribution limitations in a 6-3 opinion. The Court rejected Mr. Smith's premise that large contributions do not affect votes. 
   This is what Justice Souter wrote for the Court on the issue of the constitutionality of contribution limits:  
   In speaking of ``improper influence'' and ``opportunities for abuse'' in addition to ``quid pro quo'' arrangements, we recognized a concern not confined to bribery of public officials, but extending to the broader threat from politicians too compliant with the wishes of large contributors. These were the obvious points behind our recognition that Congress could constitutionally address the power of money ``to influence governmental actions'' in ways less ``blatant and specific'' than bribery. 
   In defending its own statute, Missouri espouses those same interests of preventing corruption and the appearance of it that flowed from munificent campaign contributions. Even without the authority of Buckley there would be no serious question about the legitimacy of the interests claimed, which, after all, underlie bribery and anti-gratuity statutes. While neither law nor morals equate all political contributions, without more, to bribes, we spoke in Buckley of the perception of corruption ``inherent in a regime of large individual financial contributions'' to candidates for political office ..... as a source of concern almost equal to ``quid pro quo'' improbity....... Leave the perception of impropriety unanswered and the cynical assumption that large donors call the tune could jeopardize the willingness of voters to take part in democratic governance. Democracy works ``only if the people have faith in those who govern, and that faith is bound to be shattered when high officials and their appointees engage in activities which arouse suspicions of malfeasance and corruption.......''  
   Mr. President, the event tonight, I promise you, has aroused amongst my constituents suspicions of malfeasance and corruption for any objective observer of the political process. 
   Justice Stevens, in his concurring opinion said:  
   Justice Kennedy suggests that the misuse of soft money tolerated by this Court's misguided decision in Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Committee v. Federal Election Commission, demonstrates the need for a fresh examination of the constitutional issues raised by Congress' enactment of the Federal Election Campaign Acts of 1971 and 1974 and this Court's resolution of those issues in Buckley v. Valeo. In response to his call for a new beginning therefore, I make one simple point. Money is property; it is not speech. 
   Speech has the power to inspire volunteers to perform a multitude of tasks on a campaign trail, on a battleground, or even on a football field. Money, meanwhile, has the power to pay hired laborers to perform the same tasks. It does not follow, however, that the First Amendment provides the same measure of protection to the use of money to accomplish such goals as it provides to the use of ideas to achieve the same results.  
   Mr. President, we must consider this nomination, and the message it sends to the people of this country, in light of the reality of this year's campaign fundraising excesses. 
   Let me reiterate four points that summarize my opposition to Mr. Smith's nomination to become an FEC Commissioner. 
   He has long advocated the repeal of campaign finance regulation. How can he now take an oath to uphold and enforce the very laws he has so long sought to eliminate altogether? 
   He has continually argued the unconstitutionality of restraints on campaign finance regulation. His position has been that the Supreme Court erred in its Buckley v. Valeo opinion which upheld restraints on campaign contributions. Even as recently as his confirmation hearing in March, after the Supreme Court had again upheld campaign contributions limitations in the Missouri Shrink case, he neither acknowledged that most recent pronouncement of the Supreme Court, nor changed his viewpoint as to the constitutionality of contribution regulation. How can he now agree to uphold and enforce laws and regulations which he believes are unconstitutional? 
   Mr. President, I do not believe that we would confirm as EPA Administrator someone who advocated the repeal of environmental laws. I do not believe we would appoint an Attorney General who believes that the criminal laws are unconstitutional or a conscientious objector to be Secretary of Defense. Why should we confirm Mr. Smith as a Commissioner for the FEC? 
   Although he acknowledges the campaign finance abuses of the 1996 election, he sees nothing wrong with giving free rein to such activity by eliminating all campaign finance regulation. 
   If we would not conform as EPA Administrator someone who advocated the repeal of the environmental laws, nor confirm an Attorney General who believes that the criminal laws are unconstitutional, or a conscientious objector as the Secretary of Defense, why would we confirm Brad Smith as a Commissioner for the FEC? 
   Also in yesterday's debate, Senator MCCONNELL raised questions about the appropriateness of Danny McDonald, the choice of the Democrats as a nominee, to serve on the FEC. I appreciate the concerns that my colleague from Kentucky has raised. I totally concur that we should apply the standards equally for nominees to these most important positions. Based upon the issues Senator MCCONNELL has raised, I will rethink my position on Mr. McDonald, and vote against his confirmation as well. 
   Mr. President, I cannot speak more directly or frankly against this nominee. I urge my colleagues who have fought for campaign finance reform--my colleagues who believe in the need for integrity in our election system--to vote no on Brad Smith. As the New York Times said earlier this year:  
   A vote to confirm Mr. Smith is a vote to perpetuate big-money politics. ..... Mr. Smith does not belong on the FEC, and anyone in the Senate who cares about fashioning a fair and honest system for financing campaigns should vote against his appointment.  
   As chairman of the Commerce Committee, I have been involved with moving more nominees that almost any other Member of this body. I have allowed nominees to move forward, even when I disagreed with the nominee. But, Mr. President, this case is different. 
   I do not expect to agree with all the views of those nominated. But Mr. Smith's views are not just different from mine--again, a fact I would respect--they are radically different from 100 years of court and congressional precedence that some restrictions on campaign contributions are necessary to ensure the integrity of this body and the electoral process as a whole. 
   This is not just my opinion of the law. Let me read from Justice Breyer's concurring opinion, in which Justice Ginsberg joined, in the most recent pronouncement of the Supreme Court on campaign finance regulation--the Shrink Missouri PAC case:  
   If the dissent believes that the Court diminishes the importance of the first Amendment interests before us, it is wrong. The court's opinion does not question the constitutional importance of political speech or that its protection lies at the heart of the First Amendment. Nor does it question the need for particularly careful, precise, and independent judicial review where, as here, that protection is at issue. But this is a case where constitutionally protected interests lie on both sides of the legal equation....... 
   On the one hand, a decision to contribute money to a campaign is a matter of First Amendment--not because the money is speech (it is not); but because it enables speech. Through contributions the contributor associates himself with the candidates's cause, helps the candidate communicate a political message with which the contributor agrees, and helps the candidate win by attracting votes of similarly minded voters....... both political association and political communication are at stake....... 
   On the other hand, restrictions upon the amount any one individual can contribute to a particular candidate seek to protect the integrity of the electoral process--the means through which a free society democratically translates political speech into concrete governmental action....... Moreover, by limiting the size of the largest contributions, such restrictions aim to democratize the influence that money itself may bring to bear upon the electoral process ..... In doing so, they seek to build public confidence in that process and broaden the base of a candidate's meaningful financial support, encouraging the public participation and open discussion that the First Amendment itself presupposes.  
   Unfortunately, the views of this nominee make him unfit to serve on the FEC. This is not, as I have stated, meant to be personal. I have nothing against Mr. Smith personally. I am sure he is a fine individual. But this body is constitutionally mandated to advise and consent on nominations. I take that role extremely seriously. And as such, I cannot support this nominee, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. 
   Mr. President, I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the nomination of Mr. Smith to the Federal Election Commission. I intend no personal aspersions toward Mr. Smith, and I am sure he is a fine man. However, he should not serve in the position to which he has been nominated. Sending Brad Smith to the FEC is akin to confirming a conscientious objector to be Secretary of Defense. 
   It would be well to put the debate we are having today and for a short period tomorrow in the context of what is going on as we speak. Tuesday, May 23, from an LA Times article, ``Democratic Fund-Raising King Has 26 Million Reasons to Gloat''.  
   Brash, unapologetic Terry McAuliffe helps party raise ``greatest amount of money ever.'' Critics decry ``political extortion.'' 
   Even on an average day, Terry McAuliffe is exuberant. But these days, the Democrats' fund-raising master can barely contain himself. 
   After six weeks of making 200 telephone calls a day, attending happy-hour rallies with small time fund-raisers and wooing new high-dollar givers at intimate dinners, McAuliffe is on track to raise $26 million at a blue-jeans-and-barbecue event at a downtown sports arena Wednesday night--``the greatest amount of money ever in the history of American politics.'' 
   Then, turning to leave for another dinner where he would woo a likely big-money contributor, McAuliffe added: ``Get those checkbooks out!'' 
   Although a $100,000 contribution was a benchmark in the last presidential election, this time around fund-raisers are collecting scores of checks for $250,000 and more from those who want to qualify as political players. 
   For Wednesday night's event at Washington's MCI Center, no fewer than 25 people raised or donated at least $500,000, McAuliffe said. 
   By March, unregulated ``soft money'' donations to both parties were soaring, with Democratic totals nearly matching Republicans for the first time. 
   Officials of both parties say that the record-setting inflow reflects enthusiasm for  their candidates and their platforms, but the reality is more complicated. 
   ``There is just raw greed on the part of the solicitors, and it is corrupting,'' said Fred Wertheimer, a longtime leader in the effort to reform the nation's campaign finance laws. 
   ``When you're dealing with $250,000 and $500,000 campaign contributions you are flatly dealing with influence -buying and -selling and with political extortion.'' 
   Faced with what many would consider a daunting task, the callers appeared driven by a mix of humor, commitment, swagger and chutzpah. 
   ``I want to ask you a question,'' McAuliffe told one donor on the phone. ``If the world blew up tomorrow would you do 500?'' meaning $500,000. 
   ``We should have gone for RFK,'' McAuliffe bellowed, referring to the 50,000-seat stadium that once housed the NFL's Washington Redskins. 
   But when one top DNC donor inquired about getting a second table at the event, McAuliffe said, ``For 500 grand, I think we could give him two tables. 
   In the few in-depth conversations ..... donors seem more interested in talking about pet legislative issues than about the merits of the Democrats' presidential nominee, AL GORE.  
   Mr. President, that is the context in which we are considering the nomination of a man who has written extensively and spoken, not very persuasively, on the fact of no regulation whatsoever concerning the role of money in American politics. We know that the role of the FEC is to ``administer, seek to obtain compliance with, and formulate policy with respect to'' the Federal Election Campaign Act. 
   The FEC has the exclusive authority with respect to civil enforcement of the act. Clearly, then, it is obvious that FEC Commissioners should be dedicated to the proposition of Federal election regulation. Each Commissioner must be committed to ensuring a fair and open election process which is not tainted by the appearance of impropriety. Each Commissioner must be prepared to--I emphasize--uphold the law and preserve its intent by prohibiting the use and proliferation of loopholes. 
   I do not believe Mr. Smith has a philosophical commitment to upholding the intent of the law necessary to perform the duties of an FEC Commissioner. In fact, Mr. Smith has been highly critical of campaign reform. It is not that Mr. Smith simply disagrees with particular details of campaign finance reform. He disagrees with the basic premise that campaigns should be regulated at all--a distinctly and unique minority position in America--or that campaign contributions play any part in public cynicism of our political system. 
   I read from a March 17, 1997, article that Mr. Smith wrote, published in the Wall Street Journal. It is entitled ``Why Campaign Finance Reform Never Works.'' The title says it all in terms of his philosophy. Apparently, Mr. Smith never heard of Theodore Roosevelt. 
   I quote from his article, Mr. President:  
   In fact, constitutional or not, campaign finance reform has turned out to be bad policy. For most of our history, campaigns were essentially unregulated, yet democracy survived and flourished. However, since passage of the Federal Elections Campaign Act and similar State laws, the influence of special interests has grown, voter turnout has fallen, and incumbents have become tougher to dislodge.......  
   Apparently, Mr. Smith lived in some other nation during the Watergate scandal, when unlimited amounts of money would be carried around this town in valises, when corporations and companies and individuals were literally being extorted for money which was unaccounted for. Apparently, Mr. Smith missed the widespread, nationwide revulsion at these abuses, which brought about the campaign finance reform laws of 1974. Apparently, Mr. Smith was not seeking public office, as I was in 1982, when there was no such thing as soft money, where we had to go out and raise small amounts of money from many, many donors, where we had to conduct the kind of grassroots campaign to which Americans have grown accustomed. Perhaps Mr. Smith was not aware that, until late into the 1980s, campaigns were conducted in a very different fashion than today. 
   Not recognizing any role that creative evasion of the laws has played in these results, Mr. Smith concludes his article by writing:  
   When a law is in continual revision to close a series of everchanging ``loopholes,'' it is probably the law, and not the people, that is in error. The most sensible reform is a simple one--  
   I am quoting from Mr. Smith's article in the Wall Street 
   Journal:  
   The most sensible reform is a simple one: repeal of the Federal Elections Campaign Act.  
   That is a remarkable statement, a remarkable statement, from one who is required in his new position to enforce the very law that he wants repealed. Remarkable, Mr. President, remarkable. 
   Is someone who advocates a total repeal of the very law he would be enforcing as a Commissioner the right person for this job? Additionally, what job, over time, does not need revision or reauthorization? I am pleased to be the chairman of the Commerce Committee. We spend a great deal of time reauthorizing agencies of Government. That is an important part of our duties because time and circumstances and technology and issues change. For Mr. Smith to somehow condemn a law that is as important as the Federal Election Campaign Act because it needs to be reviewed, revised, and renewed, is, of course, showing incredible ignorance of the way that Congress functions. 
   Unfortunately, this is not an isolated example. In January 1998, Mr. Smith authored an article for USA Today. In that article, he said:  
   The First Amendment was based on the belief that political speech was too important to be regulated by the government. Campaign finance laws operate on the directly contrary assumption that campaigns are so important that speech must be regulated. ..... The solution to the campaign finance dilemma is to recognize the flawed assumptions of the campaign finance reformers, dismantle the Federal Elections Campaign Act, and the FEC bureaucracy, and take seriously the system of campaign finance ``regulation'' that the Founding Fathers wrote into the Bill of Rights: ``Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech.''  
   Is Mr. Smith ignoring the fact that President Theodore Roosevelt led the fight to enact meaningful reform in 1907? Is Mr. Smith ignoring the fact that Republican majorities in Congress led the fight to prohibit union campaigns and corporate contributions to American political campaigns? Is Mr. Smith ignorant of the fact that the overwhelming majority of both Houses of Congress enacted comprehensive campaign finance reform in 1974? I stand proudly by Theodore Roosevelt in believing the 1907 reforms were valid. Mr. Smith does not. 
   Apparently, Mr. Smith missed, or has not heard of, the recent decision of the U.S. Supreme Court which directly repudiates Mr. Smith's assertions. I also find it curious that a person would hold views that have been directly repudiated by the U.S. Supreme Court--not holding their views as to the validity or his commitment to them, but certainly it is hard for me to understand how he would hold views that the U.S. Supreme Court, in their appointed duties, has ruled as constitutional. 
   In one of the comments made by the U.S. Supreme Court, in U.S. Supreme Court decisions, at the end of part B, the U.S. Supreme Court goes out of its way to even mention Mr. Smith:  
   There might, of course, be need for a more extensive evidentiary documentation if petitioners had made any showing of their own to cast doubt on the apparent implications of Buckley's evidence and the record here, but the closest respondents come to challenging these conclusions is their invocation of academic studies said to indicate that large contributions to public officials or candidates do not actually result in changes in candidate's positions. Brief for Respondents Shrink Missouri Government PAC; Smith, Money Talks: Speech, Corruption, Equality, and Campaign Finance; Smith, Faulty Assumptions and Undemocratic Consequences of Campaign Finance Reform. Other studies, however, point the other way.  
   Obviously, the U.S. Supreme Court did not agree with Mr. Smith's conclusions. If Mr. Smith were intellectually honest, he would note in his next upholding of his view that his view has been directly repudiated by the U.S. Supreme Court. 
   Another example. In light of Senator THOMPSON's investigation in the 1996 finance scandal, the unfettered buying and selling of influence, which the Clinton-Gore campaign practiced, such as overnight stays at the White House, selling seats on foreign trade missions, and receiving money from foreign governments, what Mr. Smith wrote in USA Today on July 8, 1997, was this:   
   Campaign reform is not about good government. It's about silencing people whose views are inconvenient to those with power. ..... The real campaign-finance scandal has little to do with Senator Fred Thompson's investigation. The real scandal is the brazen effort of reformers to silence the American people.  
   I have been around here a lot of years. An allegation of that nature, even though I have been here for some period of time, I find very offensive. I repeat what Mr. Smith said:  
   The real scandal is the brazen effort of reformers to silence the American people.  
   I think the record is clear of not only my advocacy but my service to this Nation on behalf of free speech, and certainly to argue that those of us who have a different opinion than Mr. Smith are conducting a brazen effort to silence the American people is obviously something that not only do I find offensive, but something that I find disqualifying in Mr. Smith. 
   It is clear that Mr. Smith believes there is no such thing as appropriate campaign finance reform. He believes that all campaign contributions, spending, and influence peddling are protected without limitation. He has advocated time and again the repeal of the very law he would be sworn to uphold and enforce. How can we seriously consider confirming his nomination to serve as a Commissioner? 
   I would like to say a word about his really inappropriate remarks about Senator FRED THOMPSON's advice. Senator FRED THOMPSON's investigation got into some very serious issues, such as breach of national security, such as foreign influence peddling, such as unlimited amounts of money coming in from foreign nations to influence our political process. Whether most Americans believe Senator THOMPSON's conclusions were correct, I think they certainly agreed it was an appropriate action. In fact, it was agreed to by both Republicans and Democrats that Senator THOMPSON's investigative hearings take place. 
   Mr. Smith says, ``The real scandal is the brazen effort of reformers to silence the American people.'' That is a remarkable statement among many remarkable statements Mr. Smith has made. 
   Others are equally concerned about Mr. Smith's suitability to serve on the FEC. The Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law has this to say. This is the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law:  
   Imagine the President nominating an Attorney General who believes that most of our criminal laws are `profoundly undemocratic' and unconstitutional. Or an SEC Commissioner who has publicly called for the repeal of all securities laws with the plea, `We should deregulate and just let it go.' Or a nominee for EPA Administrator who believes that the agency he aspires to head and `its various state counterparts' should be abolished. It would be unthinkable. In a society rooted in the rule of law, we would never tolerate the appointment of a law enforcement officer who has vocally and repeatedly denounced the very laws he would be called upon to enforce, much less one who has called for the repeal of those laws and the abolition of the very agency he aspires to head. 
   `Unthinkable. Yet, President Clinton, at the urging of Senator Lott and Senator McConnell, has nominated Bradley A. Smith to fill one of the vacancies on the Federal Election Commission. Brad Smith, a law professor at Capital University Law School, has devoted his career to denouncing the FEC and the laws it is entrusted to enforce in precisely those strident terms. He believes that virtually the entire body of the nation's campaign finance law is fundamentally flawed and unworkable-indeed, unconstitutional. He has forcefully advocated deregulation of the system. And if the James Watt of campaign finance had his way, the FEC and its state counterparts, would do little more than serve as a file drawer for disclosure reports ..... 
   Brad Smith's sponsors and supporters are floating the myth that it is campaign finance reformers, rather than Smith, who are the radicals on these issues. However, the Supreme Court only last month in Shrink Missouri cited two of Smith's academic articles by name in its opinion and then repudiated his view that there is no danger of corruption or the appearance of corruption from large campaign contributions. However, we do not need the U.S. Supreme Court to tell us that Brad Smith is a radical, who is out of step with the mainstream. In his own words, when he was approached about serving on the FEC, Smith stated: `My first thought was ``they've got to be just looking at me put my name on the list so that whoever they really want will look less radical.'' Even Smith did not believe, at first, that the Republicans would seriously put forward his name for this position because his views are so extreme..... 
   Brad Smith and his supporters have asserted that, although Smith personally disagrees with much of the law, he can nevertheless be counted on to faithfully enforce it. One is forced to ask, however, why an academic who has made his career by criticizing the nation's election laws would want the job of stoically enforcing those laws? The answer, of course, is that Brad Smith recognizes that federal election law, like any complex regulatory regime, is open to interpretation and it is the process of interpretation that gives the law its meaning. Brad Smith's goal, whenever there is any room for interpretation, will doubtless be to allow federal campaign finance law to whither on the vine. And any member of Congress that supports additional campaign finance regulations--such as McCain-Feingold or Shays-Meehan, should be very troubled by the prospect that the rules and regulations governing their implementation might be drafted by such an arch-nemesis of those reforms.  
   I think there are a couple of additional points to be made here. One is, how can the President of the United States be committed to finance reform and submit Mr. Smith's name? That nominating process comes from the President of the United States. The next time you hear the President of the United States reiterate his commitment to meaningful campaign finance reform, remember the type of person who was nominated by the President of the United States for this position. 
   In deference to the President of the United States, we have a little unwritten rule that the President gets to appoint some and the majority--in this case, the Republicans--appoint others. The President still had the ability and the authority to reject this most extreme nominee for any position that I have seen in my years here since 1987. 
   There is another point that I think is important. Why would someone who disagrees with campaign finance laws, who believes they should be scrapped, and who believes fundamentally they are unconstitutional--not just the personal dislike but a firmly held tenet that all campaign finance laws should be scrapped and are unconstitutional--how in the world could you then expect someone to face a fundamental contradiction of their basic beliefs that a law is unconstitutional and yet seek the position where his sole duties are to enforce those laws? How Mr. Smith could even take an oath to uphold the same laws of which he has time and again rejected and advocated their repeal is a mystery. 
   What does that say? Either he is willing and able to cast aside lifelong beliefs and principles in order to hold a prestigious position or he is less than sincere in undertaking enforcement of campaign reforms or enforcing existing law. 
   President Reagan once said no to a Democrat whose name was submitted. President Clinton could have done the same. I say, shame on you, Mr. President, for not rejecting this name. 
   Let me be perfectly clear that I do not oppose Mr. Smith simply because he disagrees with my proposed legislation. Many of my closest friends take issue with aspects of McCain-Feingold. I respect the opinion of others, and I respect the right of Mr. Smith to hold a view contrary to mine. It is because he objects to any form of campaign finance regulation that I oppose him. 
   If you took a poll of the 100 Members of this body, I don't think you would find more than perhaps 1 who would hold the view that Mr. Smith does. My friends on both sides of the aisle at least say we need some form of campaign finance reform. Most are offended by this latest loophole called 527. Most find it egregious that we now have $500,000 contributors. Most of them believe the money chase has lurched out of control to the point where, by actual acts of commission and omission, young Americans have become cynical and alienated from the political process. The 1996 election had the lowest voter turnout of 18- to 26-year-olds than at any time in the history of this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I see my friend and comrade in arms, Senator FEINGOLD. Let me mention what is going on not only as far as the fundraiser is concerned, but recently we received information there will be a hearing tomorrow before the Senate Judiciary subcommittee and on Thursday before the House Government Reform Committee.  
   According to a December 9, 1996, memo by FBI Director Louis J. Freeh, Mr. Radek [head of Justice Office of Public Integrity] told Mr. Esposito [who was a deputy director of the FBI] he was ``under a lot of pressure not to go forward with the investigation,'' and that Ms. Reno's job ``might hang in the balance.'' The memo said Mr. Freeh met with Ms. Reno and personally suggested she and Mr. Radek recuse themselves from the probe.  
   What we are talking about here is a situation that, if campaign finance laws had been obeyed and enforced, we would not be subjected to as a nation; that is, disturbing allegations that information was brought by the FBI, the Director of the FBI, Mr. Louis Freeh, and by Mr. Charles LaBella, who was appointed as the head of the task force to investigate these very allegations by the Attorney General herself--those recommendations were ignored by the Attorney General. The recommendation for the appointment of an independent counsel was ignored by the Attorney General of the United States. A recommendation by Mr. Freeh was not accepted by the Attorney General of the United States and, according to the Deputy Director of the FBI, Mr. Radek, whose office is described as the Office  of Public Integrity in the Justice Department, he said he was ``under a lot of pressure not to go forward with the investigation''--I wonder who from--and that Ms. Reno's job ``might hang in the balance.'' 
   This is the pernicious effect of a campaign finance system which has run amok. That is not confined to the Democratic Party. There have been abuses on my side as well because this system knows no party identification. This system knows only the increasing avariciousness of a system that has run amok. 
   We are now about to confirm as one of those whose appointment is to enforce the law someone who is adamantly opposed to the law, believes the law is unconstitutional. And we are in a situation in America today that, in the view of more objective observers than I, can only be compared to the turn of 
   the century when the robber barons of this Nation, through huge input of contributions to political campaigns, had basically bought the American Congress. Thanks to the brave and courageous efforts of one Theodore Roosevelt, joined by millions of other like-minded reformers, we brought an end to that corruption. 
   Now we are about to appoint to that body an individual who will not only not be opposed, who will not only not support trying to clean up this system, but will try to remove the last vestiges of campaign finance reform law as it exists today. All I can say is it is a 5-year appointment. He will not be there forever. We will have campaign finance reform. 
   As my colleagues know, I recently completed an unsuccessful campaign for the nomination of my party for the Presidency of the United States. It was one of the most rewarding and uplifting experiences of my life. I learned many things during that campaign. I will not clutter the RECORD with the lessons I learned. 
   When I began the campaign, I said the theme of my campaign would be reform. Every political pundit said there was no room for reform in the political agenda. In hundreds of townhall meetings and thousands of speeches, I said: Campaign finance reform is the linchpin; if we want to reform education, if we want to reform the military, if we want to reform the Tax Code, if we want to reform the institutions of government, we must get this Government out of the hands of the special interests and back to the people. I believe that message resonated then and resonates to this day. 
   We are about to appoint an individual now in complete contradiction to what I believe is strongly the will of the people, not only that existing laws be enforced but new laws be enacted in order to close the loopholes that have been created since the passage of the 1974 law. 
   We, in our wisdom, are about to appoint an individual who flies in the face of everything I learned in my campaign, despite a clear voice from the American people, particularly from our young, particularly from our young citizens to whom, sooner rather than later, we will pass the torch of leadership of this Nation, who have become cynical and even alienated from the political process--not without good reason. 
   Mr. President, I note the presence of the Senator from Vermont. I might say to the Senator from Vermont, I had a wonderful day in his State long ago, where he is well respected and well loved by the citizens of his State. I appreciate the opportunity, always, to be in lovely Montpelier. I thank him and his fellow citizens for all their hospitality. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my colleague. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, first let me remind my colleagues that Mr. Smith, in an article he wrote in the Wall Street Journal, concluded his article by saying:  
   The most sensible reform is a simple one: repeal of the Federal Elections Campaign Act.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000523</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. He begins by saying:  
   Think campaign finance reform isn't an incumbent's protection racket? Just look at the spending limits included in the Shays-Meehan and McCain-Feingold bills, the hot ``reform'' bills on Capitol Hill.  
   I will provide for the RECORD that as increases in spending have gone up, they have favored the incumbents, and more incumbents have been reelected over time. Mr. Smith is obviously wrong in his allegations as far as the facts are concerned. Then obviously he goes on to say at the end that campaign finance reform has turned out to be bad policy. He goes on to say:  
   For most of our history campaigns were essentially unregulated, yet democracy survived and flourished. However, since passage of the Federal Elections Campaign Act and similar State laws, the influence of special interests has grown, voter turnout has fallen, and incumbents have become tougher to dislodge.  
   That is an interesting view of history. 
   In 1974, we enacted campaign finance reform. The abuses of the 1972 campaign were well known. They were extremely egregious and everyone knows there was a movement across America to clean up those incredible abuses that took place in the 1972 campaign. I guess what Mr. Smith either doesn't know or has ignored is that for a long period after campaign finance reform was enacted, there were better campaigns in America. They were a lot cleaner. They were more participatory. 
   It was not until beginning in the middle to late 1980s, as smart people began to find loopholes, began to find ways around those campaign finance restrictions, that the influence of 
   special interests grew, voter turnout fell, and incumbents became tougher to dislodge. 
   I am a student of history. One of the reasons why I am is because it has a tendency to repeat itself. There was a period late in the last century, actually in the 19th century, when the robber barons took over American politics. That is a matter of history and disputed by very few historians. Fortunately, a man came to the fore in American politics by the name of Theodore Roosevelt. His words are as true today as they were then. 
   I quote from his fifth annual message to the Congress, Washington, December 25, 1905:  
   All contributions by corporations to any political committee or for any political purpose should be forbidden by law. Directors should not be permitted to use stockholders' money for such purposes. And moreover, a prohibition of this kind would be, as far as it went, an effective method of stopping the evils aimed at the Incorrupt Practices Act.  
   On October 26, 1904, Theodore Roosevelt made the following statement:  
   I have just been informed that the Standard Oil people have contributed $100,000 to our campaign fund. This may be entirely untrue. But if true I must ask you to direct that the money be returned to them forthwith. ..... Moreover, it is entirely legitimate to accept campaign contributions, no matter how large they are, from individuals and corporations on the terms on which I happen to know that you have accepted them; that is, with the explicit understanding that they were given and received with no thought of any more obligation on the part of the National Committee or of the national administration than is implied in the statement that every man shall receive a square deal, no more, no less, and that this I shall guarantee him in any event to the best of my ability. ..... But we cannot under any circumstances afford to take a contribution which can be even improperly construed as putting us under an improper obligation, and in view of my past relations with the Standard Oil Company, I fear such a construction will be put upon receiving any aid from them.  
   On 1908, September 21, in a letter to the treasurer of the Republican National Committee, Theodore Roosevelt wrote:  
   I have been informed that you, or someone on behalf of the National Committee, have requested contributions both from Mr. Archibold and Mr. Harriman. If this is true, I wish to enter a most earnest protest, and to say that in my judgment not only should such contributions not be solicited, but if tendered, they should be refused; and if they have been accepted they should immediately be returned. I am not the candidate, but I am the head of the Republican administration, which is an issue in this campaign, and I protest earnestly against men whom we are prosecuting being asked to contribute to elect a President who will appoint an Attorney-General to continue these prosecutions.  
   Mr. President, in his State of the Union speech, President Roosevelt said on August 31, 1910:  
   Now, this means that our Government, National and State, must be freed from the sinister influence or control of special interests. Exactly as the special interests of cotton and slavery threatened our political integrity before the Civil War, so now the great special business interests too often control and corrupt the men and methods of government for their own profit. We must drive the special interests out of politics.  
   Mr. President, as I said, Theodore Roosevelt's words in those days were as true then as they are today. I believe we are again in the same situation we were in before when he was able to get an all-out prohibition of corporate contributions to American political campaigns. That law is still on the books. That law has never been repealed. 
   Why is it that tomorrow night there will be a fundraiser when individuals and corporations are allowed to contribute as much as $500,000 to enjoy the hospitality of the Democratic National Committee at the MCI Center? It is because the loopholes have been exploited. People such as our nominee, Mr. Smith, have made the process such that we can no longer expect the influence of special interests not to predominate here in our Nation's Capitol. Young Americans are tired of it. Young Americans are cynical, and they have become alienated. 
   The nomination of Mr. Smith has not gone unnoticed beyond the beltway. The irony of his appointment to the FEC has been the subject of numerous editorials since the name first surfaced as a potential nominee. Let me read to you some of these editorials, Mr. President.  
   The Palm Beach Post:  
   You wouldn't put Charlton Heston in charge of gun control, and you wouldn't put Bradley A. Smith in charge of enforcing the nation's campaign-finance laws. 
   Come to think of it, Republicans want to do both. 
   Mr. Smith, a law professor in Ohio, feels about soft money the way Mr. Heston feels about assault weapons: More is better. ..... Mr. Smith has advocated the abolition of Federal restrictions on campaign contributions. Yet, Republicans want to nominate Mr. Smith to the Federal Election Commission, which was founded in 1975 to enforce campaign restrictions first imposed after Watergate. ..... 
   The quote underpinning Mr. Smith's philosophy is, ``People should be allowed to spend whatever they want on politics.'' But when Mr. Smith talks about ``people,'' he means corporations and unions and political-action committees--the big donors who give with the all-too-realistic expectation that they will receive favors from Congress in return.  
   The story I quoted earlier from the New York Times mentioned that when the big donors were contacted by phone, they wanted to --guess what--talk about legislation before the Congress, for those who were soliciting donations. 
   The San Francisco Chronicle, April 17:  
   Seldom has the metaphor of the fox keeping watch over the chicken coop seemed more apt. Bradley Smith has built his career arguing that the 1974 Federal Election Campaign Act, the law regulating campaign expenditures enacted after the Watergate scandal, is unconstitutional and should be abolished. 
   In various articles, Mr. Smith, an obscure professor at Capital University in Columbus, Ohio, has argued that our nation only spends a ``minuscule amount'' on campaigns, a mere .05 percent of our Gross National Product. Rather than corrupting the process, Smith says campaign spending promotes democracy by generating interest in candidates and issues. ..... ``If anything, we probably spend too little,'' he wrote in one of several guest columns for the Wall Street Journal. 
   Smith might have remained little more than a professorial provocateur behind the safe ramparts of the ivory tower had not Republicans put forward his name to fill a vacant seat on the Federal Election Commission, the body created by the very law Smith thinks should be abolished.  
   Washington Post, February 11, 2000:  
   When the Supreme Court recently reaffirmed that reasonable campaign finance regulations were constitutional, President Clinton sought to portray himself as a fighter for reform. ``For years, I challenged Congress to pass regulations that would ban the raising of unregulated soft money and address back door spending by outside organizations.'' He said, ``Now I am again asking Congress to restore the American people's faith in their democracy and pass real reform this year.'' This week, however, the President nominated to the Federal Election Commission a law professor, Bradley Smith, who not only opposes further reform, but believes that most existing campaign finance law violates the first amendment. Quite simply, Mr. Smith doesn't believe in the bulk of the FEC's work. Mr. Clinton has no business putting him in charge of it.  
   Mr. President, this is from the New York Times, February 17, 2000:  
   A vote to confirm Mr. Smith is a vote to perpetuate big-money politics. Campaign restrictions are only as strong as the FEC's interest in enforcing them--an interest Mr. Smith plainly lacks. In an election year in which Washington's failure to end the corrupt soft-money system has become a rallying cause for John McCain's Presidential campaign, the Senate should not seat someone on the FEC who questions the need for change. Mr. Smith, as Mr. Gore aptly noted, ``publicly questions not only the constitutionality of proposed reform, but also the constitutionality of current limitations.'' Mr. Smith does not belong on the FEC, and anyone in the Senate who cares about fashioning a fair and honest system for financing campaigns should vote against his appointment.  
   Mr. President, I don't want to put too much credence and importance on Mr. Smith's appointment. But I do not see, after the record is replete with Mr. Smith's views concerning campaign finance reform, how anyone in this body who is a sincere supporter of campaign finance reform could possibly have the remotest idea of voting for Mr. Smith. 
   Finally, I have on this floor many times for too many years been arguing the constitutionality of placing limitations on campaign contributions. 
   The opponents, time after time, have taken the floor and said: Well, Buckley v. Valeo was only a 5-4 vote, a footnote, which perhaps has become one of the most famous footnotes in the history of any Supreme Court decision concerning exactly what the words are both for and against. Over time, for reasons that are not clear to me, the opponents of campaign finance reform raise the concern in many people's minds that the heart of McCain-Feingold is unconstitutional; in other words, the ability to place a limit on campaign contributions. 
   I didn't quite understand that because in 1907 there was a law on the books that banned corporate contributions. That has never been repealed, nor declared unconstitutional. There is a law on the books in 1947 banning union contributions to American political campaigns, and then of course there is the 1974 law. 
   On January 24 of this year, Shrink Missouri clearly and unequivocally in a 6-3 decision upheld the $1,000 limitation on a campaign contribution. 
   By limiting the size of the largest contributions, such restrictions are aimed at democratizing the influence money itself may bring to bear upon the electoral service. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Michigan, Senator LEVIN, for his leadership on this issue. This has been an excellent debate, probably what we should have a lot more of in this body on a variety of issues that confront the Nation and, therefore, call us to our duties as the Senate and the Congress. 
   I agree with Senator BYRD when he quoted Congress should not remain silent. Unfortunately, we passed a law some years ago called the War Powers Act. That act--and I believe Senator BYRD was here at the time of its passage--has been largely ignored, both by the executive branch and by the legislative branch. 
   On numerous occasions, I have approached leaders on both sides and said we are violating the law called the War Powers Act, and we blithely ignore that law. Yet when we pass laws that affect our fellow citizens, we do not allow them to ignore the laws we pass. 
   It is a bit disgraceful, really, that we have a law on the books which we fail to address, particularly since this law is concerning an issue of no small importance; in fact one can argue, I think persuasively, of the most importance, and that is when and under what circumstances we send young men and women into harm's way. 
   Since we ignore the War Powers Act, the power that the Congress has, which I respect, revere, and believe is entirely appropriate under our constitutional responsibilities, is the ability to cut off funding for any military enterprise in which 
   this Nation enters. I think that is clear. I do not think there is any argument about that. 
   If the Byrd-Warner amendment was about cutting off funds for further deployment of U.S. military forces in Kosovo, I would be much more comfortable about this debate and what it is all about, but what we are doing is very unusual. I have not been here as long as some of the other Members of this body, but I have never seen an issue of this import placed on a military construction appropriations bill which generally is a routine piece of legislation, except for a few of us who come over and complain about the pork-laden aspects of it. But it is a routine piece of legislation. 
   Now it is a vehicle for debate and decision over an issue of grave importance, in the view of certainly General Clark, certainly Secretary Cohen, certainly the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. We are talking about an issue that can impact the issue of war or peace in the center of Europe. And what have we done in the Senate? We have placed it on the military construction appropriations bill. This legislation should have been the subject of hearings in the Foreign Relations Committee and the Armed Services Committee. It should have had a legislative vehicle that proceeded through both committees and then came to the floor of the Senate. In an incredibly bizarre fashion, both committee chairmen and ranking members, in my view, have abrogated their responsibilities as committee chairmen and the oversight of issues of this grave importance. 
   What is more bothersome is the fact that we are conditioning this vote on another vote that will take place sometime--which may be changed by the sponsors of the bill. On what are we voting? We are voting to propose a situation which would then require another vote. 
   As I have said, I have not been here a long time, but I have not seen anything quite like this. Our responsibility is not to have a vote on an issue that at a time certain requires another vote which, if affirmative, would allow the President of the United States to carry  out his duties as President of the United States. What this vote should be about is funding, yes or no. Do we want to fund further operations in Kosovo or do we not? 
   We have enough information to make that decision. Members of this body have been informed. 
   When the distinguished Senator from West Virginia, for whom I have the greatest respect and admiration, says Congress should not remain silent, my answer is, Congress should not speak in this fashion. Congress should not be speaking in this fashion. Congress should be speaking, as is its constitutional responsibility, to fund this operation or not to fund it. 
   I am concerned about burden sharing. I have been concerned about it all my days here in the Senate and before that in the other body. I am concerned about what are the rules of engagement. I am concerned about the role of our European allies. All of those things should be taken into a context in which Members should make a decision as to whether we stay or go. 
   With all due respect, we are taking a vote to put off a vote which would have profound consequences. The Congress, in my view, is not fulfilling its responsibilities when it addresses this issue in this fashion. 
   In the 1980s, I was in the minority and my party held the Presidency of the United States. All through the 1980s, there were attempts at micromanagement of U.S. foreign policy, particularly in Central America. Some of the bitterest debates I ever observed in the House of Representatives and here in the Senate concerned our involvement, our support for certain elements, our support for freedom and democracy in Central America. 
   I, as did many of my colleagues on this side of the aisle--who I understand are now supporting this resolution--opposed that very same kind of micromanagement on the part of Congress when the other party was in control of the White House. 
   I am very pleased to see the nominee of my party, Gov. George Bush, with whom I had a very spirited contest over the previous year, step forward forthrightly and say this is an ``overreach of congressional authority.'' 
   Governor Bush has it right. President Clinton has it right. Secretary Cohen has it right. And every objective observer that I know has it right. 
   The Washington Post of May 11, 2000, states:  
   But the Senate measure is the wrong answer to these legitimate concerns.  
   We did not have to get into Kosovo. It was through the ineptitude of this administration where they tried to impose an agreement, called the Rambouillet agreement, which Mr. Milosevic could not accept. Then we carried out, in my view, one of the more immoral military actions in the history of this country. I say that because of the tactical way we conducted it: Flying our airplanes around at such high altitudes that our planes would not be shot down but we needlessly inflicted civilian casualties. That is a shameful kind of operation on the part of the U.S. military. 
   The Washington Post says:  
   But the Senate measure is the wrong answer to these legitimate concerns. By establishing a de facto deadline for a U.S. pullout, it would actually discourage U.S. allies--who are, after all, providing the lion's share of the ground forces already--from seeing the job through as Sen. WARNER and others wish. It tells the enemies of a democratic, multiethnic state in Kosovo--Serb and Albanian--that they can wait out the Americans.  
   That is really what the message, if we adopt this resolution over a clear Presidential veto, would be: We can wait you out. We can wait you out, Americans, because we know you're going home. 
   The Secretary General of NATO, a man who is respected by all of us, sent us a letter. 
   I quote from that letter:  
   In my view, while ensuring proper burden-sharing is important, we should not let that issue distract us from our larger policy objectives. The NATO presence in Kosovo needs to be decided on the merits of our being there--the job that we are doing and that we need to finish.  
   That is the key. As critical as the burdensharing issue is, we should be deciding this issue solely on the basis of whether or not it is in the U.S. national security interests to have a military presence in the middle of Europe in Kosovo. 
   Burden sharing is an important issue. We now hear, even from the cosponsor of the legislation, Senator WARNER, that he is pleased with the increase in the burdensharing responsibility that has been taken up by our European allies. But this issue should not be based on burden sharing; it should be based on where our national security interests lie. 
   The Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization goes on to say:  
   I believe that we owe it to ourselves, if not the people of that region, to finish the job we began. As Secretary General of NATO, I will pursue that goal with the utmost vigour. I hope I can count on continued U.S. support, even recognizing that the European Allies must continue carrying the largest share of the load at this stage.  
   The Secretary General of NATO does not just speak for himself, and even the NATO alliance, but I think he speaks for all of Europe when he says: ``I hope I can count on continued U.S. support.'' 
   Since 1945, the United States has had a military presence in Europe. Any objective observer will tell you, our victory in the cold war was due to our steadfast presence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent for an additional 30 seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It is an important debate. It is an important issue. Will the forces of isolationism and withdrawal prevail or will the United States continue to hold its rightful position as the military and economic leader of the world? 
   The language currently in the bill represents not just bad policy, but bad law. Its inclusion in the Military Construction Appropriations Bill is highly inappropriate. The Congressional committees that oversee the Armed Forces and our nation's foreign relations should have the opportunity to review and debate national security matters of such consequence. The Kosovo withdrawal language in the Military Construction Appropriations bill is unprecedented and will certainly prompt a veto by the President. For these reasons, it is imperative that we move to strike Section 2410 by voting in favor of the Levin-McCain amendment. 
   The requirement in the bill for a withdrawal of ground forces unless Congress passes a joint resolution authorizing their continued deployment is precisely the kind of provision that Congress should never impose upon any Chief Executive. Congress has within its constitutional authorities the power of the purse--the legislative means to terminate funding for an ongoing military operation. It is historically reluctant to exercising that authority, even when the majority oppose the operation in question. But we should never impose the kind of statutory burden on any President that this bill seeks to impose. 
   Clearly, this Administration could have--and most definitely should have--dealt more forthrightly with Congress and the American public from the beginning. Had it done so, it likely could have avoided this kind of exercise. As with Bosnia, however, its arrogance and ineptitude left many in Congress with a sense of having to act lest its rightful place in the debate over the U.S. role abroad would be completely ignored. The result is the damaging language currently in the bill. 
   Congress has been down this road many times before. The propensity of the Administration to deploy American military forces with seemingly wanton abandon on ill-defined missions of indeterminate duration is repeatedly met with efforts by Members of Congress to legislate the terms of those deployments. We can, and most assuredly will, revisit the question of separation of powers on national security again and again. The Founding Fathers built into our system of constitutional government certain tensions designed to prevent a potentially dangerous shift in the balance of power between branches of government. 
   We last debated the issue of war powers and the U.S. role in Kosovo in March 1999. The War Powers Resolution, which many view as unconstitutional, ironically proved to be the vehicle by which both Houses of Congress finally consented to debate the issue in its totality, including my failed effort to authorize the use of ground forces in  Kosovo during Operation Allied Force. That debate was illuminating for the degree to which it illustrated the depth of opposition on the part of many senators to the military operation. That opposition, of course, is what lies behind the language on Kosovo in the bill before us today. 
   I am fully supportive of measures designed to improve the burden-sharing arrangements under which we operate alongside other nations, especially in contingencies that should never have required U.S. military involvement in the beginning. For this reason, I am not opposed to the burden-sharing language in the bill, although the frequency of the reporting requirements are somewhat excessive. I take issue, however, with the draconian measures the bill mandates should the answers we receive from the President not meet our expectations. 
   And make no mistake. When I refer here to the President, I refer to the Office of the Presidency, for the language in this bill will have far-reaching and damaging consequences for all future occupants of the Oval Office. Funding cutoffs and mandatory troop withdrawals that must occur based on future circumstances absent congressional action, such as are reflected in this legislation, represent Congress at its worst. By requiring enactment of a congressional joint resolution authorizing the continuation of our current role in Kosovo, we are establishing a very dangerous precedent that will seriously weaken this nation's ability to conduct foreign policy long after 
   many of us have left this most august of bodies. 
   I would ask supporters of Section 2410 what they believe would be accomplished by the provisions limiting funding pending presidential certification with regard to allied burden-sharing. Burden-sharing is a legitimate issue for discussion. To threaten funding cut-offs for troops in the field in the middle of an ongoing operation over the issues of equitable distribution of workload and financial commitment, however, is irresponsible in the extreme. 
   The strategic ramifications of Section 2410 should not be underestimated. The United States has important national security and economic interests around the world that are affected by what we do here in Congress. By mandating a troop withdrawal from an ongoing operation, we threaten those interests by emboldening our adversaries. Slobodan Milosevic is a calculating and ruthless individual with a record of responding to outside pressures and inducements, retreating when necessary; conducting brutal campaigns when the opportunity avails itself. A precipitious withdrawal of U.S. ground forces while Kosovo remains unstable and the potential threat to Montenegro looms over the horizon will undermine our interests in Europe and around the world. That is a path down which we do not want to go. 
   Additionally, the implications for NATO must be considered. The United States has a very definite stake in the evolution of a European Security and Defense Identity, as manifested in the efforts by our allies to establish the so-called Eurocorps. It is not in our interests for such a unit, should it take shape and mature into a viable force, to act independent of U.S. influence--influence that would be severely undermined by a unilateral action of the kind contemplated in this bill. 
   Clearly, the failure of our European allies to deploy the numbers of police officers necessary to accomplish the mission of pacifying the region without the continued use of military personnel untrained in such activities has been very troubling. And I would be hard-pressed to defend the conduct of the operation in light of internal U.S. military disagreements regarding the deployability of U.S. troops from their sector to areas like Mitrovica where tensions and the propensity for violence remain high. This has not been a well-conceived mission. But there are worse alternatives, and the approach represented in this bill is one such example. 
   A far better approach, I would suggest, would dispense with the automatic funding cut-offs currently in the bill. Rather than automatic cut-offs in the event presidential certifications fall short, Congress would still be free to offer legislation terminating the U.S. role in this operation. A vote by Congress to act affirmatively to cut off funding, while I would oppose it, is less damaging to U.S. foreign policy than is a triggering mechanism written into law--the object of the authors of the current language. And we would avoid establishing a very dangerous precedent that I would like to think few among us actually wish to see materialize. 
   Mr. President, you do not have to be a supporter of the manner in which the operation in Kosovo has been conducted in order to have serious problems with this language. It is a peacekeeping operation in a region where the commitment to peace remains tenuous. 
   Many in Congress and the public we represent want out of Kosovo. We should never have had to go there to begin with, but for the unwillingness of our European friends and allies to act swiftly and decisively to prevent a brushfire from becoming a raging inferno. But we should not willingly commit untold damage to our future ability to conduct foreign policy when alternatives may exist. And we should never undercut our forces in the field out of pique that other countries are failing to shoulder their share of the load--especially when the burden-sharing issue has devolved primarily to one centering around the deployment of police officers. 
   We had every right to be angered by what Generals Clark and Reinhardt referred to as the hollowing-out of allied force contingents. The quiet, almost surreptitious withdrawal of soldiers by key allies was not their finest hour. But forceful diplomacy, not congressionally-mandated troop withdrawals, is the answer to such problems. The language in this bill is counterproductive and damaging to U.S. foreign policy. We should not compliment a questionable policy with even worse legislation. I urge my colleagues to support the removal of Section 2410 from the bill and vote yes on the Levin-McCain amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000516</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to co-sponsor this important legislation aimed at reducing youth smoking. This legislation addresses the void in federal regulatory authority over tobacco left by the recent Supreme Court ruling that FDA has no current power to regulate tobacco products. 
   Dr. FRIST provided excellent guidance and leadership on FDA authority in 1998. In this legislation he is continuing that role by proposing legislation which I believe can gain support of enough of our colleagues to actually make this the law. Right now FDA has no authority whatsoever. While I supported the even more stringent measures proposed in 1998, I concur with Senator FRIST that our chief responsibility this year is to pass legislation which will actually result in reductions in the number of kids smoking. We should pass this legislation and see results, not simply talk for several more years about how much more we would like to do. 
   The statistics on youth smoking are clear and alarming: 3000 kids start smoking every day; 1000 of them will die early from smoking related disease; and one of three adolescents is using tobacco by age 18. 
   We're not talking about kids who sneak a cigarette out of their mother's purse. According to a Surgeon General's report 71 percent of youth smokers use tobacco daily, but 90 percent of lifetime smokers take up the habit before the age of 18--the legal age to buy tobacco products in every state in the union--so if we can limit the number of kids smoking, we will eventually decrease the number of adults smoking. 
   Specifically, what the legislation will do is: 
   1. FDA will oversee ingredients in tobacco products to ensure that they are adulterated with ``putrid'' or ``poisonous substances,'' and may regulate the manufacturing process to require the sanitary conditions one would normally expect in dealing with agricultural products. 
   2. It includes the very stringent and specific warning labeling requirements from the 1998 legislation. FDA will have the authority to revise and enforce labeling requirements, and to ensure that tobacco products are not misbranded or misrepresented to the public. 
   3. FDA will serve as the clearinghouse for information about tobacco products, the ingredients used by manufacturers, and will approve new products and formulas to ensure that they protect public health. 
   4. FDA will have the authority to establish advertising and access limitations designed to ensure that kids are not the target of marketing by tobacco companies, and to prevent kids from easily shoplifting or buying cigarettes. 
   5. It provides a mechanism for lower risk tobacco products to be tested, reviewed and approved. 
   6. It allows FDA to regulate tobacco products and nicotine to decrease the harm caused by them as much as feasible. 
   What the legislation does not do is permit FDA to ban tobacco products directly, or indirectly. That authority remains with Congress. There are an estimated 40-50 million smokers in this country, and it is neither practical nor in the public interest to vest that authority with a federal agency which is unaccountable to the public at large. We do not gain by driving current smokers to black markets. It is better to regulate tobacco products to prevent them from becoming worse and to focus on decreasing the number of kids who take up smoking or using chewing tobacco. 
   The legislation also does not raise prices--it does not raise taxes. No new government programs or agencies are created. No liability issues are addressed. This is simple and straightforward legislation to give the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products and to promulgate regulations to prevent advertising, marketing and access for kids. 
   The legislation does not permit a broad ban or control over advertising. Instead, it vests authority with FDA to regulate advertising aimed at kids. This limitation allows FDA sufficient authority to address Joe Camel type advertising, while providing the best opportunity for success against constitutional challenges. 
   While I strongly advocate against kids smoking, I recognize that it is the right of an adult to make a stupid choice--to smoke--knowing of the consequences. This legislation protects that right. It provides a delicate balance between protecting a person from himself, and letting each individual make individual choices, and suffer the consequences of those choices. 
   This legislation will draw attacks from both sides--from those who think the bill is too stringent, and from those who think the legislation does not go far enough. I say to my friends on both sides, this is a reasonable and practical solution to a serious problem. I urge an end to the posturing and a dedication to making sure that we do not leave this session without providing FDA with some authority over tobacco products. I pledge to both sides that I will work with them to refine the language, to address their legitimate concerns. But, we will have gained nothing if we allow this to become the political football that it became two years ago. 
   Make no mistake, this is not perfect legislation. I would like to do more. But I think it is more important to move forward with this very good proposal than to wait for some distant time, if ever, when we can pass a perfect bill.  
   This legislation is a major step in the right direction. I think we can get enough support to pass it. I support its early consideration and action. 
   By Mrs. BOXER. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000515</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity to address the Senate once again on the subject of military construction projects added to an appropriations bill that were not requested by the Department of Defense. This bill contains almost $900 million in unrequested military construction projects. 
   What makes this bill even more offensive than most pork-laden military construction bills is the fact that, while the Senate is willing to act swiftly to approve these pork-barrel projects, we have failed to act to end the disgraceful situation of more than 12,000 military families forced to use food stamps to make ends meet. For the second year in a row, Congress is on the verge of spending hundreds of millions of dollars for purely parochial reasons, while rejecting a proposal that would cost just $6 million per year to take care of those military families most in need. 
   I am appalled at the extraordinary and inexplicable resistance I have encountered to enacting legislation to get these brave young men and women and their families off food stamps. I am ashamed that the Senate would put hometown construction projects ahead of desperately needed relief for our most junior enlisted personnel. 
   I appreciate the Senate's unanimous expression of support during consideration of the budget resolution for additional funding for food stamp relief in the defense budget, and I hope my colleagues will reiterate that support when I offer an amendment to the defense authorization bill to end the food stamp Army once and for all. 
   Every year, I come to the Senate floor for the express purpose of highlighting programs and projects added to spending bills for primarily parochial reasons. While I recognize that many of the projects added to this bill may be worthwhile, the process by which they were selected violates at least one, if not several, of the criteria set out several years ago to limit just this sort of wasteful spending. 
   I will address the Kosovo language included in this bill at another time. Suffice to say for now that this language, grounded though it may be in an understandable frustration with the Administration and our allies' handling of that contingency, represents foreign policy making by Congress at its worst. This language, certain to prompt a veto of the bill, constitutes a highly questionable approach to solving the problem of burden-sharing and sets a precedent that will damage our credibility abroad for years to come. 
   Particularly objectionable, apart from the obvious funding issues already alluded to, is the addition to this bill of funding provisions and legislation having nothing to do with military construction and clearly not an emergency requiring immediate redress. In this regard, note must be made of Section 2109, which legislates a funding profile for a ship that has not been requested by the Navy and that cannot be built under the expedited process the ship's congressional sponsor seeks to impose. The $8 million added by the Appropriations Committee for the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City, with the proviso that the funds be designated as an ``emergency 
   requirement''--$8 million for the year 2002 Olympics designated as an ``emergency''? It continues to stagger the imagination. It compels a reference to  the old Yogi Berra malapropism about experiencing deja vu all over again. 
   I am also at a loss as to the rationale for including in this bill certain site-specific earmarks like the $300,000 to transfer excess housing to Indian tribes of North and South Dakota. And mention should be made of the usual Buy America restrictions included in the bill, with a notable exception when it is in the interest of important Members of Congress. Section 112, for example, prohibits the use of funds in the bill to award contracts worth more than $1 million to foreign contractors, except when a Marshallese contractor is seeking contracts at Kwajalein. The $7 million in the bill ``to ensure the availability of biometrics technologies'' will require more research. 
   It will be very interesting to discover the motivation behind that little phrase. 
   I would like to point out that the report on this bill was filed late, and thus the information available to Senators about specific projects included in this bill is somewhat limited. 
   We get into an interesting habit of taking up legislation around here without a report available for the Members to read. If history is any guide, however, skepticism regarding many items added to this bill is warranted. Enough is known about the process by which appropriations bills are put together to justify continued outrage at abuse of the system to satisfy parochial considerations. 
   Mr. President, the abuse of the Future Years Defense Plan as a criteria for adding projects to military spending bills is seriously out of control. Witness, for example, the number of projects in this bill that are in the fourth or fifth year of the FYDP and that have had no design work done. At least 17 such projects were added to the bill. While they are listed as executable, should we really be advancing unrequested projects by four and five years at the same time we continue to ignore the disgrace of 12,000 military families on food stamps? 
   It was interesting to see, Mr. President, that the authorization bill for military construction includes a provision equating the term ``Readiness Center'' to the term ``Armory.'' We all enjoy semantic gamesmanship now and again, but if we are going to continue to funnel money back home to National Guard Armories, let's just say so. Let's not exploit the legitimate issue of military readiness that we are finally focused on in order to conduct the same old pork-barrel spending practices that are as much a part of this institution as the collegial colloquialisms that characterize our demeanor on the Senate floor. 
   There are 28 members of the Appropriations Committee. Only two do not have projects added to the appropriations bill. I wonder what happened to the other two. Perhaps the manager of the bill can tell us what occurred there. 
   Those numbers, needless to say, go well beyond the realm of mere coincidence. Of 145 projects added to this bill, 111 are in states represented by Senators on the Appropriations Committee, totaling over $700 million. The $12 million added to the bill for the first phase of an access road in Hawaii, the $25 million added for a Joint Mobility Complex in Alaska, the $4 million added for Army National Guard parking in Kentucky, the $14 million added for a fuel cell maintenance dock in Louisiana, the $4.5 million added for an Army National Guard administration building in Nevada, the $10 million added for an Army National Guard Readiness Center (read: Armory) in North Dakota, the $10 million added for the first phase of a base civil engineer complex in South Dakota, and the $1.4 million for channel dredging in Mississippi, are just a handful of the projects added by members that were not in the budget request. Forts Richardson and Wainwright, both in Alaska, fared particularly well, the latter receiving $300,000 for a trail and $900,000 for a biathlon live fire course--which could only be considered a close cousin to the previously mentioned money for the upcoming Winter Olympics. 
   Yet, many of the Senators whose projects are included in this bill continue to oppose spending just $6 million a year to remove military families from the rolls of those eligible for food stamps. If I sound repetitive, Mr. President, it is out of frustration--frustration at the ability of my colleagues to close their eyes to the disgraceful plight of thousands of our enlisted personnel who don't make enough money to feed themselves and their families. 
   I believe I have made my point. As usual, I labor under no illusions regarding the impact my comments will have on the way we do business here. I have in the past attempted legislative recourse to pork-barrel spending, and I will do so again. But the history of votes on such efforts causes me to exercise that right sparingly. My self-restraint is simply an acknowledgment that I represent a small minority of this body. Wasteful and unnecessary spending continues because most Members of Congress truly believe that it is one of their primary reasons for being here. I submit, Mr. President, that a wide line exists between serving one's constituents in the context of our nation's best interests and simply funneling money back home because that's how we remind our constituents to vote for us again. 
   About 2 weeks ago, there was a study completed concerning the deplorable state of the U.S. Army. More captains are leaving the U.S. Army than at anytime in history. We will shortly have a Senate authorization bill, as well as this and other appropriations bills. They don't address this problem. I can guarantee those captains aren't leaving the Army because they need $12 million for the first phase of an access road in Hawaii, or $25 million for a joint mobility complex in Alaska, or $4 million for Army National Guard parking in Kentucky. 
   If the Republican leadership and the chairmen of these committees continue to spend taxpayers' dollars in this profligate manner, sooner or later the American people will repudiate those actions. I hope it will be sooner rather than later. 
   The thing that is particularly appalling to me is that this appropriations profligate spending of unauthorized, unnecessary, wasteful pork barrel spending continues at a greater rate every year than the previous year. It will stop sooner or later. I believe it will stop sooner because this bill is a classic example of the abrogation of our responsibilities to average taxpayers, those who are not represented here in Washington, DC. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000511</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I support passage of H.R. 434, the Trade and Development Act of 2000. This legislation includes the African Growth and Opportunity Act, legislation to grant Caribbean countries tariff parity with the North American Free Trade Agreement, and other legislation that will use trade incentives to promote U.S. global economic interests. 
   I have been a longtime supporter of many components of this legislation, especially the African Growth and Opportunity Act and legislation giving NAFTA parity to our Caribbean allies. This legislation sets an important precedent for future U.S. foreign policy by emphasizing trade incentives over foreign aid. It makes clear that a developing African or Caribbean country must pursue democratic and market-oriented reforms in order to receive benefits. This incentive-based approach will promote democratic government and economic reforms among nations home to more than one billion people. Recent developments in both Zimbabwe and Sierra Leone show that there is much work that still has to be done in Africa to establish stable and effective political and economic institutions. My hope is that this legislation will encourage these developing countries to continue to make progress toward this important goal. 
   This legislation has been improved since it passed the Senate last year. The conference report gives greater incentive to the development of local African and Caribbean industry by allowing conditional duty-free treatment of apparel made from regional fabrics. While I hope that a future Congress will remove the restrictive conditions on this tariff treatment in order to more fully assist the development of regional industry, I believe that this liberalized tariff-rate quota will promote economic growth and stability in the affected regions. This legislation urges the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and Export-Import Bank to promote investment in Africa. Greater American investment in Africa creates greater exposure to American political, economic, labor and environmental principles. Provisions of this legislation also welcome the people of Albania and Kyrgyzstan into the international economy, which I believe is beneficial to American interests. Finally, I am glad that this legislation includes a provision to prohibit the importation of products made from child labor into the United States. This barbaric practice is a relic of earlier, less enlightened times that should be extinguished. 
   It is unconscionable that the conference dropped a provision that would have made HIV/AIDS medicine more available to the African people. The AIDS epidemic throughout 
   Africa is a crisis, which impedes political reform and economic development in that region. We have a moral obligation to help relieve this health epidemic. I am a strong advocate of free trade and private enterprise. However, as a practical matter, there is little profit to be made or lost in assisting with a health crisis in poor undeveloped countries. Therefore, I believe that we should have included the Senate provision in order to ensure greater distribution of HIV/AIDS drugs to Africa. Since it is no longer included in this legislation, I urge the Congress to enact legislation that will establish a comprehensive solution to the HIV/AIDS problem in Africa that includes the greater distribution of American drugs and medical practices to combat HIV/AIDS. The AIDS crisis in Africa must be solved if we are to achieve any lasting development in the region. 
   I also have concerns that this legislation will establish some poor precedents. It is my understanding that there is not yet a formal estimate by the Congressional Budget Office for this legislation, so we do not know its cost. I am very disturbed that whatever the costs of the legislation, it will be paid for out of the federal budget surplus. This is not wise policy. The Constitution clearly gives the Congress the ``power of the purse'' and we must use this power judiciously. I remain dedicated to the principle that the Senate should only consider legislation that has both a known cost and specific provisions paying for it. The version of this legislation that we considered in the Senate in November included provisions to pay for it. The Congress should close tax shelters and loopholes and cut wasteful government spending in order to pay for new programs. As fiscal conservatives, we know that this surplus exists only because we have made careful choices. We must now use this surplus to shore up Social Security and Medicare, pay down the national debt, and cut taxes--not spend it on more government programs. 
   I am also concerned by some of the provisions in this legislation. While I understand that the current tariff  structure puts American suit manufacturers at an unfair advantage, remedying this inequity deserves more study by the Senate. I do not favor the tariff rebate provisions. No compelling argument has been made to support a Wool Research, Development and Promotion Trust Fund that costs $2.25 million each year. I am also concerned by provisions included in the conference report that allow Oregon nuclear power plant workers to apply for Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits after their eligibility has expired, and allow a company with operations in Connecticut and Missouri to obtain a refund on duties it paid on imports of nuclear fuel assemblies. In addition, I have reservations about using ``budgetary gimmicks'' to change the schedule of payments of rum excise taxes to Puerto Rico. These revisions are unrelated to trade opportunities for Africa and the Caribbean. All of these measures should be examined in the usual authorization process to ensure that they are considered on merit, and not foisted on the taxpayers by special interests. 
   In conclusion, although I disagree with some of the inadvisable provisions in this bill, I support this legislation. I believe that, on balance, it is an important milestone in American policy with the developing world, which I hope will encourage the spread of American political and economic values. I will not allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good. However, Congress should ensure that we are more fiscally responsible in funding legislation. It is important that we write responsible legislation that will help promote the American principles of democracy, the rule of law, and a market-oriented economic system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today I join with my friends and colleagues, Senators BOB KERREY and PAT MOYNIHAN, to introduce a very important bill that will serve as the catalyst for putting aside partisan politics and beginning the process of protecting, preserving and reforming the Social Security system. 
   Our bill establishes principles and a process for Social Security reform. The bill sets forth broadly stated objectives for comprehensive reform of the Social Security system that should be supported by every one of us. It establishes a bipartisan Congressional Commission charged with developing a reform plan consistent with those objectives. The Commission is required to submit a detailed legislative proposal to Congress by September 2001, and the bill includes a process for expedited Congressional action on the Commission's recommendations by the end of next year. 
   Mr. President, for far too long, Social Security has been used by politicians  on both sides of the aisle to polarize, manipulate and scare American voters. The mere mention of ``Social Security reform'' has become a lightning rod for the fears of retirees and workers alike about their financial futures. 
   Seniors, particularly low-income seniors, are vulnerable to exaggerations and hyperbolic rhetoric about their retirement benefits. They are often frightened into believing they will be homeless, penniless and starving if Congress reforms Social Security. We all know that is simply not true. The benefits seniors receive today are not the issue--nobody wants to take them away. And it is disgraceful that some would stoop so low as to play on the fears of older Americans. 
   The real issue driving Social Security reform--an issue that is only frightening when left unresolved--is how to strengthen and protect the system so that it is available for future retirees, without putting an unfair financial burden on current and future workers. We have wasted too much time on partisan politics when we should have been working together to find a solution to the financial problems facing our nation's retirement system. We can no longer afford to just spout rhetoric about the need for reform, then deliberately avoid taking any concrete action because of fears about how it may affect us in our next election. 
   Social Security reform is not just a political problem; it is a serious economic problem for millions of Americans who are counting on a retirement system that is in dire financial straits. It's time to step up to our common responsibilities, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as servants of the American people. 
   That is why I have joined with Senator KERREY and Senator MOYNIHAN to introduce this bill to require the Congress to act, and act soon, on legislation to preserve, protect, and reform Social Security. As my colleagues know, Bob KERREY and Pat MOYNIHAN have worked tirelessly for many years to highlight the urgent need for reform of the Social Security system, and they have succeeded in making the American people, if not the Congress, recognize that reforming our nation's retirement system must be a national priority. 
   Our bill sets out a timetable for action on Social Security reform by the end of next year--November 2001. 
   First, the bipartisan, bicameral Social Security Protection, Preservation, and Reform Commission must be appointed by February 1, 2001, and begin work within a month. The Commission will be made up of 12 Members of Congress, selected in equal numbers by the Party Leaders in both Houses. In addition, the Commission of Social Security will serve as an ex-officio, non-voting member. 
   The Commission is given a reasonable period of time--six months--to conduct hearings, review the myriad of reform proposals already in the public domain, and research new ideas to put together a comprehensive reform plan that meets the objectives set out in this bill. 
   Those broadly stated objectives represent the most basic requirements of meaningful Social Security reform:  
   Guaranteed 75-year solvency of the system; 
   Payment of all benefits to which retirees or workers are entitled; 
   A reasonable rate of return on payroll tax contributions for all generations; 
   An opportunity to participate in private investment accounts; 
   A ``lockbox'' for the Social Security Trust Funds to protect from spending raids; and 
   Use of non-Social Security surplus revenues to shore up the system while implementing reform.  
   The Commission is required to submit its recommendations to Congress in the form of a detailed legislative proposal by September 1, 2001, and the bill's expedited procedures are designed to ensure a final vote on Social Security reform by mid-November 2001. The strict time lines in the bill are designed to ensure that this vitally important issue is dealt with promptly--not pushed aside yet again, to be solved later. 
   Too often, election year politics stand as an obstacle to any meaningful action in Congress. This proposal is carefully crafted to avoid this. The bill is designed to ensure that Congress can complete action on Social Security reform by the end of 2001, before being consumed by the political sparring of an election year. 
   Mr. President, each year that reform of the Social Security system is postponed, restoring solvency to the trust funds becomes more expensive and places a greater 
   financial burden on current and future workers. This ``principles and process'' legislation is, we believe, the only way to force Congress to pass a Social Security reform proposal that will protect and preserve our nation's retirement system and also allow more Americans to share in our nation's prosperity. 
   Mr. President, let me take a moment to comment on the objectives, or principles, included in this bill. The objectives are intended as minimum guidelines for the Commission's work, not as a comprehensive blueprint for Social Security reform. We intentionally stated these objectives as broadly as possible in order to give the Commission the opportunity to develop a comprehensive plan without micro-managing their every decision. 
   I believe very strongly that all promised benefits must be guaranteed under any reform proposal, both for those currently receiving Social Security benefits and those who are working and paying into Social Security today. In addition, I will work to ensure that Social Security reform does not unfairly burden today's workers by increasing payroll taxes from their current levels. And I do not believe it would be fair to further increase the eligibility age for receiving Social Security benefits. 
   I am a strong proponent of allowing workers to invest a portion of their payroll taxes in personal retirement accounts that will provide a much greater return than the current Social Security system. This will afford all Americans the opportunity to have greater personal wealth creation in addition to a minimum Social Security benefit. 
   Mr. President, I was very disappointed that Vice President GORE is continuing to use scare tactics about Social Security reform. Instead of putting the retirement needs of all Americans ahead of politics, the Vice President seems content to exacerbate the financial burden facing our children and grandchildren by ignoring the real structural problems of the program. By using politically intimidating rhetoric, the Vice President is seriously harming bipartisan efforts in Congress to put the needs of working Americans ahead of partisan politics. 
   Let's look at the facts. The savings rate in America today is appallingly low. Many low-income families have no savings at all, and a large number of middle-income Americans have less than $2,000 in the bank. 
   Because of this low savings rate, many Americans rely heavily on Social Security benefits for their retirement income. But economists agree that the rate of return on Social Security payroll tax contributions is abysmal--somewhere between 1 and 2 percent. Most workers today are unaware that the payroll taxes they contribute to Social Security may not provide anywhere near the income they expect when they retire. In fact, if nothing is done to reform the Social Security system, younger workers will receive nothing at all in return for paying more than 6 percent of their earnings every pay day into the Social Security system. 
   Allowing every worker to invest a portion of the payroll taxes they already pay in a 
   higher-yielding private account would make it possible for families on very tight budgets to save more for their futures. 
   Even the most anemic savings account today realizes almost 3 percent, and secure short-term certificates of deposit return almost 6 percent. Over the past 50 years, the stock market has gained an average of more than 6 percent per year, with 20 to 30 percent gains in several recent years. 
   Proposals to allow every American to choose to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes in a low- to moderate-risk private investment account are designed to give even the lowest-income families the opportunity to share in our Nation's economic prosperity and create wealth for themselves and their children. 
   In the long run, diverting a portion of payroll taxes to personal retirement accounts will bring more money into the Social Security system. In the short run, it will cost money. Using a significant portion of the non-Social  Security surplus revenues to shore up the Social Security system will ensure that current retirees receive their full benefits while reforms are implemented. At the same time, reducing the financial insolvency of the Social Security system through reform will also reduce our national debt. 
   Mr. President, we all have opinions about how the Social Security program should or could be reformed, and I will have more to say about specific aspects of Social Security reform when I introduce a comprehensive reform bill later this month. Every one of these ideas deserves fair and full consideration as we work together to restore solvency to our Nation's retirement system. It is clear that we need a formal process and effective deadlines to review these ideas and develop and pass a real, meaningful plan to reform Social Security. That is exactly what this bill will achieve. 
   Mr. President, Social Security is a sacred compact with workers and retirees that must be honored. The Congress has an obligation to develop a real, meaningful reform plan that strengthens and protects the Social Security program for our Nation's seniors without placing an unfair burden on America's workers. And we must do it sooner rather than later. 
   I urge my colleagues to put aside partisan politics and work with us to get this process legislation passed and begin the business of reforming Social Security now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing a bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2001 for the Maritime Administration. The introduction of this bill continues the Senate Commerce Committee's commitment to insuring our nations maritime industry can compete in the world market. 
   The bill contains the authorization of appropriations for the Maritime Administration [MarAd] for fiscal year 2001 covering two appropriations accounts: (1) operations and training and (2) the loan guarantee program authorized by title XI of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936. Operations and training activities include the costs incurred by MarAd headquarters and regional staffs in the administration and direction of programs that support the American maritime industry. These funds also cover operations of the United States Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA) and assistance to the six state maritime academies. The title XI loan guarantee program for shipbuilding authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to guarantee private sector financing for the construction or reconstruction of U.S.-flag vessels in U.S. shipyards. 
   Additionally, the bill amends Title IX of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936 to provide a waiver to eliminate the three year period that bulk and breakbulk vessels newly registered under the U.S. flag must wait in order to carry government-impelled cargo. The bill also provides a one year window of opportunity for vessels newly registered under the U.S.-flag to enter into the cargo preference trade without waiting the traditional three year period. 
   Finally, the bill provides the Secretary of Transportation the authority, regardless of any other law, to scrap 39 obsolete vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet that pose an immediate hazard to navigation and the environment and to scrap additional vessels if the Secretary determines they pose a hazard. It requires the Secretary to report to Congress within one year of the date of enactment with a plan to dispose of the remaining obsolete vessels and extends the deadline for completing disposal of all obsolete vessels by three years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will reluctantly vote against the Conference Report on the Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2001. Although the budget resolution includes most of the mechanisms approved by the Senate to ensure better budgetary discipline, the resolution fails to address the pressing issues of the impending financial insolvency of Social Security and Medicare, and the massive burden of debt that will be passed along to our children and grandchildren. 
   Mr. President, for the first time in history, economic projections show a surplus of nearly $1.9 trillion over the next ten years, exclusive of the surplus in the Social Security Trust Funds. At the same time, we know that the Social Security system is projected to be bankrupt by 2037 and Medicare will be broke in 2023, leaving millions of elderly Americans without the promised benefits they need to live comfortably in their retirement years. 
   Yet, this budget resolution uses none of the surplus to shore up either Social Security or Medicare. Nor does it apply any significant portion of the surplus to reducing the burden on future generations of our $5.7 trillion national debt. In fact, debt will actually continue to accumulate because the resolution allows most of the non-Social Security surplus to be spent on more big government programs. 
   Mr. President, as I traveled around the country over the past several months, I listened to the American people. Everywhere I went, they told me that they wanted us to protect and preserve Social Security and Medicare. They said they wanted to pay down the debt. I proposed a plan to use the bulk of the non-Social Security surplus to do what the people told me they wanted to do, and still provide much-needed tax relief to those who need it most--lower- and middle-income families. Unfortunately, this budget spends too much and saves too little for the future, and I cannot support it. 
   Mr. President, there are some very good provisions in the budget resolution. 
   I support the increase of $4.5 billion in defense spending over the President's budget request, which represents real growth in the defense budget for the first time in many years. I am pleased that the conference includes the $25 million added to the defense budget to get 12,000 enlisted families off of food stamps and end the disgrace of the food stamp Army once and for all. For too many years, the Clinton Administration has neglected the people who volunteer for military service. With this increase, and money freed up from eliminating waste and inefficiency in the defense budget, we can make progress toward restoring the morale and readiness of our Armed Forces. 
   The addition of $1.9 billion to the budget request for veterans health care is the amount identified in the Independent Budget of the veterans groups as the minimum necessary to provide 
   appropriate care for our veterans. I hope the Congress sees fit this year to restore the ``broken promise'' of free lifetime medical care that was made to our nation's oldest veterans, and I intend to work with my colleagues to ensure all of our military personnel have access to the quality, affordable health care they deserve. 
   Many of the specific funding assumptions in the resolution are laudable, but I disagree with funding most of these increases from the surplus. I have identified billions of dollars of pork-barrel spending in annual appropriations bills over the past several years--programs that are wasteful, inefficient, or low-priority. Because of the compelling need to deal with the problems in Social Security and Medicare, we should look within the budget to ferret out waste in order to fund higher priority requirements, rather than spend the entire surplus on more government. 
   Some of the objectionable provisions in this resolution are earmarks that would qualify as pork-barrel spending if they were included in an appropriations bill. For example, the resolution identifies $700 million to construct, or site and design, more than ten new courthouses in 2001. It assumes $25 million will be set aside for the construction of a Metro station on New York Avenue in the District of Columbia. And it earmarks $510 million for NOAA's Pacific coastal salmon recovery program. As I have always said, I am not making a judgment on the merits of these programs, but their mention in this resolution leads me to assume that they will show up as earmarks in the appropriations process --a process not noted for its reliance on merit over politics. 
   I also note the significant cut in the International Affairs budget in the resolution, which is $2.7 billion less than the President's request and $2.2 billion below last year's level. I am concerned that, as in past years, the foreign affairs budget is seen as an easy target for cuts to offset spending in other areas. Clearly, the United States is and must remain a global power with global interests, both related to our security and that of our allies, as well as our economic health. Our continued international involvement requires not just a strong military, but a robust diplomacy. I will be looking carefully at the Foreign Operations Appropriations bill to ensure that the programs that are cut to meet this budget target are appropriate and do not in any way hinder our ability to influence world affairs to our advantage. 
   Mr. President, I am pleased to note that the resolution includes several Senate-passed provisions to ensure Congress complies with the revenue and spending levels in the resolution to limit the amount of emergency spending and budgetary gimmicks, including: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably nomination lists which were printed in the Records of the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar, that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the King and Tsiorvas Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2000. This bill proposes to reauthorize the Pipeline Safety Act, which expires at the end of this fiscal year (FY), through fiscal year 2003. It is intended to strengthen and improve both federal and state pipeline safety efforts and heighten public awareness of pipeline safety. I am pleased to be joined in sponsoring this bill by Senator MURRAY and Senator GORTON. 
   Many of these issues came to the forefront as a result of a tragic accident that occurred in Bellingham, Washington, last June 10, 1999. An underground hazardous liquid pipeline ruptured and 277,000 gallons of gasoline leaked into a creek. Two 10-year-old boys, Wade King and Stephen Tsiorvas, had been playing by the creek into which the gasoline flowed. The gasoline was accidently ignited and a massive fire ensued. Both boys died as a result of their injuries. Another young man, Liam Wood, was fishing at the creek the same day. He was overcome by the gasoline fumes, slipped into unconsciousness, and subsequently drowned. 
   Mr. President, in addition to these needless deaths, the pipeline accident caused destructive fires and environmental damage for miles. Since the June accident, many concerned individuals have come forward and dedicated themselves to finding ways to improve and strengthen the Department of Transportation pipeline safety program. The Senators from Washington State have introduced one bill. Other pipeline safety measures have been introduced in the House. Yesterday, the Administration submitted its own pipeline safety reauthorization proposal. These bills contain many provisions I believe merit Congressional consideration and some of those provisions are included in the legislation I am introducing today. 
   It is my intention, as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, to chair a full Committee hearing on Pipeline Safety in the near future. I hope to report a reauthorization measure to the full Senate before the Memorial Day Recess. In that effort, I will be seeking input from public safety advocates, the National Transportation Safety Board, the DOT-Inspector General, the Department of Transportation, industry and others interested in promoting pipeline safety. 
   Mr. President, currently the Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS) within the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA) oversees the transportation of about 65 percent of the petroleum and most of the natural gas transported in the United States. OPS regulates the day-to-day safety of 2,000 gas pipeline operators with more than 1.9 million miles of pipeline, as well as more than 200 hazardous liquid operators and 165,000 miles of pipelines. Given the immense array of pipelines that traverse our nation, reauthorization of the pipeline safety program is, quite simply, critical to public safety.  
   The safety record of pipeline transportation is generally quite good. However, accidents do occur and when they occur, they can be devastating, as was the case last June. 
   Last month, the Senate Commerce Committee held a field hearing on this accident in Bellingham, Washington, and the Committee, as I mentioned, is committed to moving a reauthorization bill through the legislative process as soon as possible. We must act to help improve pipeline safety and prevent tragedies like that which occurred in Bellingham. 
   The bill I am introducing includes a number of provisions intended to strengthen and improve pipeline safety. It also is designed to increase State oversight authority and facilitate greater public information sharing at the local community level. 
   Two areas that warrant DOT's immediate attention, in my view, concern safety recommendations that have already been issued by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and the Inspector General (IG). The Department's responsiveness to NTSB pipeline safety recommendations for years has been poor at best. While current law requires the Secretary to respond to NTSB recommendations within 90 days from receipt, there are no similar requirements at RSPA. The problem is serious, Mr. President. I am aware of one case in particular where a NTSB recommendation sat at DOT's pipeline office for more than 900 days before even a letter so much as acknowledging receipt was sent. Such blatant disregard for the important work of the NTSB is intolerable. Therefore, this legislation statutorily requires RSPA and OPS to respond to each pipeline safety recommendation it receives from the NTSB and to provide a detailed report on what action it plans to initiate to adopt the recommendation. 
   In addition, the bill would require the Department to implement the recommendations made last month by the IG to further improve pipeline safety. The DOT IG found several glaring safety gaps at OPS and it is incumbent upon us all to do all we can to insure that the Department affirmatively acts on these critical problems. 
   The bill would also address the issue of training of pipeline operators. A number of safety interests, including the NTSB, have long emphasized the need to improve operator training. In recognition that a one-size-fits-all approach on this issue is not feasible due to the far different operating and maintenance requirements governing pipeline operations, this bill would require each operator to submit a training plan to the Secretary keyed to his or her particular operation. The Secretary would be expected to review the plans and work with operators to ensure a consistent safety level is maintained. The bill also directs the Secretary to issue regulations to ensure periodic inspections of pipelines and provides authority to the Secretary to shut down operations which are determined to pose an imminent hazard. 
   Another critical component of this reauthorization bill focuses on increased public education efforts, enhanced emergency response preparedness, and community right to know. It also includes provisions to increase state oversight of pipeline safety concerns. While some 
   may prefer to reduce the federal role over pipeline safety and substantially increase the authority of State regulation, I believe such an approach would be short-sighted. While the concept of preemption by states may seem an attractive solution for some pipeline safety concerns, it is not the best approach. After all, pipelines play a vital role in both interstate and international commerce. A mishmash of state laws regarding the construction, maintenance, training, and operation of pipelines would certainly hamper commerce and would likely not improve safety. In fact, accident records show that more than 70 percent of pipeline transportation injuries and fatalities have occurred on intrastate lines, pipelines under the direct responsibility of the States. 
   Recently, the U.S. Courts have upheld the need for consistent standards in interstate and international commerce. However, in the Courts ruling, they did not restrict the right of the states to take action altogether. In fact, states already have considerable power to regulate pipelines and promote safety through the Federal/State Partnership program. Additionally, the states ability to promulgate laws regarding ``one call'' can do more to prevent accidents than any other action. States already play an important role and my bill would build on that role and permit the states to join the Secretary in efforts to oversee interstate pipeline transportation and promote emergency preparedness and accident prevention. 
   The bill also addresses the need to improve data collection and analysis. For more than 25 years, the NTSB has identified major deficiencies and recommended changes to RSPA's pipeline accident data collection process. This bill would ensure RSPA take the action necessary to address these identified problems and improve its data collection and use. 
   In addition, the bill calls attention to the critical role of innovative technology in promoting safety. Specifically, the bill directs the Secretary to focus the department's research and development programs to address technology that can detect pipe material defects and alternative pipeline inspection and monitory technologies that cannot accommodate current technologies. Finally, the bill would increase funding to carry out pipeline safety and state grant programs through fiscal year 2003. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues attention to this important safety issue and look forward to bringing a reauthorization bill to the full Senate for consideration in the near future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am an original cosponsor of Senator HUTCHISON's bill to improve aviation security. Our colleague from Texas brings unique expertise to this issue as a former member of the National Transportation Safety Board. I want to thank her for her diligence in this area over the past several years as a member of the Commerce Committee Aviation Subcommittee. 
   Among other things, the Airport Security Improvement Act of 2000 would make pre-employment criminal background checks mandatory for all baggage screeners at airports, not just those who have significant gaps in their employment histories. It would require screeners to undergo extensive training requirements, since U.S. training standards fall far short of European standards. The legislation would also seek tighter enforcement against unauthorized access to airport secure areas. 
   I cannot overemphasize the importance of adequate training and competency checks for the folks who check airline baggage for weapons and bombs. The turnover rate among this workforce is as high as 400 percent at one of the busiest airports in the country! The work is hard, and the pay is low. Obviously, this legislation does not establish minimum pay for security screeners. By asking their employers to invest more substantially in training, however, we hope that they will also work to ensure a more stable and competent workforce. 
   Several aviation security experts appeared before the Aviation Subcommittee at a hearing last week. They raised additional areas of concern that I expect to address as this bill proceeds through the legislative process. For instance, government and industry officials alike agree that the list of ``disqualifying'' crimes that are uncovered in background checks needs to be expanded. Most of us find it surprising that an individual convicted of assault with a deadly weapon, burglary, larceny, or possession of drugs would not be disqualified from employment as an airport baggage screener. 
   Fortunately, this bill is not drafted in response to loss of life resulting from a terrorist incident. Even so, it is clear that even our most elementary security safeguards may be inadequate, as evidenced by the loaded gun that a passenger recently discovered in an airplane lavatory during flight. 
   I look forward to working with Senator HUTCHISON, as well as experts in both government and industry circles, to make sure that any legislative proposal targets resources in the most effective manner. By and large, security at U.S. airports is good, and airport and airline efforts clearly have a deterrent effect. What is also clear, however, is that we cannot relax our efforts as airline travel grows, and weapons technologies become more sophisticated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000412</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the National Transportation Safety Board Amendments Act of 2000. This bill proposes to reauthorize the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) through fiscal year 2003. 
   The NTSB is an independent agency charged with determining the probable cause of transportation accidents and promoting transportation safety. Among its many duties, the Board investigates accidents, conducts safety studies, and evaluates the effectiveness of other government agencies' programs for preventing transportation accidents. In my view, the NTSB is one of our nation's most critical governmental agencies and I want to commend its excellent work. 
   Since its inception in 1967, the NTSB has investigated more than 110,000 aviation accidents, at least 10,000 other accidents in the surface modes and issued more than 11,000 safety recommendations. The Board's commitment to accident investigation and the development of safety recommendations to prevent accidents from recurring is indeed admirable. The NTSB staff works tirelessly, and in many cases, under the least desirable circumstances. 
   The NTSB's authorization expired last September. The Board has submitted a reauthorization proposal and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation held a hearing last year to review the Board's request. The reauthorization legislation I am introducing is intended to provide the Board with the resources necessary to carry out its important safety investigatory duties and provide further assistance to the Board in its efforts to fulfill its mission. 
   The legislation would authorize the Board for Fiscal years 2000-2003. As the Board requested, the bill would provide significant funding increases over the level currently authorized. The Chairman of the Board has testified that these funds are necessary in order to insure that the NTSB continues to make timely and accurate determinations of the probable causes of accidents, formulate realistic and feasible safety recommendations, and respond to the families of victims of transportation disasters in a professional and compassionate manner following those tragedies. The legislation also would raise the Board's emergency fund to the level commensurate to that which has been appropriated in recent years. 
   The bill includes language requested by the Safety Board to require the withholding from public disclosure of voice and video recorder information for all modes of transportation comparable to the protections already statutorily provided for cockpit voice recorders (CVRs). 
   This provision would be an important step in ensuring that railroad, maritime, and motor vehicle recorders are properly protected from unwarranted disclosure or alternative use. 
   The bill provides the Board with authority to establish reasonable rates of overtime pay for its employees directly involved in accident-related work both on-scene and investigative. This authority was requested in acknowledgment of the extensive time spent by NTSB staff in carrying out their duties and the Board's inability under current law to more fairly compensate these employees. I want to remind my colleagues that the Federal Aviation Administration and the Coast Guard already have been provided authority by Congress to administer similar personnel payment matters. 
   The Board's budget has dramatically increased over the years and this measure includes a number of financial accountability provisions. Currently, the NTSB is one of the few agencies of the Federal Government not required to have a Chief Financial Office (CFO). While the Board on its own initiative does have a CFO, this bill would make that position permanent. The legislation also statutorily authorizes the Chairman to establish annual travel budgets to govern Board Member non-accident travel. After concerns were raised last year over excessive Board Member travel by myself and others, the Chairman established annual budgets and procedures governing non-accident-related travel. His actions were an important step in addressing fiscal accountability at the Board and I believe  they should be continued in the future. Further, the bill would give the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation the authority to review the financial management and business operations of the Board to determine compliance with applicable Federal laws, rules, and regulations. 
   I have only taken time today to highlight a few sections of the bill. But I assure my colleagues that there are other provisions in the legislation designed to give the Safety Board the necessary tools to continue to fulfill its critical safety mission. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000411</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am an original cosponsor of Senator HUTCHISON'S bill to improve aviation security. Our colleague from Texas brings unique expertise to this issue as a former member of the National Transportation Safety Board. I want to thank her for her diligence in this area over the past several years as a member of the Commerce Committee Aviation Subcommittee. 
   Among other things, Senator HUTCHISON's bill would make pre-employment criminal background checks mandatory for all baggage screeners at airports, not just those who have significant gaps in their employment histories. It would require screeners to undergo extensive training requirements, since U.S. training standards fall far short of European standards. The legislation would also seek tighter enforcement against unauthorized access to airport secure areas.  
   I cannot overemphasize the importance of adequate training and competency checks for the folks who check airline baggage for weapons and bombs. The turnover rate among this workforce is as high as 400 percent at one of the busiest airports in the country. The work is hard, and the pay is low. Obviously, this legislation does not establish minimum pay for security screeners. By asking their employers to invest more substantially in training, however, we hope that they will also work to ensure a more stable and competent workforce. 
   Several aviation security experts appeared before the Aviation Subcommittee at a hearing last week. They raised additional areas of concern that I expect to address as this bill proceeds through the legislative process. For instance, government and industry officials alike agree that the list of ``disqualifying'' crimes that are uncovered in background checks needs to be expanded. Most of us find it surprising that an individual convicted of assault with a deadly weapon, burglary, larceny, or possession of drugs would not be disqualified from employment as an airport baggage screener. 
   Fortunately, this bill is not drafted in response to loss of life resulting from a terrorist incident. Even so, it is clear that even our most elementary security safeguards may be inadequate, as evidenced by the loaded gun that a passenger recently discovered in an airplane lavatory during flight. 
   I look forward to working with Senator HUTCHISON, as well as experts in both government and industry circles, to make sure that any legislative proposal targets resources in the most effective manner. By and large, security at U.S. airports is good, and airport and airline efforts clearly have a deterrent effect. What is also clear, however, is that we cannot relax our efforts as airline travel grows, and weapons technologies become more sophisticated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000407</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to once again remind my colleagues of the very precarious financial condition of the entire Social Security system and the urgent need for a serious, bipartisan effort to reform and revitalize this cornerstone of many Americans' retirement planning. 
   The only way to achieve real reform of the Social Security system is to work together in a bipartisan manner. It's time to abandon the irresponsible game of playing partisan politics with Social Security. Democrats will have to stop using the issue to scare seniors into voting against Republicans. Republicans will have to resist using Social Security revenues to finance tax cuts. And both parties must stop raiding the Trust Funds to waste retirement dollars on more government spending. We must face up to our responsibilities, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as elected representatives of the American people with a common obligation to protect their interests. 
   We have an obligation to ensure that Social Security benefits are paid as promised, without putting an unfair burden on today's workers. 
   We also have an obligation to talk straight with working Americans about the true financial status of the Social Security program. This means providing each worker with honest information about the financial status of the Social Security program including the real value of their personal retirement benefits. 
   Under the current system, hard working Americans--young and old--are not receiving straight, honest information regarding the actual financial status of the Social Security program including how much it is receiving in payroll taxes and how much is needed to give promised benefits to seniors. This includes clearly telling Americans exactly when the program will no longer have sufficient funds for paying full benefits. 
   Furthermore, we must begin providing working Americans with accurate, easy to understand information regarding the average rate of return they can expect to receive from Social Security as compared to the amount of taxes an individual pays into the program. It is only fair to be straight with everyone and let them know the true facts about how much they will pay in payroll taxes and what the limited return will be on their contributions. 
   It is time for us to talk straight to Americans about Social Security and begin working together in a bipartisan fashion to make the necessary changes to strengthen and save the nation's retirement program for the seniors of today and tomorrow. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I understand that the pending amendment has been set aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator DOMENICI and Senator REID for allowing me to propose this amendment. I don't intend to take a very long time. I know there are many other pending amendments. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce an amendment to the Congressional budget resolution for fiscal years 2001 through 2005 that would provide the funding necessary to end the ``food stamp army'' once and for all. 
   This amendment increases the defense budget by $28 million over five years--an average of less than $6 million per year--to pay for an additional allowance of $180 a month to military families who are eligible for food stamps. Additionally, the Congressional Budget Office estimates the amendment would save millions of dollars in the food stamp program by removing servicemembers from the food stamp rolls for good. 
   Last week, I introduced S. 2322, the ``Remove Servicemembers from Food Stamps Act of 2000'', that will provide junior enlisted servicemembers who are eligible for food stamps in the paygrade E-1 through E-5 an additional subsistence allowance of $180 a month. A not-yet-published Department of Defense report estimates that approximately 6,300 servicemembers receive food stamps, while the General Accounting Office and Congressional Research Service place this number at around 13,500. Regardless of this disparity, the fact that just one servicemember is on food stamps is a national disgrace, and this situation cries out for repair. 
   In recent years, annual military pay increases have barely kept pace with inflation--lagging at least 8 percent behind the pay increases in the private sector during the same period. To put the impact of such trends in plain dollar amounts, the lowest enlisted rank, an E-1, currently earns as little as $12,067 per year, plus $2,766 in allowances, which is well below the poverty level for a family of four. In fact, the  number of men and women in the military earning less than $20,000 per year constitutes 45 percent of the Army, 46 percent of the Marine Corps, 26 percent of the Navy, and 18 percent of the Air Force. Of these servicemembers, 111,600 have families and 6,515 are single parents. 
   Because of this serious disparity in military versus civilian pay, the Congress took action last year to significantly increase military pay across the board. The Senate-passed military pay bill, S. 4, included the same food stamp relief plan in S. 2322, and it was also approved by the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization bill. However, I was greatly disappointed when the Senate-approved food stamp relief provision was rejected by conferees from the House of Representatives despite the strong support of Admiral Jay Johnson, the Chief of Naval Operations, and General Jim Jones, the Commandant of the Marine Corps. With thousands of military families on food stamps, and possibly thousands more eligible for the program, I cannot understand the Congress' refusal to rectify this problem in last year's National Defense Authorization Act. 
   It is outrageous that Admirals and Generals received a 17 percent pay raise last year, while enlisted families continue to line up for free food and furniture. Last year, we poured hundreds of millions of dollars into programs the military did not request and that were not identified by the Joint Chiefs as a priority item. It is difficult to reconcile how Congress could waste $7.4 billion on pork-barrel spending in the defense budget last year alone, yet refuse to provide a few million dollars to get military families off food stamps. 
   It is unconscionable that the men and women who are willing to sacrifice their lives for their country have to rely on food stamps to make ends meet, and it is an abrogation of our responsibility as Senators to let this disgrace go on. Sadly, politics, not military necessity, remains the rule, not the exception. 
   I will not stand by and watch as our military is permitted to erode to the breaking point due to the President's lack of foresight and the Congress' lack of compassion. These military men and women on food stamps--our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines--are the very same Americans that the President and Congress have sent into harm's way in recent years in Somalia, Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo, and East Timor. They deserve our continuing respect, our unwavering support, and a living wage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to provide a couple of brief anecdotes which are sometimes disturbing. In a July 20, 1999, piece in the Washington Post entitled ``Feeling the Pinch of A Military Salary; For Some Families Pay Doesn't Cover The Basics,'' it starts out by describing:  
   On a muggy Saturday at Quantico Marine Corps Base, about two dozen Marines and family members quietly poked through piles of discarded furniture, clothing, and household goods in what has become a weekly ritual at the big Northern Virginia installation. At 8 a.m., the patch of lawn was covered with beds, tables, dressers, and desks. Within 45 minutes, almost all the furniture was gone. The price was right--Everything was free. 
   The items had been gathered by volunteers who go ``trashin'' every Tuesday, scouring garbage left at curbs on the base. Every Saturday, they give away what they collect to needy, eager Marine families. 
   ``We're talking about the basics of life here, and they don't have it,'' said Lisa Joles, a Marine wife who created the Volunteer Network 2 years ago. ``Sometimes, they don't have a thing. I didn't know how large the problem was until I got to Quantico.'' 
   One result is that members of the military routinely work second jobs, often without permission from superiors, military officials acknowledged. Enlisted men and women sell goods at Potomac Mills, flip hamburgers at fast food restaurants, do construction work, and deliver packages for UPS. ``It seems like everybody who has been here a while has a part-time job,'' said Marine Lance Corporal Robert Hayes, who has a second job as a mover. ``You really don't have enough money to make it to the next paycheck otherwise.'' 
   Several evenings each week, as soon as he finishes duty at Quantico, Lance Corporal Harry Schein darts off base, picks up his 14-month-old son from day care and drops him off with the boy's mother. Then he drives up I-95 to Arlington and joins a group of Marines who moonlight moving office furniture until about 11 p.m. On Saturdays and Sundays, he works from 4 p.m. until midnight as a security guard in Alexandria.  
   The stories go on and on. About a year ago, there was a piece on 20/20 shown out at Camp Pendleton. Enlisted men and women and their families were lining up for cartons of food. We have a lot of retention problems in the military and we have a lot of recruiting problems. These, I know, are going to be well ventilated by the Armed Services Committee as time goes on. In my earlier years, it would have been hard for me to comprehend these kinds of conditions prevailing among the men and women in the military, particularly in the All Volunteer Force. 
   Mr. President, I ask for a recorded vote on this amendment, and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the managers, Senator DOMENICI and Senator REID. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield the remainder of my time after Senator DOMENICI speaks, or after anyone else who wants to speak on this amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-20000406</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If the Senator will yield, yes, he is doing exactly what I had in mind. I appreciate very much his long-term commitment on this issue. It is long overdue. We should fix it. I share his dissatisfaction with the Department of Defense in its responsibility towards these young men and women. 
   I thank the Senator from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000404</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to announce that the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation will meet for an executive session on Thursday, April 13, 2000, at 9:30 a.m., in room 253 of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000404</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased the Senate will pass H.R. 1167, the Tribal Self-Governance Amendments of 1999. This legislation is the culmination of years of work by the Indian Affairs Committee, Indian tribes and the Indian Health Service, IHS, to make permanent the successful tribal self-governance demonstration program. 
   Since its inception, tribes have enthusiastically embraced the self-governance program because it allows them to assume greater control over health care programs and services which are now provided by the IHS. Tribal self-governance has succeeded because it respects the special trust relationship between Indian tribes and the United States. It puts into practice the principles of government-to-government relations and tribal sovereignty. It allows increased tribal flexibility and transfers control from federal bureaucrats to tribal governments who are closer to the people they serve. 
   I thank my colleague Senator CAMPBELL for his leadership in fostering an agreement on final legislative language for this bill and for adding legislative provisions which will designate an Assistant Secretary for Indian Health within the Department of Health and Human Services. The proposal to designate a new Assistant Secretary position primarily for Indian health policy is one that enjoys unanimous support by the tribal community, bipartisan support by Congress, and is also endorsed by the Administration. 
   The tribal self-governance bill is critically important to Indian country because it will finally put into place permanent authority for Indian tribes to directly manage their own health care programs. With the passage of the IHS elevation bill as part of this legislation, we can make progress for improved health conditions for Indian people nationwide. 
   Many of my colleagues may not realize that the year 2000 marks the 30th anniversary of the inception of the Indian self-determination policy, ending the era of failed Federal policies of termination and paternalism. A few days ago, I joined my colleagues, Senators CAMPBELL and JOHNSON, in sponsoring S. Res. 277 commemorating this important policy. In continuation of building upon the fundamental tenets of tribal self-determination, I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move quickly to send this bill to the President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000329</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of Senate Joint Resolution 14. It is with great honor and reverence that I speak in support of this resolution, a bipartisan constitutional amendment to permit Congress to enact legislation prohibiting the physical desecration of the American flag. 
   Let me explain my support by recalling the sacrifice for flag and country of a prisoner of war I had the honor of serving with. 
   I spent 5 1/2 years at the Hanoi Hilton. In the early years of our imprisonment, the North Vietnamese kept us in solitary confinement of two or three to a cell. In 1971, the North Vietnamese moved us from these conditions of isolation into large rooms with as many as 30 to 40 men to a room. This was, as you can imagine, a wonderful change. And it was a direct result of the efforts of millions of Americans, led by people like Ross Perot, and Nancy and Ronald Reagan, on behalf of a few hundred POW's, 10,000 miles from home. 
   One of the men who moved into my cell was Mike Christian. Mike came from Selma, Alabama. He didn't wear a pair of shoes until he was 13 years old. At 17, he enlisted in the U.S. Navy. He later earned a commission. He became a Naval aviator, and was shot down and captured in 1967. Mike had a keen and deep appreciation for the opportunities this country--and our military--provide for people who want to work and want to succeed.  
   The uniforms we wore in prison consisted of a blue short-sleeved shirt trousers that looked like pajamas and rubber sandals that were made out of automobile tires. 
   As part of the change in treatment, the Vietnamese allowed some prisoners to receive packages from home. In some of these packages were handkerchiefs, scarves and other items of clothing. Mike got himself a piece of white cloth and a piece of red cloth and fashioned himself a bamboo needle. Over a period of a couple of months, he sewed the American flag on the inside of his shirt. 
   Every afternoon, before we had a bowl of soup, we would hang Mike's shirt on the wall of our cell, and say the Pledge of Allegiance. I know that saying the Pledge of Allegiance may not seem the most important or meaningful part of our day now. But I can assure you that--for those men in that stark prison cell--it was indeed the most important and meaningful event of our day. 
   One day, the Vietnamese searched our cell and discovered Mike's shirt with the flag sewn inside, and removed it. That evening they returned, opened the door of the cell, called for Mike Christian to come out, closed the door of the cell, and for the benefit of all of us, beat Mike Christian severely. 
   Then they opened the door of the cell and threw him back inside. He was not in good shape. We 
   tried to comfort and take care of him as well as we could. The cell in which we lived had a concrete slab in the middle on which we slept. Four naked light bulbs hung in each corner of the room. 
   After things quieted down, I went to lie down to go to sleep. As I did, I happened to look in the corner of the room. Sitting there beneath that dim light bulb, with a piece of white cloth, a piece of red cloth, another shirt and his bamboo needle, was my friend Mike Christian, sitting there, with his eyes almost shut from his beating, making another American flag. He was not making that flag because it made Mike Christian feel better. He was making that flag because he knew how important it was for us to be able to pledge our allegiance to our flag and our country. 
   I believe we have an inviolable duty to protect the right of free speech--one of our most precious inalienable rights and the linchpin of a healthy democracy. I do not believe, however, that guaranteeing respect for our national symbol by prohibiting ``acts'' of desecration impinges on political ``speech.'' 
   As long as citizens are free to speak out on any matter and from whatever point of view they wish, as our forefathers intended, it does not seem burdensome to me that we accord some modicum of respect to the symbol of those precious freedoms for which so many of our countrymen have laid down their lives. 
   Some view these efforts to protect the flag as political demagoguery or empty symbolism. I see the issue differently. The flag represents each and every one of us, regardless of race, religion or political diversity. Tolerating desecration of the flag is silent acquiescence to the degeneration of the broader values which sustain us as a free and democratic nation--the ramifications of which are far more profound than mere symbolism. 
   For these reasons, I support this constitutional amendment to ban flag desecration. I voted for such language in previous Congresses, but unfortunately, we have always fallen short of the 67 affirmative votes necessary for approval. 
   Whenever we send our young men and women into harm's way, we must remember that these same men and women have taken a solemn oath which this flag symbolizes. Let us honor their commitment and honor our great nation. I urge my colleagues to support the flag protection amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000329</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill to remove thousands of our servicemembers from the food stamp rolls. 
   The Remove Servicemembers from Food Stamps Act of 2000 provides junior enlisted servicemembers who are eligible for food stamps in the pay grade E-1 through E-5 an additional allowance of $180 a month. A not-yet-published Department of Defense report estimates that 6,300 servicemembers receive food stamps, while the General Accounting Office and Congressional Research Service place this number at around 13,500. Regardless of this disparity, the fact that just one servicemember is on food stamps is a national disgrace. This bill will end the ``food stamp Army'' once and for all. 
   This legislative proposal is estimated to cost only $6 million annually. Interestingly, the Congressional Budget Office determined that it would represent an overall savings to taxpayers since it would save the Department of Agriculture more than $6 million by removing servicemembers from the food stamp rolls for good. 
   Last year, this legislation was included in S. 4, the Soldiers', Sailors', Airmen's, and Marines' Relief Act of 1999. Although the Senate approved this legislation as part of S. 4, I was greatly disappointed when food stamp relief was rejected by conferees from the House of Representatives despite the strong support of Admiral Jay Johnson, the Chief of Naval Operations, and General Jim Jones, the Commandant of the Marine Corps. With over 13,500 military families on food stamps, and possibly thousands more eligible for the program, I cannot understand the Congress' refusal to rectify this problem in last year's National Defense Authorization Act. 
   It is outrageous that Admirals and Generals received a 17 percent pay  raise last year while our enlisted families continue to line up for free food and furniture. Last year, we poured hundreds of millions of dollars into programs the military did not request, like the C-130J. We spent $375 million as a down payment on a $1.5 billion amphibious assault ship that the Navy did not want and that the Secretary of Defense said diverts dollars from higher priority programs. We added $5.1 million to build a gymnasium at the Naval Post-Graduate School and $15 million to build a Reserve Center in Oregon--neither was in the President's budget request or identified by the Joint Chiefs as a priority item. 
   It is difficult to reconcile how Congress could waste $7.4 billion on pork barrel spending in the defense budget, while we ignore the basic needs of our military families. I have been open to all suggestions for solutions to this problem and am willing to work toward a bipartisan plan that would satisfy the administration, Congress, and the Department of Defense. Sadly, politics, not military necessity, remains the rule, not the exception. 
   It is unconscionable that the men and women who are willing to sacrifice their lives for their country have to rely on food stamps to make ends meet, and it is an abrogation of our responsibilities as Senators to let this reality go on without some sort of legislative remedy. 
   I will not stand by and watch as our military is permitted to erode to the breaking point due to the President's lack of foresight and the Congress' lack of compassion. These military men and women on food stamps--our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines--are the very same Americans that the President and Congress have sent into harm's way in recent years in Somalia, Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo, and East Timor. They deserve our continuing respect, our unwavering support, and a living wage. 
   The legislation is supported by every enlisted association or organization that specifically supports enlisted servicemember issues in the Military Coalition and in the National Military/Veterans Alliance. Associations include the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Non-Commissioned Officers Association, the American Legion, the Retired Enlisted Association, the National Association for Uniformed Services, the Fleet Reserve Association, the Air Force Sergeants Association, the U.S. Coast Guard Chief Petty Officers Association, the Disabled American Veterans, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the U.S., and the Naval Enlisted Reserve Association. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill and to act swiftly. It is a step in the right direction toward improving the lives of our servicemembers and their families who are struggling to feed their families. There is no reason not to pass this bill immediately. We have waited too long already. We must end the days of a ``food stamp Army'' once and for all. Our military personnel and their families deserve better. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I commend the managers of this bill and all those who worked hard to forge this agreement to help address the continuing crisis facing American farmers. However, I regret that I cannot vote for this legislation, S. 2251, the Risk Management for the 21st Century Act. 
   Over the last 2 years, the Congress was forced to spend more than $15 billion of taxpayer dollars in emergency disaster assistance to farmers. Proponents of this bill claim that if S. 2251 is enacted, the need to pass ad hoc emergency farm relief would be avoided. However, even with passage of this bill, these same proponents are not willing to voice their opposition to further emergency spending should Congress be forced to consider additional relief measures for farmers. 
   This bill, at a cost of $6 billion, is more of an expanded federal subsidy for crop coverage, rather than thorough and necessary reform of the larger problems stemming from our nation's farm policies. It has become clear that the 1996 Freedom to Farm bill failed to alleviate the heavy reliance by the farming community on federally subsidized programs and financial assistance. However, instead of turning back the clock and increasing subsidies, we should be working for responsible reform of farm policies. That is why I voted in favor of Senator WELLSTONE's amendment which calls for broader reform. 
   Even with the expanded coverage and more affordable insurance premiums for farmers called for in this bill, Congress does not have the assurance that other problems, such as fluctuations in the market or limited trade opportunities, will not create additional burdens on farmers requiring another costly congressional budgetary response. 
   Mr. President, this bill also includes provisions that appear capricious and unnecessarily bureaucratic. Five new regional centers will be established at a price tag of $30 million, and new pilot programs are authorized to develop and market risk management tools. I support efforts to evaluate innovative risk management options or to ensure that farmers understand changes to insurance coverage and options. But why should we spend taxpayer money on new information centers when this information is already available and accessible through local USDA offices? And, the private sector is in no way prohibited from exploring opportunities to develop and market new products to manage risk. 
   Mr. President, I agree with the fundamental principle of this bill, that farmers need to have risk management tools to allow them to prepare for, and deal with, crop losses and disaster-related problems. However, I am not convinced that this bill will do much more than increase taxpayer burdens and only partially solve a much bigger problem facing our nation's farmers. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that my remarks be placed in the RECORD immediately following passage of S. 2251. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from California for her kind remarks. I appreciate, obviously, the time that I was able to spend in her great State. I hope she appreciates the economic input that our campaign made, and I hope I can get some rebate from the numerous campaign commercials we purchased in her State. I thank her for the hospitality shown to me by all of the citizens of the State of California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this Friday marks the first anniversary of NATO's air campaign to drive Serbian forces out of Kosovo. I want to speak briefly this morning about the current situation that, regrettably, remains, in the words of the respected newsmagazine, The Economist, ``a mess.'' 
   Reports over the weekend that General Reinhardt, the KFOR commander, believes that peacekeeping troops will likely need to remain in Kosovo for ten years or more have, I am sure, given my colleagues more than just cause to worry over the wisdom of our continued involvement there. That is more than understandable, given the divisions among NATO peacekeepers, and our allies' frustrating reluctance to meet their commitments to the international police force in Kosovo; considering the U.N.'s predictable difficulty in rebuilding something approaching normal civilian live where ethnic hatreds are as deep-seated as ever; and considering that the malevolent Mr. Milosevic continues to make trouble whenever and wherever he can. 
   Surely, the United States needs to be much more forceful with some of our allies who assume that the United States will always compensate for the deficiencies of their resolve and accept a greatly disproportionate share of the burden of stabilizing the Balkans. Most importantly, we must insist, and I emphasize that verb, that we have the full support of our peacekeeping partners in opposing Serbian efforts to foment further violence in Mitrovica and elsewhere. One of our allies sometimes appears to act, in defiance of the facts on the ground and the dictates of conscience, as a protector of Serb aggressors. Our other allies in KFOR should help us persuade our badly mistaken friend that such an attitude is a terrible impediment to KFOR's success. 
   This does not mean that the United States must end or threaten to end in the near term our participation in KFOR. Despite the unacceptable circumstances of the weak and endangered peace in Kosovo, it is infinitely preferable to the widespread atrocities committed during the course of Serbian aggression, atrocities that would surely reoccur were NATO to fail in our current mission. But our partners in peace can be persuaded by strong American leadership that the American people will not tolerate indefinitely Europe's inadequate commitment to peace and stability in their own backyard. 
   Mr. President, I do not mean to overlook or minimize in my discussion the  challenges to peace created by ethnic Albanian extremists. We must be resolute in opposition to any threats wherever they occur. But it is a grave mistake to forget that nearly all the violence and instability afflicting the Balkans over the last decade originated in the unspeakable inhumanity of Belgrade's aggressors. 
   The problems in the Balkans are, for the most part, attributable to the Serbian regime, led by an indicted war criminal who continues to hold onto power despite overwhelming public sentiment against him. At any time, he can be expected to foment conflict in Kosovo, Montenegro, or in Bosnia. 
   That the domestic opposition to him has been divided and anemic does not detract from the legitimacy of those who seek his removal from power. In every respect, his is the rogue regime that constitutes the greatest threat to regional peace, just as Saddam Hussein does in the Persian Gulf and Kim Jong Il does in the Korean Peninsula. 
   The Senate's passage last November by unanimous consent of the Serbian Democratization Act was an illustration of the extent of Congress' commitment to democratic change in Serbia as the necessary condition to lasting stability in the region. We should never forget that, for all the long and sad history of conflict in the Balkans, it was only when dictatorial regimes sought to exploit ethnic divisions did conflict overwhelm peace. The recent election of a liberal government in Croatia has greatly benefited the situation in Bosnia. Only through similar change in Serbia will a lasting peace begin in Yugoslavia. United States policy in the Balkans, and in Yugoslavia in particular, must be focused on affecting the democratic transformation of Serbia that the Serbian people themselves desire. 
   Final passage of the Serbian Democratization Act will be an important step in the right direction. In the meantime, there must be no lifting of the sanctions on Serbia, and no repetition in Montenegro of what occurred in Kosovo--vague and unbelieved threats to prevent the kind of ethnic cleansing we are now spending billions of dollars to reverse. 
   In the days ahead, Mr. President, I hope to work again with my colleagues and with the administration to help focus United States policy on achieving the goals in the Balkans that are important to protecting both America's interests and values in Europe. 
   Finally, on a personal note, if I may, Mr. President, as has probably been noted occasionally, I have been absent from the Senate for some time. I will not burden my colleagues with a full discussion of how I spent my time away and what I learned from the experience. Nor do I think the floor of the U.S. Senate is the proper place to discuss in detail my personal feelings or political plans. However, Mr. President, I would like to say a few words about the great privilege we all share, the privilege of serving the greatest nation in history. 
   I have enjoyed that privilege since I was 17 years old, and I consider myself fortunate beyond measure to have done so. This country and her causes are a blessing to mankind, and they honor all of us who work to make America an even better place, and America's example a greater influence on human history. I felt that way before I ran for President, and I feel that way today. And although I have lost my bid to be President, I will never lose my appreciation for the honor of serving America in any capacity, and for the good will and confidence of the people of Arizona who allow me to serve in the U.S. Senate, a body that has seen the honorable service of so many more distinguished Americans than the flawed man who addresses you now. 
   I have nothing but gratitude to the American people for the privilege of serving them and for their consideration of my candidacy for President. I have incurred a debt to them that I doubt I can ever fully repay. But I intend to do what I can, working with my congressional colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, to help bring about the changes to the practices and institutions of our democracy that they want and deserve. 
   These reforms, Mr. President, are not ends in themselves. They are means to a much more important end. They are intended to sustain America's pride in the way we govern ourselves, and in the end to remind us all, those of us lucky enough to serve and those who elect us, what a special thing it is to be an American. I was reminded of that every single day of this campaign by Americans, those who supported me and those who did not, who wanted little for themselves individually, but simply for our country to remain, what she's always been, ``the last, best hope of earth.'' I will never forget it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator ROTH for his leadership and stewardship of this important legislation. 
   Obviously, I urge my colleagues to support swift passage of this much needed legislation to eliminate the unfair and discriminatory Social Security earnings test. 
   For over a decade, I and a few staunch supporters have been fighting to eliminate the earnings test that penalizes senior citizens who want or need to work. We began our battle in 1989 and have offered legislation in each of the last six Congresses to repeal the earnings test. In the beginning, we had only a few allies, notable amongst which was the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, which has been at the forefront of this effort, as have my dear friends JOHN KYL and MIKE DEWINE. 
   I am pleased now that so many Members from both sides of the aisle, as well as President Clinton, understand that senior citizens have a right to work without being penalized for doing so. With this recent groundswell of support, we can finally eliminate this penalty on our Nation's hard-working senior citizens. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, most Americans are shocked and appalled when they discover that older Americans are penalized for working. Americans should never be penalized or discouraged from working. Yet that is exactly what the Social Security earnings test does. The earnings test punishes Americans between the ages of 65 and 70 who want to remain productive after they reach retirement age and are eligible to receive Social Security benefits. 
   The Earnings Test mandates that, for every $3 earned by a retiree over the earnings limit, the retiree loses $1 in Social Security benefits. This is clearly age discrimination, and it is very wrong. Due to this cap on earnings, our senior citizens, many of whom exist on fixed, low incomes, are burdened with a 33.3 percent tax on their earned income. When this is combined with Federal, State, local and other Social Security taxes, it amounts to an outrageous 55 to 65 percent tax bite. 
   In 1996, Congress passed and President Clinton signed into law the Senior Citizens Right to Work Act. This legislation took a step in the right direction by gradually increasing the $11,250 earnings limit to $30,000 by the year 2002. This year, the earnings limit is $17,000. But an individual who is struggling to make ends meet with just their Social Security benefits plus $17,000 a year in earned income should not be faced with an effective marginal tax rate that exceeds 55 percent. 
   The Social Security Earnings Test is a relic of the Great Depression, designed to move older people out of the workforce and create jobs for younger workers. Today's booming economy, with the lowest unemployment rate in three decades, can support full employment for both young and old. In addition, experts are predicting a labor shortage as the ``baby boom'' generation ages, with our elderly population growing much faster than the number of younger workers entering the workforce. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, ``retaining older workers is a priority in labor intensive industries, and will become even more critical by the year 2000.'' The Social Security Earnings Test is counter-productive because it discourages these willing, diligent older Americans from staying in the workforce. 
   Our senior citizens can continue to make valuable contributions to our economy. Often, their knowledge and experience compliments or exceeds that of younger employees. Tens of millions of Americans are over the age of 65, and together they have over a billion years of cumulative work experience. 
   More importantly, many of the older Americans penalized by the Earnings Test need to work in order to cover their basic expenses, including food, housing, and medicine. Many seniors do not have significant savings or a private pension. For this reason, low-income workers are particularly hard-hit by the Earnings Test. 
   In fact, wealthy seniors, who have lucrative investments, stocks, and substantial savings, are not affected by the earnings limit. Their supplemental ``unearned'' income is not subject to the earnings threshold. 
   Finally, let me stress that repealing the burdensome and unfair Earnings  Test will not further jeopardize the solvency of the Social Security Trust Funds. Those who claim otherwise are engaging in cruel scare tactics. The Social Security benefits working seniors lose due to the Earnings Test penalty are benefits they earned by contributing to the system throughout their working years. In fact, studies indicate that repealing the Earnings Test would actually result in a net increase of $140 million in federal revenues because more seniors would be earning wages and paying taxes, including payroll taxes that would go into the Social Security Trust Fund. 
   Repealing the Earnings Test is very important to the financial security of many of our nation's seniors. But let me take this opportunity to remind my colleagues of the very precarious financial condition of the entire Social Security system and the urgent need for a serious, bipartisan effort to reform and revitalize this cornerstone of many Americans' retirement planning. 
   My colleagues must recognize that repealing this onerous tax on our nation's senior citizens is an important step toward a fairer, flatter, simpler tax code. The 44,000-page Code is a cornucopia of favors for special interests and a chamber of horrors for average Americans. It penalizes people for getting married and for wanting to pass along the fruits of their labors to their children. It is overly complex and burdensome. 
   We should act now to eliminate the loopholes and subsidies for corporations and special interests. We should act now to eliminate the onerous marriage penalty, reduce estate and gift taxes, and encourage families to save and invest for their future priorities, such as college and health care needs. We should begin the march toward a fairer, flatter tax system by expanding the 15 percent tax bracket to allow more Americans to pay taxes at the lowest rate. Combined with the repeal of the Social Security Earnings Test, these and other changes to the tax code would provide much-needed tax relief to those who need it most--our nation's low- and middle-income senior citizens and families. 
   The only way to achieve real reform of the Social Security system is to work together in a bipartisan manner. 
   I am speaking specifically of the leadership of the Senator from New York, Mr. MOYNIHAN. I can think of no greater gift to the American people than to act on this issue before Senator MOYNIHAN leaves this body. It's time to abandon the irresponsible game of playing partisan politics with Social Security. Democrats will have to stop using the issue to scare seniors into voting against Republicans. Republicans will have to resist using Social Security revenues to finance tax cuts. And both parties must stop raiding the Trust Funds to waste retirement dollars on more government spending. We must face up to our responsibilities, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as elected representatives of the American people with a common obligation to protect their interests. 
   We have an obligation to ensure that Social Security benefits are paid as promised, without putting an unfair burden on today's workers. Experts agree that the only way to save Social Security without cutting benefits or raising payroll taxes is to allow every American to invest a portion of their Social Security savings in private, higher-yielding accounts. I believe a good start would be to let each person invest about 20 percent of what they pay in payroll taxes in a personal retirement account. These personal accounts would be controlled by the individual, and the individual would be able to monitor the growth of their investment. An added benefit is that each account would be a ``personal lockbox'' that could no longer be used by Congress for pork-barrel projects. 
   In the near term, there is a cost to moving funds out of the Trust Funds into these private accounts, and we must set aside the funds necessary to pay promised benefits while the personal accounts of workers are maturing. Simply locking up the Social Security surplus that comes from payroll taxes--a considerable accomplishment in and of itself--is not enough to save Social Security. We will need between $5 and $7 trillion in additional funding over the next 50 years to keep the current system running. I believe we must start now by reserving 62 percent of the non-Social Security budget surplus to shore up the Trust Funds while we begin to implement a plan for personal retirement accounts. 
   By passing this important legislation to repeal the Social Security Earnings Test, we have the opportunity to restore to our nation's seniors the right to work without penalty to ensure their financial security. But this is just the first step. We must work together to develop fair and effective reforms that will preserve and protect the Social Security system for current and future retirees, while allowing all Americans, particularly low- and middle-income individuals, the opportunity to share in the great prosperity that our nation enjoys today. 
   I thank the Senator from Delaware for his leadership. I especially thank the Senator from New York for his courageous leadership in suggesting a viable and important way to save Social Security, along with the Senator from Nebraska, Mr. KERREY. I tell the Senator from New York that I talked about it during this entire campaign. It resonates, people want it, and we ought to enact it. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like, if the Senator from New York will allow me, 1 more minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I say to the Senator from New York that all over in this campaign I talked about the leadership of Senator MOYNIHAN of New York, Senator KERREY of Nebraska, and their proposals, which met with some derision in some quarters. But the fact is, when you consult the experts, they will tell you this is really the only way we can allow people to invest their retirement funds in a personal savings account over which they then will have control. But we need to get money into the fund in order to allow them to do that. 
   I think the Senator from New York has made an enormous contribution. I hope we can join together in a bipartisan fashion and enact that proposal. It may not be a perfect proposal; there may be some changes that need to be made on it; but the heart of it is the solution to the Social Security crisis, which we all know is coming beginning in the year 2014. 
   I thank my colleague from New York. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce legislation today to extend the moratorium on Internet taxes through 2006. This will ensure that Internet commerce remains free from burdensome, anticonsumer taxation while we discuss a fair and equitable tax structure for our new economy. This bill simply extends the law passed by Congress and signed by the President in October 1998. 
   The 1998 legislation imposed a moratorium and provided for a commission to report to Congress. While the Commission has not yet reported its recommendations, it is clear from published reports of their deliberations and from interviews with their members that a clear consensus is not imminent. More discussions and more time is necessary to arrive at a fair conclusion. Although I feel strongly that in the end a permanent moratorium is the best policy, which is why I introduced legislation to impose a permanent ban on Internet taxes, I also have become convinced that we need more time to determine how state and local governments will be affected. We need to consider whether the macroeconomic benefits of the new economy will outweigh the potential losses in direct revenues, how to ensure a level playing field for all venues of commerce, and how to simplify the overwhelming morass of tax rules, regulations and paperwork so that opportunities for new or small businesses are not lost in complex and archaic bureaucracy. 
   The compromises being discussed by the Commission are a good start to the debate, but more time is necessary to pursue these and other possible options. It is becoming increasingly clear that the answer to taxation of the internet must affect taxation of other commerce media, such as catalog sales, as well. We need to reexamine the level of services which the public wants to be provided by government and determine how to provide necessary revenue to accomplish the people's will. We need to ensure that taxation is not simply imposed to increase government bureaucracy. 
   Recent studies indicate that state and local governments will not suffer during this interim period. A June 1999 report by the well-known and respected auditing and business consulting firm or Ernst & Young concludes that total sales and use taxes not collected by state and local governments from Internet e-commerce transactions in 1998 amounted to only ``one-tenth of one percent of total state and local sales and use tax collections.'' Another May 1999 analysis of Internet commerce transactions through 2003 by Austan Goolsvee and Jonathan Zittrain, published in the National Tax Journal, predicts ``even with a 70 percent rate of growth in retail e-commerce transactions, a revenue loss of less than 2 percent of sales tax revenue.'' 
   There are multiple reasons for this very marginal impact on state and local revenues. First, most of the e-commerce transactions are wither business-to-business transactions, or for services, such as financial services and travel, which are exempt from sales and use taxes in most states. Ernst & Young estimated only 13 percent of the total e-commerce sales transactions were of a type which would be subject to sales and use taxes if conducted in person. 
   Second, as pointed out by Austan Goolsbee and Jonathan Zittrain, the Internet is a ``trade creator''--that is, many transactions which occur through e-commerce would not take place at all without the internet. 
   Third, the Internet does not divert sales only from brick and mortar retailers, but also from mail order catalogs. Those sales are also subject to sales and use tax only where a nexus, a physical presence, in the taxing state. 
   We are currently seeing a continued rise in state and local revenues. Many states are currently debating how to refund money to their citizens, whether to cut sales taxes or income taxes. Thus, this moratorium should not negatively impact their ability to provide services during the interim. 
   It is important to look at the full picture here. The Internet is filled with web sites of small businesses which are expanding in ways which would never have before been economically feasible. For example, a small store in a small town which has historically had a limited market for its good now has a website that allows it to market and sell to people all over the country--all over the world. It increases its business and needs to hire more employees, and pays taxes on its increased revenues. The states and local governments benefits, not only from the additional taxes paid on the revenues, but in the economic benefits of additional jobs. 
   The potential burden of complying with tax regulations and the paperwork involved under current law for as many as 7,500 estimated taxing units in this country would ovrwhelm many businesses, especially small businesses. An example in the March 13, 2000 edition of Interactive Week is instructive. ``If you're a raw peanut, five states would require that sales taxes are paid  on your purchase. If you're roasted, 11 states charge a sales tax. Add some honey to that roasting, and now 21 states say you're taxable. Get drenched in caramel and mixed with caramel-coated popcorn and suddenly you're a snack, and 31 states will call the tax man.'' 
   While I hope that the debate will conclude with a decision to leave the Internet as a ``tax-free-zone,'' I believe that it is important to continue the discussion and to move all stakeholders toward a consensus. This temporary extension of the moratorium already approved by Congress and the President will allow us to do that. This is a good compromise which will serve as a catalyst for consideration of the broader tax policy issues which need to enter into this discussion to ensure a fair and equitable tax system in this country. 
   I intend to move this bill through committee expeditiously and look forward to debating it on the Senate floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000307</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to submit along with Senators HAGEL, DEWINE, and THOMPSON a resolution to designate the month of May as National Military Appreciation Month. As my colleagues may recall, I had sponsored a resolution earlier in the year, cosponsored by 61 senators, designating May 1999 as National Military Appreciation Month. That resolution, S. Res. 33, passed by a vote of 93-0 on March 30. 
   Subsequent to passage of S. Res. 33, I introduced S. 1419, which would have made that designation permanent by amending Title 36 of the U.S. Code. To date, S. 1419 has 66 cosponsors. Because of the failure of S. 1419 to pass, I have agreed to submit a revised resolution designating May National Military Appreciation Month for the next five years, and requesting the President issue a proclamation calling for the American people and interested groups to observe such months with appropriate ceremonies and activities. It is my hope that this new resolution will receive the Senate's favorable consideration. 
   The introduction of an All-Volunteer Army was an outgrowth of the disenchantment many Americans felt in the wake of the Vietnam War. The end of conscription and the transition to the All-Volunteer concept has been criticized by some for not adequately reflecting socioeconomic divisions without our country. In point of fact, however, with the requisite attention and care, it produced the finest armed forces in history. How far we had come since the tumultuous times of the 1970s when military readiness descended to abysmal levels was evident for all the world to see in the overwhelming victory over Iraqi forces during Operation Desert Storm. But that success has been taken for granted too long. Over 15 years of declining military budgets, combined with record high levels of deployments, have stretched the military to precarious levels. 
   The end of conscription had another, more far-reaching and subtle implication: it diminished the percentage of the public, including its elected officials, with military experience. This is not a criticism of those who did not serve; on the contrary, as a strong supporter of the All-Volunteer Army, I remain committed to its survival and success. This gradual diminishment in the shared experience of having served in uniform, however, makes it increasingly important that the public reflect every year on the enormous role their armed forces have on preserving freedom. 
   As thousands of American soldiers serve increasingly hazardous duty in Kosovo, while others continue to serve in Bosnia as well as on the demilitarized zone in Korea and around the world, it is imperative that our men and women in uniform 
   know of the strong continuing support of their country for their dedication and service to this country. Whether we individually agree with each and every deployment or not, we have learned to separate our support for the armed forces from our differences over the policies that sent them into harm's way. Dedicating one month every year to express our appreciation for the armed forces, the same month in which we recognize Victory in Europe Day, Military Spouse Day, Armed Forces Day, and, most importantly, Memorial Day, is an appropriate measure that I hope will have the support of all my colleagues in Congress. 
   Mr. President, I generally take a somewhat dim view of celebratory resolutions. But those who fought on the battlefields of Lexington, Gettysburg, Normandy, in the Ardennes and on Okinawa, in Hue and at Khe Sanh, in the deserts of the Persian Gulf and the dusty streets of Mogadishu, in the skies over Kosovo and who stand a lonely vigil on the DMZ, must not be forgotten. Too much blood has been spilled in defense of liberty. We owe to those who perished and those who survived, to devote one month out of the  year to reflect on the sacrifices of those who have worn their nation's uniform throughout its history. 
   Mr. President, I request that the attached correspondence in support of S. 1419 from the Military Coalition be made a part of the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000301</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize and say farewell to an outstanding Naval Officer and fellow Arizona citizen, Lieutenant Michael Sullivan, who has served with distinction for the past eighteen months in the Navy's Office of Legislative Affairs. It is a privilege for me to  recognize his many outstanding achievements and to commend him for the superb service he has provided to the U.S. Senate and to our great Nation as a whole. 
   Lieutenant Sullivan is a graduate of my alma mater, the United States Naval Academy. I had the great honor of addressing his class at his graduation in May 1993. Similar to myself, academic honors had eluded him but the standards at the Naval Academy are such that simply surviving the four years reflects great credit upon his ability and dedication. When it was his turn to walk across the stage, he shook my hand and exclaimed, ``Go Navy and Go Arizona!'' I shared in his enthusiasm and we embraced in a bear hug as I handed him his diploma. 
   Lieutenant Sullivan proceeded to Surface Warfare Officer School in Newport, Rhode Island, before reporting to the U.S.S. Fife (DD-991) which was forward deployed to the U.S. Seventh Fleet in Yokosuka, Japan. On Fife be served as the Auxiliaries Officer and Fire Control/Strike Missile Systems Officer. Following that arduous tour, he reported to the U.S.S. Antietam (CG-54) as the Combat Information Systems Officer. Among his notable accomplishments, he distinguished himself in 1997 by being named a Commander, Naval Surface Force, U.S. Pacific Fleet Junior Officer Shiphandler of the Year. In July 1998, Lieutenant Sullivan joined the Navy's Senate Liaison team and helped the Senate ensure that our Navy remained the best trained, best equipped, and best prepared Naval force in the world. 
   Mr. President, Lieutenant Sullivan represents the very best of America's most precious resource--her youth. With being a commissioned officer come responsibilities so immense and so important that the lives of all Americans and the welfare of much of the world will be directly affected by how well they discharge them. I have every confidence that Lieutenant Sullivan will continue to acquit himself with distinction. As he now departs for the next of many more tours at sea, I call upon my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to wish him fair winds and following seas.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000229</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the Affordable Education Act is an important step toward returning to parents and communities the resources and responsibility to provide for their children's education, and expanding educational opportunities for millions of Americans of all ages. 
   As an original cosponsor of S. 14, the ``Education Savings Account and School Excellence Act'', portions of which are contained in this bill, I am strongly committed to strengthening and expanding education savings accounts for American families. Families should be encouraged and given incentives to save more of their money for their children's college education, but also to set aside money to meet the unique needs of the children throughout their school years. 
   The Affordable Education Act expands the existing tax-preferred Education Savings Accounts, which allow families to save for college expenses, to include elementary and secondary educational costs. The bill also allows corporations and other entities, in addition to individuals, to contribute to a child's ESA. 
   Under this bill, money saved in ESAs could be withdrawn tax-free to pay for a child's educational expenses from kindergarten through high school, not just college. Expanded ESA's could be used to hire a tutor for a child who is struggling with math, or foreign language lessons to help a child become bilingual or multilingual. ESA savings could be used to purchase a home computer or give a child with dyslexia access to a special education teacher. Expanded ESA's will help parents address their children's unique needs and concerns, and encourage their particular abilities. Expanded ESA's can help ensure each child is prepared to succeed in higher education or employment. 
   This bill also contains several important initiatives to provide greater access to higher education. It supports employer initiatives offering educational assistance to their employees by extending the tax exclusion for employer-paid undergraduate tuition and expanding the tax exclusion to also cover graduate-level courses. The bill helps make college more affordable by allowing private institutions to establish qualified pre-paid college tuition plans and allows certain tax-free withdrawals from qualified State tuition plans. 
   Unfortunately, expansion of ESA's and the other provisions noted above are only temporary in the bill before the Senate. Because these programs are important tools for families struggling to pay for the children's college and other educational expenses, I believe these initiatives should be made permanent. 
   Another important aspect of the bill is the new tax exclusion of certain amounts received from the National Health Corps and Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship programs. Those who receive these scholarships will go on to provide medical and dental services in our nation's under-served areas as well as in military service. 
   The bill also authorizes the tax-exempt financing rules for school construction. Local communities can determine how to best use their educational resources--whether hiring new teachers, providing additional classroom services, or constructing new schools. This bill gives communities a financial break if they choose to use some of their resources for new school construction, making it possible to accomplish more with limited resources. 
   Finally, I note with approval that the bill contains several provisions to close existing tax loopholes for special interests in order to balance the costs of these important education initiatives. I would encourage the Senate to consider adding several more of these inequitable tax loopholes to the bill in order to make permanent the expanded ESA's and other important education incentives in this bill. 
   Again, I reiterate my strong support for this bill, and I urge my colleagues to support it. More important, I urge the President to consider the importance of this legislation for expanding the educational opportunities of all Americans, and I urge him to sign this bill when it reaches his desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I wish to express the need to support responsible, significant, military health care reform. I commend the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee and Republican leadership for making enactment of military health care reform a top priority in the Senate. 
   Our nation's military health care delivery system cries out for strong, meaningful reform. The military health care delivery system is facing some very unique challenges. 
   One of the critical challenges is how best to reconfigure the military health  care delivery system so that it might continue to meet its military readiness and peace-time obligations at a time of continuous change for our base and force structure. In the process of deciding how to proceed, I met with and heard from many military family members, veterans and military retirees from around the country. I was inundated with suggestions for reform. In every meeting and every letter, I encountered retired service men and women who have problems with every aspect of the military medical care system--with long waiting periods, with access to the right kind of care, with access to needed pharmaceutical drugs, and with the broken promise of lifetime health care for military retirees and their spouses. I heard these concerns expressed as I have traveled across the United States over the past several months. 
   My distinguished colleagues, the Republican Leader, Senator LOTT, Armed Services Committee Chairman, Senator WARNER, and Ranking Member, Senator LEVIN, introduced a bill that also addresses the military health care system. The bill is S.2087, the ``Military Health Care Improvements Act of 2000.'' I applaud my colleagues in rising to this challenge, and I am pleased to see that portions of legislation I introduced last month were included in their bill. However, I can not cosponsor this legislation because it does not do enough to reform the military health care delivery system for our veterans, especially our oldest veterans, retirees, and survivors. 
   I have several concerns with the legislation introduced yesterday. 
   One of the areas of greatest concern among military retirees and their families is the ``broken promise'' of lifetime medical care, especially for those over-age 65. S. 2087 fails to meet what I think is the most important requirement, the restoration of the broken promise of free lifetime medical care promised to retirees and their families who entered the service prior to June 7, 1956. The major veteran service organizations share my view that the number one priority is to take care of these older military retirees and their spouses who were promised lifetime medical care benefits. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of S.2003 that restores the broken promise given to retirees who entered the service prior to June 7, 1956. I pledge to work with the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services to fully restore the broken promise to our over-65 military retirees and their families. 
   In addition, there are some significant differences between S. 2013, the ``Honoring Health Care Commitments to Service Members Past and Present Act of 2000'' that I introduced in January with Senators COVERDELL, ROBB, HAGEL, JEFFORDS and BINGAMAN, and the health care bill being introduced yesterday. 
   My legislation would help repair the ``broken promise'' given to Medicare-eligible military retirees and their families by restoring their access to military health care that was taken away when they turned 65. Additionally, S. 2013 offers health care options to retirees and would provide additional benefits to active duty servicemembers and their families. The hallmark of this legislation is that it offers several new choices to retirees and their families in their health care delivery services. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-20000127</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, last November, I spoke on the floor of the Senate about the severe deficiencies in our nation's military health care delivery system. We, as a nation, face a very critical challenge in determining how best to reconfigure the military health care delivery system so that it can continue to meet its military readiness and peace-time obligations during this period of ongoing change in our base and force structure. 
   This is a challenge that has concerned me for some time. As I have been working on this matter and deciding how best to proceed, I have met with, and heard from, many military family members, veterans, and military retirees from around the country. And, in that process, I have been inundated with suggestions for reform. During every meeting and in every letter, I have heard from retired service men and women about so many problems with all aspects of the military medical care system--including long waiting periods, access to the right kind of  care, access to needed pharmaceutical drugs, and especially the ``broken promise'' of free lifetime health care for military retirees and their spouses. I have also personally heard such concerns repeatedly expressed as I have traveled extensively throughout the United States over the past several months. 
   I have found that a primary concern among military retirees and their families is the ``broken promise'' of lifetime medical care. In this vein, retiree health care is a readiness issue. Today's service members are acutely aware of retirees' disenfranchisement from military health care coverage, and exit surveys cite this issue with increasing frequency as one of the factors in members' decisions to leave the service. In fact, a recent General Accounting Office study found that poor ``access to medical and dental care in retirement'' was among the top five elements of dissatisfaction among active duty officers in retention-critical specialties. 
   Failure to keep health care commitments is hurting service recruiting efforts, as well. Traditionally, retirees have been the services' most effective recruiters, and their children and those of family friends have been more likely to serve. Unfortunately, increasing numbers of retirees who have seen the government renege on its ``lifetime health care'' promises have become more reluctant to recommend service careers to their family members and friends. Restoring retirees' confidence in their health care coverage could go a long way in restoring this invaluable recruiting resource. 
   Certainly, the high cost of providing quality health care has contributed to Congress' failure to implement meaningful reform in the past. Yet, even though Congress has increased the President's defense budget requests in recent years to attempt to meet the military's future needs, it simultaneously has squandered billions each year on projects the military did not request and 
   does not need. Last year alone, Congress appropriated over $6 billion for wasteful, unrequested, and low-priority projects that would have no positive effect on preparing our military for future challenges, and would address this military health care quandary. 
   Congress also continues to refuse to close military bases that are not essential to our security, permitting politics to outweigh military readiness, at a cost to the taxpayer of nearly $7 billion each year. If Congress would allow the Pentagon to privatize or consolidate depot and base maintenance activities, savings of $2 billion each year could be achieved. In addition, Congress refuses to eliminate anti-competitive ``Buy American'' restrictions, which could save almost $5.5 billion annually on defense contracts. These common sense reforms together would free up nearly $20 billion per year, which could be used to begin correcting our readiness shortfalls and, significantly, provide a quality health care delivery system for our older military retirees, once and for all. 
   I must add that there are other wasteful funding efforts that are particularly disgraceful. While Congress wastes taxpayer money on obsolete infrastructure, unneeded weapon systems, and projects that have no meaningful value to our Armed Forces, it simultaneously refuses to adequately pay the nearly 12,000 enlisted military personnel who are forced to subsist on food stamps. We must work to improve our treatment of all the honored military personnel serving our nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, just like the rest of our health care delivery system, our nation's military health care delivery system cries out for reform. While both systems are plagued with rising costs and barriers to full access, the military health care delivery system is facing some very unique challenges. I intend to submit the ``Contract With Our Service Members--Past and Present'' first thing next session. A principal objective of this Contract will be military health care reform. 
   One of the critical challenges is how best to reconfigure the military health care delivery system so that it might continue to meet its military readiness and peace-time obligations at a time of continuous change for our base and force structure. 
   This is a challenge with which I have been grappling for some time. In the process of deciding how to proceed, I have been meeting with, and hearing from, many military family members, veterans and military retirees from around the country. I was inundated with suggestions for reform. In every meeting and every letter, I encountered retired service men and women who have problems with every aspect of the military medical care system--with long waiting periods, with access to the right kind of care, with access to needed pharmaceutical drugs, and with the broken promise of lifetime health care for military retirees and their spouses. I heard these concerns expressed as I have traveled across the United States over the past several months. 
   One of the areas of greatest concern among military retirees and their families is the ``broken promise'' of lifetime medical care, especially for those over age 65. 
   I believe grappling with these issues presents a great challenge and demands our very best effort. Not lost on me is the urgent need to address the over-age 65 issue since there are reportedly 1,000 World War II and Korean veterans dying every day. It is imperative that as changes are made to our nation's military force and continue to be made in the future with regards to base structure, that Congress not only stay fixated on bringing health care costs under control, but that steps be taken  to retain the health care coverage so critical to our nation's active duty personnel, their families, retirees, and survivors. While the world situation necessitates a modified force and base structure transformed for the new millennium, it should not carry with it an abandonment of the responsibility that our nation has to assist those who have served our country to obtain access to the health care services they need. 
   Make no mistake, retiree health care is a readiness issue, as well. Today's servicemembers are acutely aware of retirees' disenfranchisement from military health coverage, and exit surveys cite this issue with increasing frequency as one of the factors in members' decisions to leave service. In fact, a recent GAO study found that ``access to medical and dental care in retirement'' was the number five career dissatisfier among active duty officers in retention-critical specialties. 
   Failure to keep health care commitments is hurting service recruiting efforts as well. Traditionally, retirees have been the services' most effective recruiters, and their children and those of family friends have had a high propensity to serve. Unfortunately, increasing numbers of retirees who have seen the government renege on its ``lifetime health care'' promises have become reluctant to recommend service careers to their family members and friends. Restoring their confidence in their health care coverage will go a long way toward restoring this invaluable recruiting resource. 
   One of the reasons that Congress has not implemented meaningful reform in the past is because of the cost of providing quality health care. Although Congress has increased the President's defense budget requests to attempt to meet our future needs, it has squandered billions each year on projects the military did not request and does not need. This year alone, Congress appropriated over $6 billion for wasteful, unnecessary, and low-priority projects that have absolutely no positive effect on preparing our military for future challenges. 
   Congress also continues to refuse to close military bases that are not essential to our security, permitting politics to outweigh military readiness, at a cost to the taxpayer of nearly $7 billion each year. If Congress would allow the Pentagon to privatize or consolidate depot and base maintenance activities, savings of $2 billion each year could be achieved. In addition, Congress refuses to eliminate anti-competitive ``Buy American'' restrictions, which could save almost $5.5 billion annually on defense contracts. 
   These common sense reforms alone would free up more than $20 billion per year, which could be used to begin remedying our readiness shortfalls and provide once-and-for-all a quality health care delivery system for our aged military retirees. 
   Additionally, most disgraceful is the fact that, while Congress wastes taxpayer money on obsolete infrastructure, unneeded weapons systems, and projects that have no meaningful value to the Armed Forces, it simultaneously refuses to adequately pay the nearly 12,000 enlisted military personnel who are forced to subsist on food stamps. 
   In October 1999, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the rest of the Joint Chiefs testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee on the state of the military and universally declared the year 2000 to be the year of health care reform. Although this was a critical step for the senior uniformed military leadership to acknowledge this thinking in their testimony to the Senate, it must not become our military's Y2K problem and fall prey to election year politics. 
   On October 26, 1999 General Henry Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified before the Senate Committee on Armed Services: 
   Although we have done much over the past year to improve readiness, much more needs to be done to sustain the momentum. This year, for example, we intend to focus on another component that affects personnel readiness, the quality of our military medical system ....... The Joint Chiefs are fully committed to supporting the Department of Defense efforts to improve both the fact and the perception of military health care for all the beneficiaries. Those who serve or have served proudly deserve quality care.  
   One of the critical pieces of the last several years' laws on military health care was the institution of several limited pilot projects in Medicare subvention and FEHBP. As important as the select locations was the cooperation that was achieved between several agencies who were responsible for implementing the pilot project legislation devised by the Republican Congress. These pilot projects serve as important interim measures for health care reform and as a valuable comparisons of the strengths and weaknesses of the military health care delivery system. Moreover, valuable lessons can be learned from comparing the current state of the military health care program with those available in the private sector system that may have applicability to the military system, to lay the groundwork for a more comprehensive reform effort. 
   The rush to implement military health care reform and the evaluation of current health care delivery pilot projects must be balanced with the need to provide critical health care to the over-65 military retirees and their families. Their angst towards losing any minimal health care they had from the time they retired to turning age-65 is multiplied on their 65th birthday. If this is to be the year of military health care, a key part of this effort must entail reassuring these older retirees that the Department of Defense will no longer deny or ignore their legitimate health care needs. By doing so, Congress also will be taking an essential step to reassure today's servicemembers that the government does, in fact, keep its recruiting and retention promises concerning health care and other career service benefits. 
   The legislation that I am working on in the Senate would be the next step down the road to meaningful reform of our Nation's military health care delivery system. This legislation would offer the military retiree and his family several health care delivery plans to choose from. Having the choice to decide which health care plan works well is important for two reasons. One to be able to control overall health care reform costs and secondly, each retirees needs are different. Some military retirees may not mind driving 100 miles to a military treatment facility for health care as long as they have access to a viable, quality pharmaceutical plan. Other military retirees and their families may not be able to drive long distances for their primary health care needs and instead require a health care delivery plan that is much closer to their home. Another objective of this health care reform plan, is that in the event of another base closure round, any plan be portable and less dependent on any military hospital system. 
   Some military retirees live near military installations and would be happy to use military care if they only had access to it. Others who live far from installations may be satisfied with the addition of a relatively low-cost prescription drug benefit. Still others desperately need full-coverage insurance such as FEHBP. 
   I am working on another key health care bill with cosponsors Representative NORWOOD from Georgia and Representative SHOWS from Mississippi. I have worked closely with my dear friend and Medal of Honor recipient, Colonel Bud Day, over the years and he has helped me to understand how unfair our health care system is to our military retirees and the governments' failure to keep its promise to them. I believe that if we are to restore the credibility in our government we must begin by keeping our promises to our men and women in uniform, past and present. 
   The health care reform plan that is enacted must also promote more efficiency in the military health care system. Right now our military health care system which offers limited health care benefits to those over-age 65 retirees is operating $800 million in the red. There are many efficiency practices that the beneficiaries have brought to my attention that would improve the military health care delivery system through: better billing practices, quality control of electronic forms processing, regular surveys of military health care beneficiaries, and bringing the various health care delivery systems under a single system could save hundreds of millions of dollars. 
   The federal government must not abandon the health care coverage needs of our nation's military retirees, their families, and survivors. I will continue  to work over the next couple of months with The Military Coalition and The Military Veterans Alliance, representing nearly 10 million members, to enact comprehensive reform of the military health care system, which fulfills our obligation to our military retirees, and bolsters retention and readiness among today's servicemembers by assuring them that retention promises will be fulfilled once their active service is over. 
   Mr. President, next year will be, in the words of the Joint Chiefs, the year of health care reform. I hope that my colleagues will join me in supporting the ``Contract With Our Service Members--Past and Present.'' A key objective of this Contract, legislation to reform our military health care system, must be successful if Congress is to restore the American people's faith in their government. 
   Thank you and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I agree with my colleague that the authors of this bill did not mean to interfere with the expert technical and regulatory judgment of the FCC with respect to licensing applicants in the Ku-band. The term ``primary user'' in Section 2002 is intended to include primary users, regardless of whether these users are primary on the date of enactment or are later designated as primary. The provision in no way seeks to grant preferential regulatory treatment to terrestrial license applicants over satellite system applicants. While there appears to be an error in the report accompanying this legislation, which incorrectly states that the statute says that ``existing'' primary users must be protected, clearly the statute does not contain this qualifier, and it is our intent that the FCC protect primary users, whether designated now, or later. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I cannot support this budget deal because it spends the budget surplus, breaks our pledge to reduce the size and intrusiveness of the government, fails to deliver the tax relief American families deserve, and further imperils the Social Security system upon which so many Americans depend for their retirement security. 
   The ``budget crisis'' has become an annual, end-of-the-year ritual in which closed-door deals produce even more fodder for public cynicism about their government. This budget deal short-changes American taxpayers and benefits special interests, illustrating once again that the President and a majority of the Congress would rather spend the budget surplus on big government, special interest giveaways, and pork-barrel spending. 
   This deal makes a mockery of our obligation to responsibly exercise the ``power of the purse'' conferred on the Congress by the Constitution. 
   It busts the budget caps set just two years ago by more than $20 billion. 
   It obscures the true cost of the deal by using $36 billion in budget gimmickry. 
   It contains nearly $14 billion in everyday, garden-variety pork-barrel spending. 
   It spends every dime of the non-Social Security surplus, instead of setting that money aside to provide tax relief to American families, and shore up Social Security and Medicare. 
   It resorts to an across-the-board budget cut to avoid dipping into the Social Security surplus, rather than making the hard choices among spending priorities. 
   Some people have said this year's deal is not as bad as last year's deal. Looking at some statistics, that could be true to a certain extent: 
   Last year, the omnibus appropriations bill was 4,000 pages long and weighed over 40 pounds; this year's stack of bills is only about 1,500 pages long but it's almost a foot high. 
   Last year's deal was done 21 days late and covered 8 of the regular appropriations bill that funded 10 federal agencies; this year's deal covers only 5 of the regular spending bills for 7 agencies, but it's 50 days overdue--more than twice as late as last year. 
   Last year, the negotiators added more than $20 billion in extra spending; this year, they only added a little more than $6 billion. 
   And last year, the whole deal was wrapped up in a single bill that included the text of 7 spending bills and a host of other legislation; this year, we are casting one vote, but it will count as a vote on each of 10 separate bills.  
   I guess one could legitimately claim, based on those statistics, that this year's deal is not as bad as last year's deal. But like last year, this year's budget-busting behemoth is not amendable by any Member of Congress not involved in the negotiations over the past several weeks. Like last year, the process was deliberately designed to prevent any Member of Congress from changing any aspect of this back-room deal. What a farce. 
   Mr. President, like last year, this non-amendable budget deal is loaded down with pork, its true cost is obscured by budget gimmickry, and it is weighed down by policy ``riders'' that have no place in budget bills. 
   Before this deal was cut, the Senate had already passed spending bills containing over $13 billion in wasteful, unnecessary, and low-priority spending that was added without benefit of consideration in the normal, merit-based review process. That's more than the $11 billion added by Congress for Fiscal Year 1999, and almost twice the $7 billion wasted in Fiscal Year 1998. On my website, I have published 264 pages of pork-barrel spending projects in the appropriations bills that passed the Senate earlier this year. 
   The bill before the Senate today contains even more everyday, garden-variety pork-barrel spending--almost half a billion dollars more than in the original bills. Some items which agencies were ``encouraged'' or ``urged'' to fund in earlier versions of these appropriations bills have now been earmarked for funding. Other projects that were earmarked in report language are now included in the bill language. Presumably, these further clarifications of Congressional intent were included to improve upon the already near certainty that these pork-barrel projects will be funded ahead of other projects of possibly higher priority or more deserving of the taxpayers' support. 
   Just a few examples of new earmarks and special interest items in this bill include: 
   $2 million for the University of Mississippi for a phytomedicine project. 
   $1 million for the Noble Army Hospital of Alabama bio-terrorism program. 
   $300,000 for the Vasona Center Youth Science Institute. 
   $5 million for the International Law Enforcement Center for the Western Hemisphere in Roswell, New Mexico 
   $160,000 for a Mason City, Iowa, bus facility 
   $250,000 for the New York Hall of Science in Queens, New York 
   $100,000 for the Philadelphia Orchestra's Philly Pops to run a jazz-in-the-schools program in Philadelphia 
   $2.5 million for the Dante-Fascell North-South Center 
   $1,840,000 for Kansas buses and bus facilities (in addition to the $1.5 million already provided). 
   Mr. President, as my colleagues know, over $7.4 billion of the pork-barrel spending in this year's budget is in the defense budget, including almost $1 billion in low-priority military construction projects. This waste is disgraceful at a time when the Army's most recent assessments of its forces show none of the Army's divisions is rated at the highest state of readiness, or C-1. Not one of our Army divisions has the resources and training to undertake the wartime missions for which they are ordered to be ready. Shortfalls in personnel, parts, and funding, combined with extended deployments on peacekeeping and other contingency operations, have contributed to a serious decline that puts our soldiers at greater risk if a conflict were to erupt, and threatens the ability of our forces to prevail. This is a disgrace and an abomination that the American people will not tolerate. 
   Mr. President, for those who wonder how these projects are paid for, let's look at the clever budget gimmicks that are included in this deal. 
   First, there is the ``emergency'' spending designation, which most reasonable people assume should be used only for disasters, emergencies, and other unforeseeable happenings. Well, in this deal, the Congress has expanded somewhat the definition of ``emergency'' to include: the 2000 census, which we've known about since the Constitution was written, routine military training and base operations, and even the Head Start program. 
   So-called emergencies in this year's spending bills add up to $24 billion. Some of the uses of these funds are truly emergencies, such as alleviating severe economic hardship on small farmers or assisting those devastated by hurricanes. But over half of the emergency funds are designated as such in a blatant effort to avoid the discipline of the budget caps. The reality, however, is that ``emergency'' spending must still be paid for by tax revenues. And the tax revenues that will pay for most of these emergencies are those generated by Social Security taxes, that are supposed to be reserved to pay benefits for retirees. 
   Another gimmick is the use of ``forward-funding'', whereby money is appropriated for projects or programs, but it cannot be spent until the first day of the next fiscal year. This money is not counted against this year's budget caps, but again, it is real spending that must be paid for next year, within even more stringent budget caps. 
   Using the ``forward funding'' gimmick, a staggering $10 billion for job training, medical research, and education grants is pushed into next year, potentially impairing the management and effectiveness of these programs. In addition, the Department of Defense is directed to delay timely payments on its contracts to save $2 billion. This gimmick will result in higher costs for the Pentagon because of late payment fees and disruption in programs under contract. 
   Mr. President, most disgraceful, however, is a new gimmick that will delay paychecks for all military personnel and federal civilian employees for three days from September 29 to October 2, 2000. For the sake of a few billion dollars worth of pork, the Congress is withholding hard-earned pay from those who volunteer to serve their nation in the military or as a civil servant. 
   The potential impact on these men and women and their families is immeasurable. Many may have to pay late fees on rent or other bills and penalties and higher interest on credit cards. Some families, especially those who already are forced to subsist on food stamps, will have to struggle doubly hard to put food on the table while they wait for the Congress to pay them for their service. 
   Mr. President, I find it absolutely outrageous that the Congress would attempt to balance this pork-laden budget deal on the backs of our men and women in uniform. Is this the way we show our respect and appreciation for those who are willing to put their lives at risk for all of our freedoms? Is this the way we repay the families of our service men and women who spend many months and years separated from their loved ones during wars and overseas assignments? This is disgraceful, and I am ashamed that the Congress would take this action against those whose duty and sacrifice we should honor, not abuse. 
   Mr. President, I think it is important that the American public know that this paycheck slip gimmick--a gimmick that denies our proud men and women in the military, and hard-working people who work for the government the pay they have worked for and deserve--this gimmick does not affect the Congress. No one who works on Capitol Hill will get their paychecks even a day late. No one who was involved in negotiating this abominable deal--not Senators or Congressmen or their staffs--will get their paychecks late. Clearly, this demonstrates to the American people the Congress' opinion of its own importance. 
   Several other gimmicks abound in this deal--transferring surplus funds from the Federal Reserve into general revenues, improved collection of student loans, and more rescissions of funding from various programs, totaling several billion dollars in claimed savings. 
   And finally, in order to get closer to balancing the books on this budget deal, the negotiators picked and chose among the cost estimates provided by the competing budget scorekeepers for the Congress and the Administration, taking the lowest estimate they could find for each program so that they could squeeze more pork into the deal. The negotiators claim that their deal costs about $17 billion less the Congressional Budget Office estimates. What this means is that, despite vehement claims to the contrary, $17 billion of the Social Security surplus will be used to pay for the waste and largesse in  this budget deal. Taking another $17 billion from an already financially unstable Social Security system will only exacerbate the fears of many Americans about their retirement security. 
   Ironically, Mr. President, none of these specific gimmicks yielded enough ``savings'' to bring the budget deal back under control and keep our hands out of the Social Security cookie 
   jar. And since no one was willing to volunteer cuts in any of their special interest programs, the negotiators took the easy way out. Rather than setting budget priorities, like any American family must do to make ends meet, the negotiators resorted to an across-the-board cut of about $2 billion. 
   At first glance, one would think that the President, who so stridently objected to this indiscriminate cut when he vetoed an earlier bill, would have objected to its inclusion in this deal. But it seems that the negotiators decided to give the President a whole lot of flexibility in choosing the programs that will be cut. For example: 
   If the President doesn't want to cut the White House travel budget by four-tenths of a percent, he can instead cut funding for the National Security Council staff. 
   If he doesn't want to cut the staff budget of the Attorney General, he can instead cut the funding for the Waco investigation or take a million dollars out of programs to prevent violence against women. 
   If he doesn't want to cut the administrative accounts of the Secretary of Education, he can cut Head Start by another couple million dollars. 
   If he doesn't want to cut the drug czar's office expenses account, he can cut $200,000 or more of the funding for the anti-heroin strategy. 
   If the President doesn't want to cut four-tenths of a percent of the funding for any one program, he can instead cut up to 15 percent of any line item approved by the Congress in any appropriations bill this year to get the savings. 
   Even though I clearly don't think Congress has done a very good job of allocating resources among our nation's priorities, why in the world would the Congress cede to the President the ability to decide where to take almost $2 billion from programs that have been approved by Congress through the appropriations process? Frankly, I recommend that the President take that money out of the $13 billion in pork that the Congress added to the budget. 
   Finally, Mr. President, let me take a moment to talk about the policy ``riders'' that have found their way into the appropriations process this year. As my colleagues know, the Senate has a rule--Rule 16--that is supposed to prevent the inclusion of legislative or authorizing provisions in spending bills. In fact, the Senate voted earlier this year to reinstate that rule. Unfortunately, when a process moves behind closed doors, these ``riders'' seem to proliferate. 
   There were over 65 legislative riders on the appropriations bills that passed the Senate earlier this year, but it seems that every time I turn around, I hear about another issue that will be rolled into this non-amendable budget package. 
   Perhaps that is a result of the fact that these end-of-the-year budget deals are usually negotiated by Members of the Appropriations Committee, rather than the authorizers. Or it may be driven by the need to garner support for the deal from Members who may have a special interest in an issue. Whatever the reason, the inclusion of legislative matters thwarts the very process that is needed to ensure that our laws address the concerns and interests of all Americans, not just a few who seek special protection or advantage. 
   Some of these riders are not necessarily objectionable to me, but the circumvention of the authorization process that took place makes me unable to benefit from the advice and recommendations of the committees of jurisdiction and their members. I should note, however, that many of the reported efforts to add riders to the bill were unsuccessful, for which I applaud the negotiators. However, most of the 32 new riders in this bill are highly objectionable because of their content as well as the process that led to their inclusion in this budget deal. 
   For example, one of the last-minute riders in this legislation would grant a new lease on life to the milk cartel known as the Northeast Dairy Compact, which milks consumers in New England by providing an above-market price to the region's dairy farmers. The compact is set to expire under a bill this Congress passed in 1996, but the pending legislation would reverse this ``Freedom to Farm'' reform. The legislation before us would also overturn milk pricing reforms mandated by Congress in 1996, supported by our Department of Agriculture, and ratified by the nation's dairy farmers in a referendum last summer. These reforms were developed by USDA over a three-year period and reflect a consensus-based approach worked out with America's dairy farmers and producers. Consumer groups estimate that blocking milk pricing reform in favor of the current system, as this legislation does, will cost consumers across America between $185 million and $1 billion a year--a sharp blow to low-income individuals, who spend more on dairy products as a portion of household income. I cannot in good conscience support the repeal of market-oriented reforms passed by a Republican Congress in 1996 to benefit American consumers. I fear that, yet again, a narrow core of special interests has trumped the people's interest in consumer-oriented milk pricing and marketing reforms. 
   Another last-minute rider will carve out liability exemptions for certain recycling businesses under the Superfund law. Although these same provisions are under consideration in a separate bill as well as part of a broader Superfund reform effort, this rider affords special treatment to a small group of affected industries with a last-minute add-on that is another of a targeted special interest deal. Superfund reform is important to our nation, yet such piece-meal measures can thwart the intentions and progress of those who have made good-faith efforts to work through a legislative process. 
   Regarding the inclusion in this deal of the restoration of certain Medicare benefits, in 1997, Congress made some difficult, but necessary changes in the financial structure of the Medicare system as a part of the Balanced Budget Act. These changes were needed to strengthen the system and delay its impending bankruptcy from 2001 until 2015. These reforms allowed us to preserve and protect the Medicare program while increasing choice and expanding benefits for beneficiaries. 
   However, at the end of last year, many of us began hearing from health care providers and seniors about the unintended negative consequences which certain provisions may be having on current beneficiaries and providers in the Medicare system. There has been increasing concern that certain reimbursement reductions and caps contained in the Balanced Budget Act could result in access problems for our nation's seniors if they were not adjusted this year. Personally, I have grown increasingly concerned about this problem, particularly about the negative impact on health care delivery which it may pose for our nation's most frail or rural elderly. 
   While I support the overall intentions of these provisions, I am concerned about provisions which have been slipped in to benefit only a select area or specific companies, rather than addressing the national problem of access to safe, quality and affordable health care for Medicare recipients. For example, hospitals in Iredell County, North Carolina; Orange County, New York; Lake County, Indiana; Lee County, Illinois; Hamilton-Middletown, Ohio; Brazoria County, Texas; and Chittenden County, Vermont are given special consideration for reimbursement under the Medicare program. Wesley Medical Center in Mississippi as well as Lehigh Valley Hospital are given special reimbursement consideration under this bill. Meanwhile, the District of Columbia, Minnesota, Wyoming and New Mexico are provided increases for their hospitals. Sadly, Congress has once again taken a well intentioned piece of legislation and inserted provisions directly benefitting only a select few at the expense of all taxpayers. 
   Finally, Mr. President, nothing would please me more than being able to endorse all the satellite television provisions included in this appropriations bill. Some of them are good news for satellite TV consumers, who would  gain the ability to receive local TV signals as part of their satellite TV service package, have discontinued distant network TV station signal service restored, and be relieved of unfair limitations on their ability to subscribe to distant network signals when their local network stations are unwatchable off-air. Cable TV subscribers would also be indirect beneficiaries, because anything that makes satellite TV a more attractive alternative to cable TV increases the cable operators' incentive to keep monthly rates in check. Considering the fact that cable TV rates have increased more than 20 percent since the passage of the 1996 Telecom Act, cable subscribers more than deserve this kind of break. 
   Despite all this, and despite the fact that I have worked for over a year and a half to bring procompetitive relief to satellite TV and cable TV subscribers, I find myself having to speak out against some of the other satellite TV provisions that also appear in this bill. 
   Why? Because these other provisions substantially undercut the bill's promised consumer benefits. Why, then, were they included? To protect special interests--in this case, the TV broadcasters, the TV program producers, and the professional sports leagues. 
   The primary special interest benefitted by these new provisions is the TV broadcasters. Under the law they're considered to be ``public trustees,'' and as such they have enjoyed considerable protection against competition, thanks to the Congress (which fears the power of the local network stations) and to the FCC (which fears the Congress). 
   Nevertheless, neither Congress nor the FCC can hold back technology, and local broadcasters have increasingly found themselves subjected to competition from new multichannel video technologies--first cable TV, and now, satellite TV. So the last thing the broadcast TV industry is receptive to is the prospect that satellite TV might be able to increase its competitive power and thereby lure more of the local broadcast audience--and revenue base--away. 
   That was one of the reasons why local broadcasters finally sued satellite TV companies that were offering distant network TV stations to subscribers who technically weren't entitled to receive them--even though many of these subscribers had, in fact, been receiving them for years without causing any apparent harm to local stations. The lawsuit was successful, and as a result many existing satellite TV subscribers found their distant network stations suddenly dropped, even when they couldn't get satisfactory off-air service from their local stations. 
   Not surprisingly, this led to widespread consumer protest. The House and the Senate Commerce Committees passed legislation that, taken together, would have solved satellite TV consumers' problems without inflicting material harm on broadcasters. But the legislation before us today contains a number of new provisions that will hurt satellite TV consumers and serve no purpose other than protecting the congruent interests of the well-heeled TV broadcasters, program producers, and professional sports leagues. These new provisions will adversely impact the very competition Congress claims it's trying to enhance, and the very satellite TV consumers Congress claims it's trying to help. 
   The first of these objectionable new provisions directly affects the ability of satellite TV companies to offer their subscribers local TV stations. Specifically, it governs the process whereby satellite TV companies negotiate with the TV networks for the rights to carry their local affiliates. 
   This issue has always been one of considerable concern because the TV networks have the stronger bargaining position, and the incentives, to extract unfair prices and conditions from satellite TV companies in return for giving them the right to carry local affiliates. Satellite TV companies' inability to offer local network stations has been cited repeatedly as the principal competitive disadvantage satellite TV companies face. The TV networks, therefore, begin with a strong bargaining advantage. Added to this is the fact that the networks also hold substantial cable TV programming interests, which increases the possibility that they could seek to extract further competition-dampening conditions that would serve the interests of their cable-channel partners. And, of course, the fact that the networks' local affiliates have been in litigation with the satellite TV industry adds to the concerns about the networks' incentives to withhold consent to carry their local affiliates unless, and until, the satellite TV carriers agree to whatever onerous and unfair terms and prices the networks might choose to dictate. 
   Now let's see how this legislation deals with this critical issue. Not only does this legislation omit fair-dealing requirements that had been included in the House bill; it adds a new provision, 
   dictated by the broadcast industry, that makes a mockery of any notion of fair dealing. 
   This new provision gives satellite TV companies a six-month ``shot-clock'' to negotiate and obtain a signed retransmission consent agreement from a TV network for carriage of its local affiliate. During this time the satellite TV company could begin offering the station to its subscribers. 
   But there's a catch if, at the end of six months, the satellite TV company doesn't get the consent. First of all, the broadcaster, and only the broadcaster, is allowed to file a complaint and request a cease-and-desist order from the FCC. Moreover, the legislation doesn't simply deprive an aggrieved satellite TV company of the ability to file a complaint against an unreasonably recalcitrant broadcaster; it goes further, and specifically denies the satellite TV company any right to claim that the broadcaster didn't negotiate in good faith. These patently unfair provisions are complemented by penalties so stringent that no satellite TV company in its right mind would knowingly risk them. 
   Let's examine exactly what this is will mean in real terms. The big benefit that satellite TV consumers are supposed to get from this legislation is local signals, and their ability to get local signals depends on their satellite TV company's ability to close a deal with the networks, which have strong bargaining power and palpable disincentives to deal dispassionately. So what does this new provision do? It deletes the substantive provision that would have provided a statutory guarantee of fair dealing, adds a complaint process front-loaded to benefit the party that has the stronger bargaining position and the incentive to deal unfairly, deprives the party that's in the weaker bargaining position from raising unfair treatment as a defense, and imposes huge penalties on the party with the weaker bargaining position if it fails to enter into an agreement before the six-month deadline expires. 
   In practical terms, this presents any underdog satellite TV companies that don't already have retransmission consent agreements with a set of Hobson's Choices when it comes to offering local stations. They can, of course, simply not begin carrying local stations unless and until they have the required retransmission consents. That's the safest thing to do. But if they don't start carrying local signals right away, they certainly won't be offering their customers the ``local stations by Christmas'' promised by those who back this legislation. In addition, they'll not only be perpetuating the competitive disadvantage they already face when it comes to competing with cable TV; they'll be incurring a completely new competitive disadvantage when it comes to competing with other satellite TV companies that already have agreements. If, on the other hand, a satellite TV company begins offering local signals before obtaining the necessary agreements, it entails the risk that if the six month negotiation period runs out without mutually-acceptable terms having been reached, the satellite TV company will have to either drop the local signals or agree to whatever terms the network wants. 
   Pretty clearly, the effect of this new provision is pro-broadcaster, not pro-consumer or pro-competitive. But it's not the only new provision that protects special interests at the expense of the public's interest. This legislation also protects local network TV stations from any action by the FCC to change an outdated 50-year old law whose effect is to prevent many satellite TV subscribers from receiving additional distant network stations. 
   The legislation's new program blackout provisions are another Congressional valentine to special interests.  These provisions could result in blackouts of scheduled network programming, non-network programming, and especially sports programming, on the distant stations satellite TV consumers get. This will make the broadcasters and TV program producers happy, at the expense of making millions of satellite TV consumers unhappy when uninterrupted reception of distant station programming becomes a thing of the past. The sports programming that so many satellite TV consumers enjoy is at the greatest risk. In a special favor to the NFL and the other professional sports leagues, the legislation will require satellite TV carriers to black out sports programming on distant network stations unless the FCC finds it's ``economically prohibitive'' for the satellite TV company to do so--a standard that virtually guarantees blackouts. And when these blackouts are imposed, no existing satellite TV subscriber--not even those who have their distant network signal service restored, or the big backyard dish owners who were the very first satellite TV subscribers--would be exempt, no matter how long they have received multiple distant stations without blackouts and without inflicting any detectable harm on any of the special interests at whose behest these new provisions were added. 
   Rather than prolonging this discussion further, let me sum up. Before you now is the latest example of how special interests can, and do, make Congress shape legislation to suit what they want, rather than what average Americans need and deserve.. At some point, the American people will get fed up, and the ability of special interests to exercise unwarranted influence like this will be constrained. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen today, and therefore I will close--but not without some promises that, I assure you, I intend to keep. 
   I will continue to do everything I can to make sure that satellite TV consumers are helped, and multichannel competition improves, after this legislation is enacted. I will convene the Commerce Committee early next year to examine how competition and consumers are being affected by this legislation. I will introduce and I will move new legislation to correct any problems we see. 
   I will also make sure that the FCC does all it can to help Congress serve the interests of satellite TV consumers and multichannel video competition. To begin this process I will send a letter tomorrow to FCC Chairman William Kennard, requesting that the Commission establish, as quickly as possible, the minimum requirements for bargaining in ``good faith'' for retransmission consent agreements, and submit recommendations to Congress, as quickly as possible, on further legislation that will redefine what constitutes a ``viewable'' local TV signal. This will remove the problem that keeps satellite TV subscribers from getting as many distant TV stations from their satellite TV companies as they otherwise could. 
   All these measures will enable us to cure the problems these particular special-interest provisions will cause. In the meantime, it's helpful to recall that in the final analysis they won't affect our everyday lives as profoundly as other special interests do when it comes to other legislation. The provisions before us today won't determine how much we must pay in taxes, how we are permitted to educate our children, how we obtain health care, or how our seniors will be protected. But in spite of that, they will serve to remind us--when we watch satellite TV or open our monthly cable TV bills--that, when it comes to legislation pending before Congress, no corporate issue is too small, and no consumer issue is too big, to avoid the pervasive grasp of entrenched special interests. 
   Mr. President, I cannot support this budget deal. 
   I wonder, Mr. President, when will we begin to listen to the American people? When will we take heed of the absolute cynicism about the ways of Washington? When will we reform the way we do business so that we might reclaim the faith and confidence of the people we are sworn to serve? 
   Sadly, we seem never to learn. The last-minute, end-of-year budget agreement has become a yearly ritual and a tired cliche. 
   Mr. President, we have all year to complete our business in a responsible manner like grownups. But every day, at great expense to the taxpayers, we whirl about in our self-importance, never to be diverted from playing at our pathetic partisan political games. 
   After all the hearings, paper-shuffling, and speech-making, the taxpayers' hard-earned money is spent according to the whims of a massive, hastily compiled budget deal that contains lots of goodies for Members of Congress and special interests, but very little for the American people--an annual monument to our arrogance that is chock full of pork-barrel spending, special-interest riders, and clever budget gimmicks, but not one morsel of family tax relief. 
   Mr. President, in just a few short weeks, we will usher in a new century and a new millennium. This is a time of renewal and reform. Just as individual Americans take stock of themselves and resolve to do and be better, perhaps we elected officials might resolve to set a better example in the way we conduct the people's business. Perhaps in the year 2000, we might address ourselves not to partisan gridlock and political games, but to restoring the people's faith in their elected leaders. Perhaps next year we can spare the American people the grim faces and high drama of the last-minute budget summit, and simply do our work responsibly, in the open, and on time. 
   Maybe then we can restore the confidence in our public institutions that is so badly flagging, but is so essential to making the new century worthy of the highest dreams and aspirations of the people we are privileged to serve. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to establish a process to eliminate and reform federal subsidies and tax advantages received by corporations. This bill, ``The Corporate Subsidy Reform Commission Act'' is identical to a bill that was reported out of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee in May, 1997. I am pleased to have as cosponsors Senators THOMPSON, LIEBERMAN, and ABRAHAM. 
   I would like to briefly describe the major provisions of the Corporate Subsidy Reform Commission Act. It defines inequitable subsidies as those provided to corporations without a reasonable expectation that they will return a commensurate benefit to the public. 
   The Act excludes any subsidies that are primarily for research and development, education, public health, safety, or the environment. Also excluded are subsidies or tax advantages necessary to comply with international trade or treaty obligations. 
   The Act would create a nine-member commission nominated by the President and the Congressional leadership. Federal agencies would be required to submit to the Commission, at the time of the Administration's next budget, a list of subsidies and tax advantages that it believes are inequitable. The Commission will provide recommendations to either terminate or reduce the corporate subsidies. The President has the authority under the Act to either terminate the process, or submit the Commission's recommendations to the Congress as a legislative initiative. 
   The Congress would then have four months to review the Commission's recommendations which have been endorsed by the President. At that time, the actions of all involved committees in each respective body would be sent to the floor for debate, under expedited procedures. 
   Many federal subsidies and special-interest tax breaks for corporations are unnecessary, and do not provide a fair return to the taxpayers who bear the heavy burden of their cost. If a corporation is receiving taxpayer-funded subsidies or tax breaks that are unsupported by a compelling benefit to the public, the subsidy should be ended. 
   Our nation is just now beginning to pay down a national debt of over $5 trillion. Every American shoulders an unconscionable amount of debt--somewhere in the range of $19,000 each--not due to any profligate spending of their own, but because of the fiscal irresponsibility of their elected officials in Congress. 
   The citizens who expect leadership and accountability from their representatives have gotten special interest pandering in return. This is devastating to our nation's fiscal stability, and crippling to the ability of the Congress to respond to truly urgent social needs such as health care, education, and national security. 
   Let me note a couple of estimates of this scope of unjustified federal subsidies to corporations that illustrates how expensive this burden is. When I first introduced this legislation, the CATO Institute had identified 125 federal programs that provided over $85 billion in industry subsidies. The Progressive Policy Institute identified an additional $30 billion in tax loopholes for major industries. 
   Unfortunately, the pervasive system of pork-barreling and special interest legislating is speeding along unabated in Washington. Instead of pursuing our nation's priorities in a bipartisan manner, both parties continue to legislate, posture, and spend for partisan advantage. I have worked hard during my service in the Senate to eliminate wasteful earmarks in appropriations bills. Yet this year alone, more than $13 billion in pork barrel spending was approved by the Senate. I was also dismayed at the inclusion of numerous special-interest tax breaks contained in the comprehensive tax bill passed by the Congress this year, then vetoed. 
   Mr. President, I want to state openly that I would strongly prefer to eliminate corporate subsidies and inequitable tax subsidies without resorting to a commission. I would rather have every committee in the House and Senate open the next session of Congress by expeditiously examining their areas of jurisdiction for unwarranted corporate pork. Then, each respective body could engage in a full and thorough debate on the merits of each subsidy, and vote on their termination or modification. However, I regret that approach is unlikely to occur, because of the difficulty in resisting the requests of the special interests. The bill I am introducing today represents a practical approach to establishing not only a credible process to identify corporate pork, but to then take the important next step of achieving real reductions on behalf of over-taxed constituents. 
   I look forward to this bill being brought before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee early next year. To ensure that the Senate Committee on Finance has an opportunity to evaluate any tax policy modifications contained in this Act, I have agreed to a sequential referral consent request with the leadership of those two committees. I am hopeful that this bill represents the beginning of a serious and productive process to alleviate the public burden of unnecessary corporate subsidies and tax breaks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today the Senate will consider H.R. 3419, the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999. H.R. 3419 reflects a negotiated compromise between the House and Senate on two bills (S. 1501 and H.R. 2679). I want to extend my appreciation to Senators HUTCHISON, HOLLINGS, and BREAUX, along with Congressmen SHUSTER and OBERSTAR, for their bipartisan effort in developing this comprehensive motor carrier safety legislation. I also want to acknowledge the recommendations by the Office of the Department of Transportation (DOT) Inspector General, Ken Mead and his staff, as well as the highway safety advocates, truck drivers, industry officials, and safety enforcement officials for their suggestions on improving truck and bus safety. 
   During the past year, significant attention has been directed toward truck safety issues in both chambers. Following a comprehensive analysis on the federal motor carrier safety program by the DOT Inspector General, the Commerce Committee held two hearings on truck safety concerns. The  House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee also conducted a number of oversight hearings and DOT initiated its own programmatic review. Based on these efforts, a consensus on the need to enact legislation to improve truck safety developed leading to the bipartisan legislation before the Senate today. 
   The Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act would establish a separate Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration within the DOT to carry out motor carrier safety responsibilities. I clearly do not desire to expand the size of the federal government. I know my view is shared by many of my colleagues. However, the near unanimous views voiced by all the interested parties involved in motor carrier safety agree that a separate agency is needed to remedy a severe lack of leadership over motor carrier safety enforcement and regulatory responsibilities at DOT. This legislation addresses this serious safety lapse, but guards against increasing the already bloated Federal bureaucracy by capping employment and funding for the new agency for Fiscal Year 2000. 
   This legislation provides additional motor carrier safety funding and we fully expect those resources to be dedicated toward increased motor carrier safety enforcement and inspection activities. The cost for unnecessary headquarters administrative or overhead positions, including public affairs officers, congressional liaison representatives and other nonsafety related positions, is not a proper use of the additional authorized funding. Therefore, the Administration is required to provided a detailed justification to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure before increasing any administrative or overhead positions beyond the current level. 
   Mr. President, this legislation includes numerous provisions to remedy truck and bus safety problems. I believe one of the most important items in the bill is the provision directing the Department to implement all of the safety recommendations issued by the IG's April 1999 audit report. DOT has indicated it will act on some of the recommendations, but it has been 
   more than six months since the release of the IG's report and DOT has yet to articulate a definitive action plan to implement all of the IG's recommendations. I do not believe we can risk the consequences of ignoring any of these recommendations and accordingly, H.R. 3419 would require concrete action to eliminate the identified safety gaps at DOT. It also gives DOT authority to establish an advisory committee to assist the Secretary in the timely completion of rulemakings and other matters. 
   This legislation is also designed to improve the Commercial Driver's License program. It would ensure a commercial motor vehicle driver has only one driver record. This uniform driving record would include all traffic violation convictions, whether those violation are committed in a passenger vehicle or a commercial vehicle. The legislation would also require DOT to initiate a rulemaking to combine driver medical records with the commercial drivers license. 
   Mr. President, the legislation also initiates several actions to remedy inaccurate and incomplete safety data. We must have accurate data if we are going to be able to target enforcement action against unsafe carriers and get them off our roads. Consequently, H.R. 3419 directs the Secretary to carry out a program to improve the collection and analysis of commercial motor vehicle crash data, including accident causation. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), in cooperation with the newly established Motor Carrier Safety Administration, would administer the data improvement program. 
   The legislation also addresses problems identified by the DOT Inspector General concerning foreign truck companies. It reaffirms the existing prohibition on foreign motor carriers from operating or leasing equipment anywhere within the United States outside the boundaries of a commercial zone along the U.S.-Mexico Border unless such foreign carriers have DOT authority to operate beyond the zones. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that will require a comprehensive study of alternative land management options for areas comprising the Barry Goldwater military training range and Organ Pipe National Monument in Arizona. 
   Earlier this year, the Congress finalized the Department of Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2000 which included language to renew a land-withdrawal for the Barry Goldwater training range for an additional twenty-five years to the year 2024. The final proposal transferred land management of the natural and cultural resources within the range to the Air Force and the Navy, a decision that was fully supported by both the Interior Department and the President's Council on Environmental Quality. 
   In practical effect, the Air Force and Marine Corps have been performing the management functions at the Goldwater range for many years, and doing a very good job of it, according to most observers. In fact, the Department of Defense already dedicates significant resources to land and natural resource management of the Range. The decision to formally transfer management recognizes the superior fiscal and manpower resources available to the military Services, who also have the most compelling interest in maintaining future training access to the range, which can only be accomplished by effectively addressing environmental concerns regarding its use. 
   During consideration of the legislative environmental impact statements and subsequent renewal proposals, no one disagreed that essential military training should continue on the range. However, several environmental groups registered concerns about the Administration's proposal for DOD management of the Range and expressed their fears that the military Services would be inappropriate and ineffective natural resources managers. I took personal interest in these expressed concerns and advocated for the strongest possible language in the final withdrawal bill to redress any potential problems should the land management of these areas ever be jeopardized under primary military authority. 
   However, in response to continuing apprehension about proper land management in the newly passed withdrawal package, I worked with the concerned individuals to develop language directing the Department of the Interior to study and make recommendations for alternative land management scenarios for the range. Such a comprehensive study would provide information to guide the Administration and the Congress in taking appropriate future action to ensure that the cultural and natural resources on the range will continue to be preserved and protected in future years. 
   Although I was unable to convince my colleagues that studying various land management options should be added to the Defense authorization package, I am continuing to explore appropriate land management options for the long-term. I do so because it is important that we assure that the best possible protection will be provided to the unique natural and cultural resources of these areas, consistent with the primary purpose of the range. 
   While the Barry Goldwater Range will continue to serve its vital purpose, we have an obligation to ensure proper stewardship of our natural resources. This study will provide us with the critical information necessary to fulfill that obligation. Once an alternative management study is completed, I will ensure that any recommendations for improved management of the Goldwater Range are considered and acted on, as necessary, by the Congress. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to work with me to pass this legislation to ensure that the Goldwater Range is managed by the agency most qualified to protect the public's interest and preserve the precious land and natural resources of these pristine areas for future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991117</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, most unfortunately it appears unlikely that House and Senate conferees will be able to reach agreement this year on a multi-year bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration. I am bitterly disappointed at Congress' inability to act on this legislation because of a number of parliamentary budget fights that ignore the dire need to pass this bill. Yet one of my most prominent disappointments is the likelihood that Congress' efforts to amend the Death on the High Seas Act will fall by the wayside in the short term. We will be forced to postpone out efforts to make damage recovery fair for all family members of aviation accident victims who have died. 
   The Death on the High Seas Act is a 1920's-era law that was put in place to help compensate the wives of sailors who died at sea. The law allows survivors to recover pecuniary damages, or the lost wages of their relatives on whom they depended upon financially. Unlike modern tort law, the Death on the High Seas Act does not allow family members to recover for non-monetary damages, such as for pain and suffering, or to seek punitive damages. 
   Despite its benevolent inception, the Death on the High Seas Act has been used to limit the recovery of damages among the families of airline passengers whose lives have been lost over international waters. The family members of those who died on TWA Flight 800 and EgyptAir Flight 990, for instance, will not be able to seek the same compensation that they would be entitled to if these accidents had occurred over land. The parents of children killed in these accidents cannot sustain a legal claim for damages, since they did not depend upon their children as the family breadwinners. That is an inequity and an unintended consequence that we need to fix. 
   As I said earlier, Congress intended to fix these problems in the context of the FAA reauthorization bill, yet negotiations have stalled for unrelated reasons. Consequently, I want to pledge every effort to move Death on the High Seas Act legislation independently, as soon as possible next year. 
   The Commerce Committee will hold additional hearings on this issue as soon as Congress reconvenes in 2000. I will take the lead in working with my colleagues to ensure that legislation to limit the application of the Death on the High Seas Act to aviation accidents moves as quickly as possible through Congress. I believe it enjoys enormous support within Congress. At the very least, it should not be bogged down in unrelated controversies. 
   The families of aviation accident victims over international waters have waited far too long for Congress to make sure that their losses are accorded the same respect as those associated with accidents over land. Family members should know that their children have value in the eyes of the law. The recent aviation tragedies only highlight the need for prompt action.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991116</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably nomination lists which were printed in the RECORDS of the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar, that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that I was unable to be here for the votes yesterday on the minimum wage. 
   In the past, I have opposed increases in the minimum wage because of my concern about the impact on small businesses, as well as the combined effects of the 1996 minimum wage increase on jobs and the economy. Many small enterprises operate on a very thin margin, and the imposition of additional costs could result in the closure of businesses and the loss of jobs. Such an outcome would serve only to hurt the very people we are trying to assist. 
   I understand how difficult it is to make ends meet in today's economy. Many families are struggling and many small business people who create the vast majority of new jobs are clinging to solvency. I believe Congress must work to enact measures to strengthen the small business sector, bolster job creation, and enhance job security, including further responsible tax and regulatory relief. 
   I oppose the Kennedy amendment because it combines a minimum wage increase with an additional tax burden on the very businesses that will face higher personnel costs. I support the Domenici amendment to incrementally increase the minimum wage because it also provides real tax and regulatory relief for small business owners who may be adversely affected by the additional costs they will incur. 
   The Domenici amendment allows minimum-wage workers to earn a better living. At the same time, it provides $18.4 billion in tax relief over five years to small business people across America to help them offset the increased employee costs of this minimum wage increase. Small businesses will now be allowed to increase their expensing to $30,000, and benefit from a permanent extension of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit and a repeal of the temporary Federal Unemployment Tax Act surtax. Furthermore, this amendment allows 100-percent deduction for self-employed health insurance, phases in health-insurance and long-term care above-the-line deductions, and makes pension reform proposals to increase employees' financial security. This tax relief is entirely paid for by closing corporate tax loopholes in the first year and then using a small portion of the projected non-Social Security surplus in the ensuing years, without dipping into the Social Security Trust Fund. 
   One aspect of the Domenici amendment that troubles me is the increased deductibility of business meals and entertainment costs. I have always opposed allowing a tax deduction for the so-called ``three-martini power lunch'' for corporate executives, although this amendment limits the benefits of this tax deduction to small businesses and self-employed individuals. I question whether this tax deduction is the highest priority of small businesses, or whether there are other more broadly  beneficial tax breaks that could have been included in this bill to assist those businesses most likely to be affected by the minimum wage increase. 
   Mr. President, because the Domenici amendment combines a $1.00 increase in the minimum wage with tax and regulatory relief to offset the negative impact of increased personnel costs on small businesses and the economy as a whole, I would have voted for the amendment.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise on behalf of myself and my colleague, Senator KYL, to offer legislation that will make an important clarification to the Ak-Chin Water Rights Settlement Act of 1984. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House by Representative Shadegg. 
   Let me explain why this legislation is necessary. 
   In 1992, Congress amended the Ak-Chin Water Rights Settlement Act to allow the Ak-Chin Indian Community to enter into leases of the Community's water for a term not to exceed 100 years. On December 15, 1994, the Ak-Chin Indian Community entered into an agreement with the Del Webb Corporation to allow the company the option to lease up to 10,000 acre-feet of water for a period of 100 years from the date the option was exercised. Del Webb exercised the option on December 6, 1996, with a principal objective of providing a water supply for its development of a master-planned community in the Phoenix area. 
   However, since 1995, the State of Arizona, through its Department of Water Resources, has required certificates of assured water supply for 100 years for developments within the Phoenix Active Management Area. The 100-year assured water supply requirement is one of the key tenets of Arizona's water resource management. A certificate cannot be obtained unless a developer demonstrates that sufficient groundwater, surface water or adequate quality effluent will be continuously available to satisfy the proposed use of the development for at least 100 years. 
   Unfortunately, the lease as signed in 1996 has now matured for three years without the actual application to the Arizona Department of Water Resources for a certificate of assured water supply. The Arizona Department of Water Resources advised the company that it interprets its regulations to require Del Webb to demonstrate that water leased under the agreement with the Community will be available for a period of 100 years from the date each certificate issued. Under ADWR's interpretation, if Del Webb applies for a certificate of assured water supply on December 6, 1999, it must show that water will be available under the lease agreement until December 6, 2099. However, because Del Webb exercised its option in 1996, the lease agreement between Del Webb and the Community will expire on December 6, 2096, and will not meet the State's test of continuing legal and physical availability of water supply. Moreover, the Community does not have statutory authority to grant leases with terms in excess of 100 years. 
   To resolve this unanticipated conflict, the affected parties have agreed that what is required is a simple modification to the Ak-Chin Water Rights Settlement Act of 1984 to allow the extension of leasing authority to include options to lease and renew or extend existing leases. This change will allow the Ak-Chin Indian Community to extend or renew the existing lease to Del Webb for a cumulative term that would expire more than 100 years from today. 
   Mr. President, this legislation will make a technical change to the Ak-Chin Water Rights Settlement Act in order for the Ak-Chin/Del Webb agreement to be in compliance with State law. All parties and interests directly impacted by this lease agreement are  supportive of this amendment. Therefore, it is our hope that we can move this legislation quickly. 
   I ask to include a complete text of the legislation in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991110</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today has been designated National Trade Education Day. We should use this opportunity to demonstrate how the United States' belief in free trade and open markets have fostered American  prosperity. This issue is especially timely, because the United States will be hosting a Ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Seattle later on this month. Public support of these WTO negotiations is necessary to ensure continued economic growth in the 21st Century. 
   The United States' economy is currently in a period of historic economic growth, low inflation, and low unemployment. America's open market plays a vital role in this achievement. Growth in the volume of American exports in goods and services accounted for more than 40% of overall U.S. economic growth in 1997. Today, exports represent 12% of the U.S. Gross Domestic Product. Export sales are now responsible for over 41% of the production of American semiconductors, 42% of aircraft, 43% of computers, and 68% of power turbines. Recent stories about the trade deficit also show promise. The resurgence of the economies of our Asian, Latin American, and European trading partners created an increase in American exports of $2.9 billion totaling $82 billion in August. The trade deficit dropped $800 million last month to $24.1 billion. 
   The recent economic news gives credence to the saying that ``A rising tide lifts all boats.'' American exports help everyone from corporate CEOs to the average American worker. In 1997, over 11,500,000 jobs depended on American exports. In addition, export-supported jobs pay 13% more than the average domestic wage. High technology industry jobs that are directly supported by exports have averaged hourly earnings 34% higher than the national average. The continued bipartisan free trade policy has benefitted the American people. 
   It is important that the United States remain a leader in promoting policies of open markets worldwide. While our trade deficit has stabilized, we should remove remaining foreign barriers to American goods to reduce this deficit. American farmers, manufacturers and workers are hurt, when foreign countries use high tariffs, quotas, and questionable legal and safety procedures to lock American goods out of their markets. The President should make it a top priority to remove these barriers, and the Congress must give him the authority to achieve this objective. 
   The World Trade Organization (WTO) can play an important role in pursuing American trade objectives. All members of the WTO have to make commitments to reduce barriers to goods and services, and protect intellectual property rights. The WTO has an established procedure to ensure that countries meet their obligations. The United States should ensure that our trading partners meet their commitments. When our trading partners do not meet their obligations, such as the European Union has done concerning American agricultural goods, then we should use the WTO to apply as much pressure as possible to bring these countries into compliance. The upcoming Seattle negotiations offer us a great opportunity to use the WTO to reduce more foreign barriers to American goods, agricultural products, and services. We should also ensure the growth of our high technology exports by making permanent the international moratorium on customs duties relating to electronic commerce. 
   It is also important that we realize that international trade meets many of our national security interests. As countries trade with the United States and each other, they learn the benefits of peace and stability to economic growth. These countries see the benefits of pursuing policies that support stability, which is a major American national security objective. 
   Last week, the Senate sent a strong message that the United States is committed to the principles of free trade by passing major trade legislation. However, the President and Congress must work together to pass another major piece of trade legislation to ensure American prosperity in the 21st Century. It is imperative that the President make a serious effort to work with the Congress to pass ``fast track'' legislation. As the next round of the WTO negotiations develop, it is important that American negotiators have the leverage to secure our trade policy objectives. In addition, ``fast track'' authority lets our trading partners know that any agreement they negotiate with the United States will not be subject to exemptions and gross re-writings by the special interests in Washington. When the negotiations concerning the WTO, the Free Trade Area of the Americas, and other ongoing trade talks come to fruition, the President will need to have ``fast track'' authority to ensure that the agreements are implemented. My hope is that we can pass ``fast track'' legislation soon in order to establish the framework for another century of American economic growth. 
   In conclusion, I hope that we can use National Trade Education Day to gain public support for the continued pursuit of policies based on the principles of free trade. Bipartisan American trade policies, based on the belief in open markets free of regulations and tariffs, have played a major role in causing the current American prosperity. The United States should continue to pursue free trade policies that will remove barriers to American exports. I urge my colleagues to establish the foundation for future prosperity by passing ``fast-track'' legislation during this Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the Senate passed the conference agreement for the Interior appropriations bill on October 21, 1999. Although this conference report was approved by unanimous consent, I wanted to express my objections to the amount of excessive pork-barrel spending and extraneous legislative riders included in this final agreement. 
   In late September, the Senate passed an Interior bill that included $217 million in wasteful and unnecessary spending. This new conference agreement has taken pork-barrel spending to higher proportions by adding an additional $140 million in earmarks that either were not included in the Senate or House bill, or increased funding levels for certain projects at levels far above the requested amounts. 
   I am constantly amazed by tactics used by my colleagues to attach earmarks for parochial projects that have not been authorized or that circumvent a fair and merit-review process. The conferees have even included report language that directs federal agencies to fund targeted earmarks included in the conference report prior to distributing general allocated funds to the rest of the country. 
   In my review of the final conference report, I have identified numerous earmarks and riders that are included in a list of objectionable provisions that is available on my Senate webpage. I remind my colleagues that I do not object to these projects based on their merit nor do I intend to belittle the importance of specific projects to local communities. My objections are based on issues of fairness and following established procedures to consider budgetary items as well as a undergoing a separate legislative process for policy and statutory changes to our federal laws. Unfortunately, the conferees have been able to side-step our established budget and legislative rules by utilizing deceptive wording and budget gimmickry. 
   For example, this conference report includes an extra $22 million in designated ``emergency'' funding for certain areas in the State of Alaska. This funding was not considered in either the Senate or House bills, but added during last-minute negotiations. Again, I certainly understand economic hardships facing rural Alaskans, but why is funding economic projects such as building a regional shipyard, a larger fishing dock, as well as converting a pulp mill to a Coca Cola bottling plant, of higher priority than addressing important land and resources management issues that are intended to be paid for through the Interior appropriations bill? This added ``emergency'' spending, despite that fact that it will purportedly not count against budget cap restrictions, will still be paid for by the taxpayers. 
   Also added in this conference report is an entirely new title that includes legislation, the ``Mississippi National Forest Improvement Act of 1999,'' which had not previously considered in the previous Senate or House bills. Furthermore, emergency funding of $68 million is provided for the ``United Mine Workers of America'' benefit fund, also not previously included in either the Senate or House versions of the Interior appropriations bills. 
   The conferees have targeted funding for projects that provide little detail as to their overall national priority or merit. For example, $300,000 that was originally dedicated for a Forest Service regional office is instead directed to be earmarked for heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems at the Forest Products Labs in Wisconsin. Language is included to provide for specific acquisition of a high band radio system for the Monongahela National Forest in West Virginia. While these maintenance improvements may very well be necessary, is this the type of projects that deserve funding above other important land, forest and wildlife priorities? 
   Much of this wasteful spending could be directed toward other priorities and programs that allow states and local communities to prioritize their own needs at the local level, such as the State-side program of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. I, along with several of my colleagues, have supported prioritizing the State-side program of the Land and Water Conservation Fund as a program that provides federal resources for projects that are considered fairly and competitively. The conferees agreed to provide $20 million to the State-side program for the first time in many years, but this level is less than the $30 million approved by the Senate and far below what is necessary to address locally identified needs. Unfortunately, the State-side program, and many other programs that fund projects based on merit and national priority, are penalized due to other low-priority and special interest spending as part of this conference report. 
   Mr. President, each year the conferees utilize the appropriations process to tack on legislative riders that either were not considered through a legislative process or added with the intension to delay important policy and regulatory changes. Many environmental and land management laws cannot be updated or reviewed when legislative riders are included that prohibit any action by federal agencies to proceed with a fair and comprehensive review of impacts on our natural resources. A few of the these riders include: 
   A delay in promulgating rules to update oil valuation royalty assessments for oil drilled on federal lands; 
   A two-year exemption for certain mining companies who utilize public lands for purposes of storing mine waste; 
   A year-long delay for surface management regulations governing hardrock mining; and, 
   A continuing moratorium on Indian tribal P.L. 93-638 Indian Self-Determination Contracts that allow direct management and funding for tribally operated programs. 
   I support an open and fair review of our laws that govern public lands and resources, but we cannot fully evaluate the fairness and appropriateness of proposed changes when legislative riders such as these put a halt to our congressional review. 
   Mr. President, there is no doubt that important land, forest and Native American programs will continue to be supported through this annual funding bill. Unfortunately, many communities across this country will not receive the critical resources they need because of the continuing and unfair practice of pork-barrel spending. This year, our American taxpayers will pay the tab for $357 million in parochial and low-priority spending.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991103</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am, unfortunately, unable to be present for this vote, but would like to express my support for the final passage of the amended version of H.R. 434, the African Growth and Opportunity Act. This legislation includes a modified version of the African Growth and Opportunity Act, the United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement Act, and reauthorization of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) and Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs. 
   This legislation will end up helping more than 1 billion people begin to enjoy the benefits of democracy and the free market system. Unfortunately when most Americans think of recent politics in Sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean, they only think of dictatorships, civil wars, and people crushed in the grip of poverty. It is a compelling portrait and shows the necessity of this legislation. 
   However, there is hope in the nightly news reports. Both in the Caribbean and in Africa, democracy and economic development are emerging from the shambles of the past. According to a 1998 global survey by Freedom House, 30 countries in Africa are now politically free or partially free. In addition, these countries are beginning to pursue policies of economic development that will help their citizens rise above the debilitating poverty of the past. In 1998, while the Asian economic crisis pummelled other countries, Africa's economies actually grew by an average rate of 3.1 percent. 
   Democracy and market economics also are established in the Caribbean. The civil wars in El Salvador, Nicaragua, and Guatemala have ended. Unfortunately, many of these countries are still suffering from the effects of Hurricanes Mitch and Georges, and need these trade benefits to rebuild their economies. 
   This year's elections in Nigeria and South Africa, and the upcoming election in Guatemala, exemplify the democratic developments in Africa and the Caribbean. As the bulwark of freedom and liberty, the United States  must do all that it can to ensure that democracy and market economics continue to spread and grow. This legislation is crafted to aid these transformations. 
   The African Growth and Opportunity Act establishes a special GSP program to give duty and quota-free treatment to selected African textiles and goods, and enhances cooperation between the United States and Sub-Saharan Africa. It is my hope that the President will use the provisions of this legislation to seriously pursue a free trade agreement with the leaders of Sub-Saharan African countries. The United States-Caribbean Basin Trade Enhancement Act grants 
   selected exports from Caribbean nations the duty- and quota-free treatment that has benefitted Mexico in the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
   Finally, the reauthorization of the GSP program helps many other developing countries benefit from preferential trade treatment. These GSP provisions will help developing countries become members of the global community and prosper in the growing world marketplace. Also, this legislation will reinforce the core American values of freedom and equal opportunity that are a cornerstone of our great country. This legislation is based on the commonsense principle that if you give a nation a handout, you feed it for a day, but if you teach its people to grow and trade, you assist them in becoming independent and self-reliant. 
   This legislation also helps U.S. workers and companies. U.S. exports to the Caribbean nations exceeded $19 billion last year, and produced a $2 billion trade surplus. This trade has created 400,000 American jobs. In 1998, the United States exported $6.5 billion in goods to Sub-Saharan Africa. This trade supported over 100,000 American jobs. However, the United States only has a 7% share in the African market, while Europe has a 40% share. More U.S. trade and investment in both the Caribbean and Sub-Saharan Africa will increase U.S. market share and create more American jobs. 
   While I support this legislation, I believe that it can be improved during the conference with our colleagues from the House side. The House-passed version of the African Growth and Opportunity Act includes programs under the auspices of the Export-Import Bank and Overseas Private Investment Corporation that will give American companies incentives to invest in Africa. Also, I am concerned that the Congressional Budget Office estimates that ``almost no apparel imports would qualify for special treatment'' under the textile provisions of the Finance Committee amendment. The House-passed version of the bill removes quotas and duties on all African textile imports, and will be of much greater benefit to the African nations as well as to the U.S. It is my hope that the conferees will adopt these provisions in the House-passed version of the African Growth and Opportunity Act. These measures will ensure true economic development and increased U.S. market access in Africa. 
   In addition, I have some concerns about the provision of the bill referring to the excise tax collected on rum. This provision increases by $3.00 the amount of the excise tax on rum that is transferred to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands retroactively from June 30, 1999, to October 1, 1999. The bill earmarks $0.50 of this tax for the Puerto Rico Conservation Trust Fund. I am aware of the importance of helping our territories to become economically self-reliant, while also protecting their environments. However, I believe that we should look at more efficient ways to achieve this goal. It makes no sense for the federal government to collect a tax and then turn it all back over to the territories. I hope that this provision will be stricken from this legislation, and that we can more thoroughly examine how to help our territories achieve economic growth without unnecessary federal bureaucracy and taxation. 
   I am also concerned about certain other provisions that have found their way into this legislation. This legislation includes a provision to extend TAA benefits to farmers and fishermen. I know that the collapse of foreign markets abroad has hurt American farmers and believe that this issue should be given more consideration. I am also concerned by provisions included for Oregon power plant workers to apply for TAA benefits after their eligibility has expired, provisions to allow a company with operations in Connecticut and Missouri to obtain a refund on duties it paid on imports of nuclear fuel assemblies, and $2 million earmark for a two-year study on how American Land Grant Colleges and not-for-profit international organizations can improve the flow of American farming techniques and practices for African farmers. These measures should be examined in the usual authorization process to ensure that it is considered on merit and not special interests. It should not be attached to this legislation when Senators have not had a chance to examine the costs and benefits. 
   In conclusion, I support this historic legislation to ensure the progress of democracy and economic development in Africa, the Caribbean, and other developing countries. By promoting freedom and interdependence, the United States can help millions of people live in a future without repression where any child's potential is limited only by their dreams. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991102</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that I was unable to be here for the vote but I thank the conferees for their hard work on the conference report that provides federal funding for the District of Columbia, the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS), and Education. I am very disappointed that this report includes wasteful, locality-specific, pork-barrel projects, legislative riders, and budget gimmicks such as ``forward funding'' and a 1-percent cut in government spending across-the-board. Therefore, I cannot support this bill. 
   This legislation is intended to provide funding directly benefiting American families and senior citizens while assisting our most important resource, our children. It provides funding to help states and local communities educate our children. It also provides the funds to support our scientists in finding treatments for illness. This report also provides funds for ensuring our nation's most vulnerable--our children, seniors and disabled have access to quality health care. Furthermore, it provides the monetary support for important programs assisting older Americans including Meals on Wheels and senior day care programs. 
   I am pleased that this legislation took an important step towards ensuring that our nation's schools have the flexibility to determine how to meet the unique educational needs of their students instead of Washington bureaucrats mandating a ``one size fits all'' policy. Second, this bill provides a significant increase in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) which is critical in our ongoing battle against disease. 
   These are just some of the important provisions in this conference report. There are many additional items which are as pertinent to our nation's well-being which makes it all the more frustrating that this bill is still laden with earmarks, legislative riders and unjustifiable budget gimmicks. 
   First, this legislation contains $388 million in total pork-barrel spending  ($335 million in earmarks and set-asides for the Departments of Health and Human Services, and Education). Some of the more egregious violations of the appropriate budgetary review process include: 
   $2.5 million for Alaska Works in Fairbanks, Alaska for construction job training; 
   $1.5 million for the University of Missouri-St. Louis for their Regional Center for Education and Work; 
   $104 million for the construction and renovation of specific health care and other facilities including: Brookfield Zoo/Loyola University School of Medicine, University of Montana Institute for Environmental and Health Sciences and Edward Health Services, Naperville, Illinois; and 
   $3,000,000 to continue the Diabetes Lower Extremity Amputation Prevention (LEAP) programs at the University of South Alabama. 
   While these projects may have good reason to be deserving of funding, it is appalling that these funds are specifically earmarked and not subject to the appropriate competitive grant process. I am confident that there are many organizations which need financial assistance and yet, are not fortunate enough to have an advocate in the appropriations process to ensure that their funding is earmarked in this legislation. This is wrong and does a disservice to all Americans who deserve fair access to job training and quality health care. 
   Some of the legislative riders include $3.5 million in this report to implement the Early Detection, Diagnosis, and Interventions for Newborns and Infants with Hearing Loss Act. This legislative initiative was inserted into the Senate and House appropriation bill without hearings or debate on this proposal by either chamber. I applaud the intentions of this measure and share my colleagues' support for helping ensure that all hospitals, not just the current 20%, provide screening in order to produce early diagnosis and intervention for our children to ensure that they have an equal start in life and learning. However, the manner in which it was included in this measure bypasses the appropriate legislative procedure. Instead, this measure should have been given full consideration by the Senate as a free-standing initiative or as an amendment to appropriate legislation. 
   Furthermore, I am also opposed to the use of budget gimmicks in this report. First, the report has opted to use the newly popular budget gimmick of ``forward funding,'' used to postpone spending until the next fiscal year to avoid counting costs in the current fiscal year. What this means is that $10 billion in funding for job training, health research, and education grants to states is pushed into next year--a budgetary sleight of hand that merely delays the inevitable accounting for these tax dollars. What a sham. 
   Finally, now that the surplus has been spent for pork-barrel spending instead of shoring up Social Security and Medicare, paying down the debt, and providing tax relief, the appropriators have opted to include a 1-percent cut in government spending across-the-board to keep Congress from touching Social Security. Why not just cut the pork-barrel spending in the first place to avoid resorting to such gimmicks? 
   Mr. President, because of the egregious amount of pork-barrel spending in this bill, the addition of legislative riders, and the 1-percent across-the-board spending cut, I must oppose its passage. I regret doing so because of the many important and worthy programs included in the conference agreement, but I cannot endorse the continued waste of taxpayer dollars on special interest programs, nor can I acquiesce in bypassing the normal authorizing process for legislative initiatives. If an Omnibus appropriations bill is required in order to complete the appropriations process for fiscal year 2000, I hope that the Congress finds the courage to remove the many earmarks, the budget gimmicks, and the legislative riders contained in this report, the bill, and all others so that we can provide the much needed financial support for job training, education, health care, research and senior programs and avoid a congressional sequester. 
   The full list of the objectionable provisions is on my Senate website. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991102</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on October 20, 1999, the Senate passed the conference report for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies appropriations bill for fiscal year 2000. I thank the conferees for their hard work in putting forth this legislation which provides federal funding for fighting crime, enhancing drug enforcement, and responding to threats of terrorism. This bill also addresses the shortcomings of the immigration process, funds the operation of the judicial system, facilitates commerce throughout the United States, and fulfills the needs of the State Department and various other agencies. 
   For many years, I have tried to cut wasteful and unnecessary spending from the annual appropriations bills--with only limited success, I must admit. Nonetheless, I will continue my fight to curb wasteful pork-barrel spending, and I regret that I must again come forward this year to object to the millions of unrequested, low-priority, wasteful spending in this conference report. This legislation includes $535 million in pork-barrel spending. This is an unacceptable amount of money to spend on low-priority, unrequested, wasteful projects. Congress must curb its appetite for such unbridled spending. 
   Pork-barrel spending today not only robs well-deserving programs of much needed funds, it also jeopardizes social security reform, potential tax cuts, and our fiscal well-being into the next century. 
   The multitude of earmarks buried in this proposal will further burden the American taxpayers. While the amounts associated with each individual earmark may not seem extravagant, taken together, they represent a serious diversion of taxpayers' hard-earned dollars to low priority programs at the expense of numerous programs that have undergone the appropriate merit-based selection process. Congress and the American public must be made aware of the magnitude of wasteful spending endorsed by this body. 
   For the Department of Commerce, there is $400,000 for swordfish research. For the Department of Justice, there is $1 million for the Nevada National Judicial College. For the Department of State, there is $12.5 million for the East-West Center in Hawaii, and for the Small Business Administration, there is $200,000 for Rural Enterprises, Inc., in Durant, Oklahoma. I have compiled a list on my Senate website of these examples and other numerous add-ons and earmarks in the report. 
   Mr. President, we must continue to work to cut unnecessary and wasteful spending so we can begin to pay down our debt and save billions in interest payments. We have an obligation to ensure that Congress spends taxpayers' hard-earned dollars prudently to protect our balanced budget and to protect the projected budget surpluses. The American public cannot understand why we continue to earmark these huge amounts of money to locality specific special interests at a time when we are trying to cut the cost of government and return more dollars to the people. 
   Mr. President, it is a sad commentary on the state of politics today that the Congress cannot curb its appetite to earmark funds for programs that are obviously wasteful, unnecessary, or unfair. Unfortunately, however, Members of Congress have demonstrated time and again their willingness to fund programs that serve their narrowly tailored interest at the expense of the national interest.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991028</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. 
   Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation with my colleague, Senator SNOWE, to address the growing problem of HMOs denying insurance coverage for reconstructive surgery for children suffering from physical defects and deformities. This legislation would require medical plans to cover the medical procedures to reconstruct a child's appearance if they are born with abnormal structures of the body, including a cleft lip or palate. 
   Today, approximately seven percent of American children are born with pediatric deformities and congenital defects such as cleft lip, cleft palate, missing limbs including ears, and other facial deformities. Unfortunately, it has become commonplace for insurance companies to label reconstructive procedures to correct these deformities as cosmetic surgery and deny coverage to help these children eradicate or reduce deformities and acquire a normal appearance. 
   A recent survey of the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons indicated that over half the plastic surgeons questioned have had a pediatric patient in the last two years who has been denied, or experienced tremendous difficulty in obtaining, insurance coverage for reconstructive surgery. 
   It is disgraceful that many insurance companies claim that medical services to restore to a child some semblance of a normal appearance are superfluous and merely for vanity or cosmetic purposes. My colleagues may be wondering how such a ludicrous and cruel argument can be made when these procedures are clearly reconstructive in nature. Helping a child born without ears or with a cleft so severe it extends to her hairline is not cosmetic surgery. 
   The medical and developmental complications arise from these conditions are tremendous. Speech impediments, hearing difficulties and dental problems are a few of the physical side effects resulting from a child's physical deformity. In addition, the effect of a child's deformities on their personal development, confidence, and self-esteem and their future aspirations and achievements, is often very far reaching. 
   A healthy self image is vitally important to develop self esteem and confidence. How people see themselves, and how others see them, helps determine how a person feels about himself and whether he has the strength to cope with difficult challenges, including the taunting of peers and disengagement from school activities. As parents, we want our children to be armed with a healthy self esteem and confidence. The best way to guarantee that happens is to help them develop a strong and healthy self image. 
   At the same time, I recognize that we live in a society which places a high value on physical beauty and often unfairly uses it to measure a person's worth, ability or potential in society. It is unrealistic not to recognize the unfair obstacles facing children born with deformities if they are not provided access to medical services to help them attain a more normal physical appearance. 
   Some of my colleagues may know that my daughter, Bridget, whom Cindy and I adopted from Mother Theresa's orphanage in Bangladesh, was born with a severe cleft. We are fortunate to have had the means and opportunities to provide the expert medical care necessary to help Bridget physically and emotionally. However, we, too, encountered numerous obstacles and denials by our insurance providers who did not believe that Bridget's medical treatment was necessary. Fortunately, Cindy and I were able to afford the reconstructive services Bridget needed, despite denials by our health plan. Most hard-working American families are not so fortunate. That is why I am introducing this important bill to assist all American children. 
   This is not a new mandate that could cause health care premiums to escalate. What I am proposing simply prohibits plans from frivolously ruling that substantial, medically needed reconstructive surgeon for children to obtain a relatively normal appearance is cosmetic and refusing to pay for the procedures. This bill ensures that all children are afforded an opportunity to lead a more normal life and realize their full potential. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991027</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President I am please to introduce a bill intended to preserve the United States' world leadership position in technology into the coming century. This legislation is intended to assure that our scientific, mathematics, engineering and technology resources are surpassed by no one. It is intended to ensure that our most precious national resources, our people, receive the best education and training through our best national product, innovation. We must allow our most creative forces to interact to achieve improved math and science education in our schools. We must assure more highly trained college graduates in science, math, engineering and technology. And we must encourage the retooling of our country's experienced minds to address the problems and the solutions of tomorrow. 
   Specifically, this legislation uses a portion of each H-1B visa fee to provide grants for innovative programs which will improve the math, science, engineering and technology skills of Americans so that they can fill the estimated average of 137,800 new positions expected to be created in these fields each year from now through 2006. During the interim, while the American pipeline of talent is filling, the bill lifts the caps on H-1B visas to allow our American companies to continue to grow and prosper. 
   This legislation is necessary and beneficial to our nation. Let me explain in some detail why. 
   First, although this country can be proud of having some of the most highly regarded colleges and universities in the world, our elementary and secondary education system is not sufficiently emphasizing science and math in the curriculum. Our students are falling behind in these areas. The results of the 1998 Third International Math and Science Study (TIMSS) are instructive. In math, our 4th graders ranked 12th out of 26 countries. Not a stellar performance. But even more discouraging, by 12th grade, the U.S. math rank was 19th out of 21 countries. As a result, not enough American college students are majoring in the sciences, including computer science, mathematics and engineering to fill the escalating need for highly trained professionals. 
   According to information compiled by the American Electronics Association, at the same time that the number of jobs in these fields has increased by 20%, the number of college graduates with degrees in engineering, engineering technology, computer science, mathematics, business information systems, and physics has declined by 5%. 
   To fill the jobs available, American companies are finding it increasingly necessary to hire foreign professionals. When they recruit on university campuses in the United States, 32% of the Masters degree and 45% of the doctoral degree candidates are foreign, not American, students. Even though they have been educated here, these foreign students cannot remain here to work without a visa. 
   Even with these graduates available, there are more jobs to be filled than qualified candidates. When our companies cannot hire qualified people to work for them, they cannot function--they cannot compete. Most of these companies have concluded long ago that they need to retain the qualified people that they do hire. They understand that one way to retain them is to provide training to continually update and upgrade their skills. There are many examples of these kinds of programs. 
   In addition, there are older American workers with advanced technical skills that are outdated, or whose experience is in industries which are not in a growth mode. Companies are finding ways to assist some of these professional to retool for the current and future needs of business. An example of retraining experienced workers is a program at San Diego State University. That institution's Defense Conversion Center has focused on retraining displaced defense industry professional, including military personnel and aerospace engineers. 
   Let me read from their project proposal description dated 9/21/99.  
   The expansion of the H-1B visa program is a limited and temporary fix to a critical national problem. Unless we find creative ways to meet our workforce needs internally, our ability to produce cutting-edge products will erode. Indeed, some experts predict that our position as the world's leader in innovation will slip from first place to sixth early in the next century. The risk goes beyond losing our competitive edge in the global marketplace; without a strong technology base, our national defense system will be jeopardized.  
   The proposal goes on to describe the university's program:  
   In the early 1990's, the defense industry in San Diego virtually disintegrated, resulting in the loss of over 42,000 jobs. Established with a grant from the Department of Defense, the SDSU Defense Conversion Center developed several certificate programs designed to fast-track displaced defense industry workers back into the marketplace. To date, over 1100 individuals have enrolled in the Center, and 80% of those who participated in the program found or retained employment in such high-tech fields as radio-frequency design, software engineering, concurrent design and manufacturing, and multi-media design.  
   Many companies are also finding that it is not enough to focus on only their short term hiring needs. There are numerous examples of companies partnering with their local schools to provide innovative changes in curriculum and skill sets. 
   For example, Hewlett-Packard has joined forces with Colorado State University to assist minority students beginning their studies at CSU. The assistance includes 10-week internships at H-P, during which CSU provides instructors to H-P to teach calculus. The internships provide a bridge from the academic to the real world, demonstrating the application of math and science skills. They also provide the freshmen with valuable experience that can lead to permanent jobs at H-P. 
   Eastman Chemical Company in Tennessee offers another example. Working with its local school system, the company focused on two objectives: to help prepare and motivate all students to develop competency in math and science, and to create a school system of such excellence that college graduates would be drawn there as a great place to raise children. The result was several programs, including an ``Educator on Loan'' program where on a rotating basis, teachers could work at the company's manufacturing plant to under the skills required. 
   These private/public partnerships are an excellent start. But these efforts are not sufficient to solve the problems we have with maintaining our country's ability to compete and lead the world in the 21st century. We must encourage more innovation, more achievement to fill the pipeline so that our children will be able to prosper in the technological revolution underway. 
   This legislation encourages innovation. It provides financial assistance for ideas which will work. The proposed legislation is broad enough to cover any idea which can be demonstrated to produce results. Some of the programs  I think should be considered would be to provide scholarships to students who possess the requisite talent and are willing to become certified as math and science teachers, and who will agree to teach for a number of years. Scholarships for students who will major in math, science, engineering or technology fields makes sense. But we should not limit our selves to these stock type approaches. There will be many other new and creative ideas and we should welcome them and reward them, as long as they produce the outcome we want. We want to improve and increase the American talent pool. 
   In the meantime, I think it is important not to force our companies to develop off-shore bases in order to hire the foreign professional they need. The history of numeric caps on H-1B visas is one of best guess, rather than of calculated need. It is difficult to anticipate the total need, but simply inserting a number because it is politically agreeable isn't the right answer. During the last session we adopted legislation produced through the fine efforts of Senator ABRAHAM and others who worked tirelessly in addressing a broad array of problems and issues. 
   The result is that our law now requires those who are dependent on H-1B worker to attest, to give their oath, that they have tried to hire an American to fill the position unsuccessfully before applying for a foreign worker visa. These requirements are stringent. They protect American workers against companies which might otherwise ignore qualified applicants in order to bring in a foreign worker. The law protects against layoffs followed by foreign hiring. 
   With this law in place and with diligent enforcement of its requirements, there is no reason to also pick an arbitrary number as a cap for H-1B visas. We can let the marketplace prevail. We can focus on improving our own resources and our own children's education so that in the future we will have more highly skilled professionals to fill these positions. When our supply meets the demand we will have achieved the goals of improving our education curriculum and our ability to remain leaders in the 21st century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, we are not here today to debate the legality of abortion. We are here to discuss ending partial-birth abortion--a particularly gruesome procedure that would be outlawed today but for the President's veto last year of a national ban. 
   Banning partial-birth abortion goes far beyond traditional pro-life or prochoice views. No matter what your personal opinion regarding the legalization of abortion, we should all be appalled and outraged by the practices of partial-birth abortions. This procedure is inhumane and extremely brutal entailing the partial delivery of a healthy baby who is then killed by having its vibrant brain stabbed and suctioned out of the skull. 
   This is simply barbaric. 
   Some would argue that abortion, including partial-birth abortion, is a matter of choice--a woman's choice. Respectfully, I must disagree. 
   What about the choice of the unborn baby? Why does a defenseless, innocent child not have a choice in their own destiny? 
   Some may answer that the unborn baby is merely a fetus and is not a baby until he or she leaves the mother's womb. Again, I disagree, particularly, in the case of infants who are killed by partial-birth abortions. 
   Most partial-birth abortions occur on babies who are between 20 and 24 weeks old. Viability, ``the capacity for meaningful life outside the womb, albeit with artificial aid'' as defined by the United States Supreme Court, is considered by the medical community to begin at 20 weeks for an unborn baby. Most, if not all, of the babies who are aborted by the partial-birth procedure could be delivered and live. Instead, they are partially delivered and then murdered. These children are never given a choice or a chance to live. 
   Today, we have to make a choice. We can choose to protect our nation's most valuable resource--our children. We can choose to give a tomorrow full of endless possibilities to unborn children throughout our nation. We can choose to save thousands from being murdered at the hands of abortionists. 
   Or we can choose to allow this barbaric procedure to continue, permitting doctors to kill more innocent, unborn children. 
   We each have a choice, a choice which unborn children are denied. We must make the right choice when we vote today--the choice to save thousands of unborn children by banning partial birth abortions in this country. 
   Today, I will choose to protect the unborn child. Today, I will once again cast my vote to ban partial birth abortions. 
   I want to reiterate my strong support for this bill and my unequivocal and long-standing opposition to the practice of partial birth abortion. I find it disconcerting that a few people are attempting to dilute my unequivocal support for banning this horrific procedure as well as to cast doubt on my long standing commitment to protecting the life of unborn children merely because of my vote on a procedural motion. 
   Yesterday, I voted against a parliamentary maneuver designed solely to end debate on S. 1593, the campaign finance reform bill. This was an unnecessary move since a unanimous consent agreement had been offered, with no known opposition, which would have allowed the chamber to temporarily lay aside the campaign finance reform bill so that the Senate could consider the partial birth abortion ban legislation. Under that procedure, when the Senate finished its work on the important bill banning partial birth abortions, we could then return to complete the debate on campaign finance reform. Instead, the opponents of  McCain-Feingold forced a vote on a maneuver which returned the bill to the Senate calendar, effectively cutting off the debate, well short of the time promised to consider this important issue. 
   In no way does my vote yesterday and strong support for campaign finance reform reduce my unequivocal, long-standing opposition to abortion, including the practice of partial birth abortion. I am a cosponsor of this legislation, as I was in previous years. I have voted 5 times over the past 5 years to ban this repugnant and unnecessary procedure, including 2 votes to overturn the President's veto of this legislation. When the Senate votes today on S. 1692, I will again vote for the ban. 
   Mr. President, I am pro-life and will continue fighting for measures which protect our nation's unborn children and provide them with an opportunity for life--the greatest gift each of us has. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991020</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I intend to vote against the motion to proceed to S. 1692, legislation to ban partial birth abortions. 
   This is an unnecessary parliamentary maneuver designed solely to displace S. 1593, the campaign finance reform bill, from the floor. A unanimous-consent agreement was offered, with no known opposition, to temporarily lay aside the campaign finance reform bill so that the Senate could consider the partial birth abortion ban legislation. Under that procedure, when the Senate finishes its work on the latter bill, we could then return to complete the debate on campaign finance reform. But if this procedural vote is successful, the McCain-Feingold bill will be returned to the Senate calendar, effectively cutting off the debate, well short of the time promised to consider this important issue. 
   I want to make very clear, my strong support for this bill and my unequivocal and long-standing opposition to the practice of partial birth abortion. I am pro-life and oppose abortion except in the case of rape or incest, or when the life of the mother is in danger. Partial birth abortion is a repugnant procedure and an abomination, which should be outlawed. 
   I am a cosponsor of this legislation, as I was in previous years. I have voted five times over the past 5 years to ban this repugnant and unnecessary procedure, including two votes to overturn the President's veto of this legislation. When the Senate votes on S. 1692, I will again vote for the ban. 
   As I stated yesterday, I will not give up the fight to enact meaningful reform of our campaign finance system. If the McCain-Feingold bill is pulled from the floor today, I will return to the Senate floor with amendments on campaign reform this year, next year, and as long as it takes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object, if I am allowed to speak on the  results of this vote before then, then I will agree to a unanimous-consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, is the motion debatable? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991019</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, first of all, I may be in some disagreement with the distinguished Democratic leader about an upcoming motion to proceed because some feel very strongly about the issue of partial-birth abortion and whether that vote might be interpreted as a vote in favor or against it. 
   Let me assure the distinguished Democratic leader--and I will elaborate on this in a second--we have not been treated fairly in this process by either side. So, therefore, Senator FEINGOLD and I feel no obligation except our obligation to campaign finance reform, and that is to do whatever is necessary, at whatever time, to make sure this issue is voted on, as were the terms of the original unanimous consent agreement that was agreed to by the majority leader. 
   I think it is fair to say that neither I nor the Senator from Wisconsin began this debate with the expectation that we were close to achieving 60 votes for campaign finance reform, although we have to be encouraged by the fact that three new Republican votes were cast in favor of campaign finance reform in this last vote. We did, however, believe that we had a chance to build a supermajority in support of some reform. We hoped that by dropping those provisions from the bill that drew the loudest opposition last year, and by allowing Senators to improve the legislation through an open amendment process, we might begin to approach consensus. 
   It appears we were mistaken. The opponents of comprehensive reform oppose even the most elemental reform. Those opponents abide on both sides of the aisle--if not in equal numbers, then in sufficient numbers--to render any attempt to clean up the system a very difficult challenge, indeed. 
   I suspect the opponents were concerned that were we ever allowed a truly clean vote on a soft money ban, we might come close to 60 votes. I believe that explains the extraordinary efforts from both Democrats and Republicans to prevent that clean vote from occurring. 
   I say to my friends on the other side of the aisle that I have argued with my Republican colleagues in the last two Congresses that reform supporters deserve a decent chance, through an open amendment process, to break a filibuster. I can hardly complain to them now that the other side has apparently decided it could not risk such a process, fearing that we might achieve what Democrats have long argued we should have--reform. 
   The Senator from New Jersey, Senator TORRICELLI, claims that the right wing of my party forced me to change our legislation. That will be news to them. I have noticed no reduction in the intensity of their opposition to a soft money ban now that it no longer is accompanied by restrictions on issue advocacy. All I have noticed is that the Senator from New Jersey has now become as passionately opposed to reform as are the critics of reform in my party. 
   Although I cannot criticize Republican Senators for reneging on a commitment to an open amendment process, I must observe that we were promised 5 full days of debate. That promise has not been honored. Moreover, the leadership decided to deny us even the opportunity to appeal to our colleagues before this vote, a rare and unusual occasion around here. 
   We were not allowed to continue our debate between the vote last night and the votes we have just taken. Whether this was done to treat us unfairly or to respond to the tactics of the minority matters little to me. In the end, we are denied a fair chance to pass our reforms, as we have been denied in the past. And although I am not all that surprised by the tactics employed by both sides, I am, of course, a little discouraged. 
   However, Mr. President, neither Senator FEINGOLD nor I are so discouraged that we intend to abandon our efforts to test Senate support for a ban on single source contributions that total in the hundreds of thousands, even million of dollars. We will persevere. And we believe we are no longer bound by any commitment to refrain from revisiting this issue in the remainder of this session of Congress. I know there is not a lot of time left before adjournment, but if the opportunity exists to force an up or down vote on taking the hundred-thousand-dollar check out of politics, we will do so, Mr. President. 
   Some Senators may wonder why would we persist in these efforts when it is clear that the enemies of reform are numerous, resourceful, and bipartisan. Are we just tilting at windmills? I don't believe so Mr. President. I believe that some day, the American people are going to become so incensed by the amount of money that is now washing around our political system that they will hold Senators accountable for their votes on this issue. Then, I suspect, we will achieve some consensus on reform. Until then, it is our intention to do all we can to make sure the public has a clear record of support or opposition to reform upon which to judge us. Yesterday's cynical vote for a ban on soft money indicates to me just how fearful of a straight, up or down vote the opponents are. 
   Mr. President, I want to respond again to the criticism that my stated belief that our campaign finance system is corrupting is untrue and demeaning to Senators. Let me read a few lines from the 1996 Republican Party platform.  
   Congress had been an institution steeped in corruption and contemptuous of reform. 
   Scandals in government are not limited to possible criminal violations. The public trust is violated when taxpayers' money is treated as a slush fund for special interest groups who oppose urgently needed reforms. 
   It is time to restore honor and integrity to government.  
   I repeat again. I am quoting from the Republican Party platform of 1996. 
   Mr. President, I'm not saying anything more than what is, after all, the official position of the Republican Party. Or is it my Republican colleagues' view that only Democratic-controlled congresses are ``Steeped in corruption and contemptuous of reform''? 
   As I said last week, Mr. President, something doesn't have to be illegal to be corrupting. Webster's defines corruption as an ``impairment of our integrity.'' I am not accusing any Member of violating Federal bribery Statutes. But we are all tainted by a system that the public believes--rightly--results in greater representation to monied interests than to average citizens. No, Mr. President, there is no law to prevent the exploitation of a soft money loophole to get around Federal campaign contribution limits. There is no law, but there ought to be. That's why we're here. 
   Does anyone really believe that our current system has not impaired Congress' integrity or the President's for that matter? When special interests give huge amounts of cash to us, and then receive tax breaks and appropriations at twice or five times or ten  times the value of their soft money donations. What is it these interests expect for their generosity? Good government? No, they expect a financial return to their stockholders, and they get it, often at the expense of average Americans. Would they keep giving us millions of dollars if they weren't getting that return? Of course not. 
   Cannot we all agree to this very simple, very obvious truth: that campaign contributions from a single source that run to the hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars are not healthy to a democracy? Is that not evident to every single one of us? A child could see it, Mr. President. 
   The Senator from Kentucky said the other day that there is no evidence, no polling data, no indication at all that the people's estrangement from Congress would be repaired by campaign finance reform. He is correct, there is no such evidence. 
   But I have a hunch, Mr. President, that should the public see that we no longer lavish attention on major donors, should they see that their concerns are afforded just as much attention as the concerns of special interests, should they see some evidence that their elected representatives place a higher value on the national interest than we do on our own re-elections, should they no longer see tax bills, appropriations bills, deregulation bills that are front-loaded with breaks for the people who write hundred-thousand-dollar checks to us while tax relief or urgent assistance or real competition, or anything that could immediately benefit the average American is delayed until later years, if ever, should they see that, Mr. President, I have a hunch, just a hunch, that the people we serve might begin to think a little better of us. 
   Mr. President, no matter what parliamentary tactics are used to prevent reform, no matter how fierce the opposition, no matter how personal, no matter how cynical this debate remains, the Senator from Wisconsin and I will persevere. We will not give up. We will not give up in the Senate. And we will take our case to the people, and eventually, eventually, we will prevail. 
   I ask my colleagues, why must we appear to be forced into doing the right thing? Why can't we take the initiative, and show the people that it matters to us what they think of us? 
   Mr. President, despite our protestations to the contrary, the American people believe we are corrupted by these huge donations. And their contempt for us--even were it not deserved--is itself a stain upon our honor. Don't allow this corrupt--and I use that term advisedly--this corrupt system to endure one day longer than it must. We have it in our power to end it. We must take the chance. Our reputations and the reputations of the institution in which we are privileged to serve depend on it. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak after Senator LEVIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Maybe I can sort it out. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator LEVIN, then Senator VOINOVICH, then Senator WELLSTONE, and then Senator MCCAIN be recognized. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object to that because we are going back and forth from one side to the other. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I agree. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Could I hear the unanimous consent, just to be sure. Parliamentary inquiry. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Was he aware on Friday Senator KERREY of Nebraska came to the floor and said:  
   I had the experience of going inside the beast in 1996, 1997, and 1998, when I was chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. I don't want to raise a sore subject for the Senator from Maine. It changed my attitude in two big ways. One, the apparent corruption that exists. People believe there is corruption. If they believe it, it happens. We all understand that. If the perception is it is A, it is A, even though it may not be. And the people believe the system is corrupt.  
   The Senator is aware of the statement of the Senator from Nebraska yesterday, which I think is a very precise and informed opinion? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask for the regular order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I move to table amendment No. 2299 and ask consent the vote occur at 5:45. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. It was agreeable to the leadership. I was told they wanted a vote at 5:45, but I would be willing to set the time for that vote at any time. I am told by staff, 5:45 is the time for the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I will be glad to explain to the Senator from Kentucky. It is basically the soft money amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, in the interest of time, I would be glad to move to table the Reid amendment, which does not require unanimous consent, and ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the tabling motion occur at 5:45. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I want my colleagues to know this is a defining vote of this debate. This is a defining vote because it all has to do with soft money. This is the fundamental proposition that the Senator from Wisconsin and I are propounding. 
   There has been parliamentary maneuvering. There has been substitutes. There has been a filling up of the tree. There have been a lot of things that have been going on which have sort of not surprised me but disappointed me. 
   Friday, on the other side, for reasons that are still not clear to me, the Senator from Nevada, and others, chose not to allow the amending process to go forward. On this side, we have had some delays, which I would argue were not particularly helpful to the process. 
   So this tabling motion of the Reid amendment is basically a defining vote on whether or not we want to ban soft money. I intend to vote not to table the Reid amendment. I would hope that my colleagues would vote not to table the Reid amendment. Then we will have the Senate on record as to whether we are for or against soft money in American political campaigns. 
   On Friday, Senator KERREY of Nebraska--it is funny; we were talking about this today at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial luncheon today that Senator HAGEL and I attended, that there is kind of an interesting relationship that exists between those of us who had the privilege of serving in that conflict. 
   One of the traits I find true with Senator HAGEL, Senator CLELAND, Senator ROBB, and Senators KERREY and KERRY, is that there is a certain degree of honesty and straightforwardness which I find extremely attractive. 
   Senator KERREY, on Friday, who is also the former chairman of the Senatorial Campaign Committee, said:  
   There will be all kinds of amendments offered to change the bill, some of which I support strongly. It seems to me our only chance of getting this legislation passed is to stick as closely as possible to the bill we currently have in front of us.  
   He went on to say, in an exchange with the Senator from Wisconsin:  
   I wonder if the Senator from Wisconsin will tell me if what I am saying is true. I like Shays-Meehan. I like the bill. The junior Senator from Nebraska, Mr. HAGEL, has an amendment I like as well.  
   He goes on to talk about:  
   ..... It makes it much more likely we will fail to break a filibuster and, as a consequence of that failure, fail to enact legislation, and as a consequence of that, we will never go to conference and never change the law.  
   Then Senator KERREY of Nebraska went on to say:  
   ..... The Senator is very kind to say I have always been a supporter. Actually, I have not always been a supporter ..... Speaking of campaign finance reform.  
   He says:  
   When I came to the Senate in 1989, this was not a very important issue. Indeed, at one point, I joined the Senator from Kentucky, Mr. MCCONNELL, to defeat campaign finance reform. 
   Then I had the experience of going inside the beast in 1996, 1997, and 1998 when I was Chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee--I do not want to raise a sore subject for the Senator from Maine. It changed my attitude in two big ways: One, the apparent corruption that exists. People believe there is corruption. If they believe it, it happens. We all understand that. If the perception is it is A, it is A, even though we know it may not be, and the people believe the system is corrupt. 
   Equally important to me, I discovered in 1996, 1997, and 1998 that there are men and women who would love to serve. They say: I can't be competitive; I can't possibly raise the money necessary to go on television; Oh, and by the way, my reputation could get damaged as a consequence of what could be said on television against me.  
   He went on to say:   
   I am persuaded this law needs to be changed for the good of the Republic, for the good of democracy. I hope Members, such as myself, who are enthusiastic about changing that law will take the advice of the Senator from Wisconsin and the Senator from Arizona to heart because we may have to vote against things we prefer in order to make certain we get something that not only we want but the Nation desperately needs.  
   Madam President, it is impossible for me to elaborate on that kind of comment from my esteemed colleague and American hero, BOB KERREY of Nebraska. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would be glad to yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would like to respond to my friend. 
   I am hearing that the distinguished majority leader may try to remove the bill from the consideration on the floor of the Senate tomorrow. We know that it is cluttered with various amendments, some of them very important. The Senator from Minnesota spoke very eloquently in favor of his amendment, which I am sure has some merit. 
   But the crux and heart of this matter is soft money. We all know that. I worry if we do not get this vote, that we could possibly reach a situation where the Senate is gridlocked; and eventually, over time, obviously, we would not even have recorded votes on this important and crucial issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It is my understanding the Senate has never voted up or down on that specific issue, at least since 1907, when, thanks be to one of the greatest Republicans and greatest Presidents in history, Theodore Roosevelt, who alleged there was corruption at that time--and I will include many of his remarks in the RECORD--because of the influence of major corporations and robber barons and special interests on the American political process, I believe the Senate did vote to ban soft money. And I believe that statute is still on the books. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Of course. Of course. I hope that would move the process forward, once we are on record. And perhaps that might increase our chances of reaching 60 votes, I would say to my friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I would be glad to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I say to my friend, first of all, I never argued that games were being played. I would not make that allegation. I believe the Senator from Kentucky and I had a colloquy on Friday where it was clear that the situation was such that even if an amendment were considered on Friday and adopted, it would have fallen with a vote on the underlying legislation that was pending, which I think correctly, in the view of the Senator from Kentucky, made further amendments and debate meaningless. I see the Senator from Kentucky is on the floor. I think that was his comment. If he disagrees, I will be glad to yield for a question from him in that respect. On Friday, I was disappointed, and I think the Senator from Kentucky was, that we didn't move forward with genuine amendments that would have stood or fallen on their own merit. 
   I am glad to yield to the Senator from Kentucky for a question on that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Absolutely. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Absolutely. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I not only acknowledge it, but it is worthy of mention; the Senator from Nevada and I have been close and dear 
   friends for nearly 20 years. One thing I have tried to do during the course of this debate is keep it from in any way personalizing or showing any disrespect to any individual, no matter where they stand on this issue. 
   I thank the Senator from Nevada. 
   Did the Senator from Kentucky want to make a comment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-29-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Kentucky. 
   I agree with the Senator from Nevada; there are many ways to approach the issue of campaign finance reform. I agree with him; there are many laudable aspects of campaign finance reform that deserve serious consideration. 
   One that doesn't seem to surface as much as it should is free television time for candidates. The broadcasters receive $70 billion worth of free digital spectrum. It seems to me there should be some obligation along with one of the great rip-offs in the history of the United States of America. 
   But we really are down to soft money, I say to the Senator from Nevada. We are really down to that. We can build on that. There is no reform that could have any meaning unless it meant, at its fundamental heart, the banning of soft money. We have been through a number of debates about what independent campaigns do. 
   By the way, before I leave the issue, I heard the Senator from Ohio say that banning of soft money does not in any way affect labor unions. Yesterday or the day before, there was a notice in the paper that the labor unions plan on spending $45 million in soft money in the upcoming campaign. I am afraid the Senator from Ohio is misinformed because this banning of soft money does enormous damage to the ability of labor unions to engage in the kind of practices we are trying to eliminate, just as much as it does the other side. 
   I want to make perfectly clear, the reason that I and the Senator from Wisconsin are seeking to table or asking for a vote on a tabling motion is so we can have the Senate on record on the issue of soft money. If the Senate, in its wisdom, decides that we should table the Reid amendment and that we should, therefore, not ban soft money, then obviously this entire exercise is largely futile. I think there are about three Members on the other side who may not be voting who would vote for us, and I would take that into account in this vote because, really, this vote is about the intentions and the will of the Senate. 
   The soft money reports from Common Cause: Soft money, CWA-COPE, $2,593,000; American Federation of State and County Municipal Employees, $2,334,000--these are obviously all Democrats--Service Employees Union, $1.5 million. I hope the Senator from Ohio will take a look at the enormous amount of money that is coming in from labor unions that he somehow 
   believes would not be affected by a ban on soft money. 
   Also, recently information came out that the Democratic Party is raising now as much soft money as the Republican Party, a very interesting turn of events. 
   We have, at most, 48 hours left on this legislation. We have not made a lot of progress. It is time we did. I believe having the Senate on record on soft money is a very defining vote. I talked extensively with Senator FEINGOLD about this before we decided to make this move. I hope my colleagues will vote not to table the Reid amendment, which bans soft money. I hope my colleagues will vote not to table the McCain tabling motion of the Reid amendment. 
   I believe Senator BENNETT is next under the unanimous consent agreement. I believe both Senators HAGEL and WYDEN have been waiting. I don't know what the disposition of that is. 
   Senator REID? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-30-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I think Senator HAGEL was here first. Is that OK? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-31-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I haven't yielded the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-32-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I still have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-33-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I think I have consumed 7 or 8 minutes. I hope the Senator from Utah will recognize that both the Senator from Nebraska and the Senator from Oregon have been here for a long time. I hope he would give them the opportunity to speak before the 5:45 vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-34-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I am glad to make that request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-35-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I amend the unanimous consent agreement. The Senator from Utah would like how many minutes? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-36-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Utah for his courtesy. I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from Utah be recognized for 20 minutes, the Senator from Oregon for 15 minutes, the Senator from Nebraska for 20 minutes, and then the Senator from Wisconsin for 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-37-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Roughly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-38-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-39-19991018</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that I must vote against this conference report. Once again, I have the unpleasant task of speaking before my colleagues about unacceptably high funding levels of parochial projects throughout this bill. In addition, the conferees have included several legislative provisions that were not in either bill, nor were these initiatives considered by either the House or Senate before they were summarily added to this bill. Therefore, despite the fact that the bill contains funding for many purposes which I strongly support, I oppose its passage because of these objectionable provisions. 
   This bill, in total, contains more than $700 million in low-priority, wasteful, and unnecessary spending. This is an unacceptable waste of the taxpayers' hard-earned money, and I will not be a party to Congress' pork-barrel spending habits. 
   I very much regret having to oppose a bill that contains critical funding for programs for our Nation's veterans. 
   I would like to point out that I actively supported adding $3 billion for veterans medical health care in this year's appropriations bill. I cosponsored several amendments introduced in the Senate, including the Wellstone amendment, which would have provided an additional $3 billion above the President's VA budget request. Although the Wellstone amendment failed, the amendment proposed by Senators BYRD and BOND, which I also supported, passed overwhelmingly, increasing the total amount of VA funding to $1.7 billion above the President's request. 
   I commend the conferees for keeping the $1.7 billion for essential health care programs for veterans in the conference report. This represents the largest annual increase since the Department of Veterans Affairs was created. Although I sincerely welcome this increase, I will continue to do all in my power to find additional money in the budget to fund veterans health care at an amount that will guarantee a higher, sustainable level of quality health care for all veterans. 
   It is important to note that the level of earmarks and set-asides in the Veterans Affairs section of this conference report is down from previous years. The total value of specific earmarks in the Veterans Affairs section of the VA-HUD conference report is $31.3 million, about one third of the amount that was inserted in this section of the Senate-  approved VA-HUD appropriations funding measure. 
   Certain provisions in this section, however, illustrate that Congress still does not have its priorities in order. For example, it is disturbing to me and many other Senators who stood on the floor of this body to fight for additional funding for veterans benefits to learn that the conferees have agreed to direct some of the critical dollars from veterans health care to fund wasteful projects like the ``mothballing'' of four historic buildings in Dayton, Ohio. 
   There are other notable examples of unnecessary items included in the conference report. An especially troublesome expense, neither budgeted for nor requested by the Administration for the past eight years, is a provision that directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to continue the eight-year-old demonstration project involving the Clarksburg, West Virginia VAMC and the Ruby Memorial Hospital at West Virginia University. Several years ago, the VA-HUD appropriations bill contained a plus-up of $2 million to the Clarksburg VAMC that ended up on the Administration's line-item veto list--even the Administration concluded that this was truly wasteful. 
   Like the transportation and military construction funding bills, the VA-HUD funding bill also includes many construction project additions to the President's budget request. For example, the VA-HUD appropriations conference report adds $1 million for the advance planning and design of the Lebanon VAMC renovation of patient care units and other enhancements for extended care programs. An additional $500,000 was provided for planning national cemeteries in Atlanta, Georgia; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Miami, Florida; and Sacramento, California. Although all of these areas likely are deserving of veterans cemeteries, I just wonder how many other national cemetery projects in other states were leapfrogged to ensure that these states received the VA's highest priority. This bill directs VA to award a contract for design, architectural, and engineering services in this month for a new National Cemetery in Lawton (Oklahoma City/Fort Sill), Oklahoma and also directs the President's fiscal year 2001 budget to include construction funds for a new National Cemetery in Oklahoma. This is an amazing feat, since this appropriations bill is supposed to provide single-year appropriations, yet is attempting to direct next year's funding, too. 
   The bill also directs the VA to reprogram $11.5 million originally appropriated in fiscal year 1998 to renovate Building 9 at the VAMC in Waco, Texas, to instead be used for renovation and construction of a joint venture cardiovascular institute at the Olin E. Teague VAMC in Temple, Texas. This unusual procedure is outside of the established reprogramming process--unfortunately, it sends the message to the VA that the money can be reprogrammed ``as long as the money stays in Texas.'' 
   Other VA construction projects--outside the President's original budget request--include: $3.9 million to convert unfinished space into research laboratories at the ambulatory care addition of the Harry S. Truman VAMC in Columbia, Missouri; $3 million for renovations of the research building at the Bronx VAMC in Bronx, New York (next door to the prestigious Mount Sinai Hospital); and $500,000 for preparation of the satellite site to expand the National Cemetery at Salisbury, North Carolina. Some final egregious examples of unrequested, additional spending include the following: the VA is directed to provide $1 million to the National Technology Transfer Center to establish a pilot program to assess, market, and license medical technologies researched in VA facilities; $750,000 is provided to continue the VA's participation with the Alaska Federal Health Care Access Network; and Marshall County, 
   Mississippi, Hardin County Tennessee and Letcher County, Kentucky were inserted ahead of other remote areas to become federally funded Community Health Care Centers to provide outpatient primary and preventive health care services to veterans in their home communities. These areas appear to have been added ahead of higher priority communities because their interests were well-represented in the Appropriations Conference. 
   I am encouraged by the increase in veterans health care funding, and if this title of the bill had been separately presented to the Senate, I would have wholeheartedly supported it, despite the earmarks and set-asides it contains. 
   This title of the bill contains the funding for many programs vital in meeting the housing needs of our nation and for the revitalization and development of our communities. Many of the programs administered by HUD help our nation's families purchase their homes, assist low-income families obtain affordable housing, combat discrimination in the housing market, assist in rehabilitating neighborhoods and help our nation's most vulnerable--the elderly, disabled and disadvantaged--have access to safe and affordable housing. 
   When the Senate debated this bill, I highlighted for my colleagues numerous funding earmarks for specific housing proposals and set asides contained in the Senate version of this bill. Unfortunately, I find myself coming to the floor today to again highlight the numerous budgetary violations which remain or were added to this conference report. The list of projects which received priority billing is quite long but I will highlight a few of the more egregious violations. 
   $3,000,000,000 to Olympic Regional Development Authority, New York for upgrades at Mt. Van Hoevenberg Sports Complex. 
   New language inserted in conference providing $15,000,000 for urban empowerment zones. 
   $1,000,000 to the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee for housing infrastructure improvements for the Olympics and Paraolympics. 
   $1,000,000 to Syracuse University in New York for rehabilitation and community redevelopment of the Marshall Street Area. 
   Directive language to the Secretary requiring the continuation of providing interest reduction payment in accordance with the existing authorization schedule for Darlinton Manor Apartments, 100-Unit project located at 606 North 5th Street, Bozeman, Montana, which will continue as affordable housing pursuant to a use agreement with the state of Montana. 
   In addition to the numerous budgetary violations which this report contains, I am also concerned about the legislative initiatives which have suddenly appeared during conference which were not contained in the Senate or House appropriation bills. The intent of this legislative language is certainly laudable--providing safe, quality and affordable housing for seniors and the disabled is and must remain a priority for our nation. However, we cannot and should not be passing comprehensive legislation which makes substantial changes to the housing system without allowing both chambers of Congress to debate and provide valuable input to such an important proposal. Certainly, an issue as important as meeting the housing needs of our most vulnerable population, deserves thoughtful deliberation and careful review through the established legislative process and should not be attached at the last moment to a funding conference report. This is not the manner in which we should be implementing meaningful reform intended to benefit the citizens of our nation. 
   After reviewing the sections funding the Environmental Protection Agency, I find that the conferees continued to run rampant in their pork-barrelling in this section of the bill. There are few areas in this final conference report that clearly indicate the level of parochial actions than those targeted in EPA's budget. 
   Just last month, the Senate passed a bill providing funding for environmental protection programs, which included $207 million in unrequested and low-priority earmarks. However, the number of earmarks has seriously inflated in the conference report by $73 million to a new grand pork total of $280 million. 
   I understand that we have critical needs around our country dealing with leaking underground storage tanks, water and wastewater infrastructure, air pollution, pesticide abatement, and other important environmental issues. Many of the projects identified in this conference report are no doubt critical to many communities who are forced to deal with these serious environmental threats.  
   I do not question their merit at all. I do question the process by which the appropriators have made decisions that prioritize certain projects over many others across our nation in such a blatant and provincial manner. For example, $1 million is earmarked for the Animal Waste Management Consortium that will benefit the University of Missouri, Iowa State University, North Carolina State University, Michigan State University, Oklahoma State University, and Purdue University to deal with animal waste management. Again, this may very well be important, but there is little background provided in the report to explain the national priority interest of earmarking a million dollars to deal with animal waste management in six specific states. 
   EPA has an established process by which the agency administers grant and loan programs that are supposed to be awarded on a competitive and priority basis. However, these guidelines are simply thrown out the window when the conferees direct the agency through earmarks and directive language to give priority consideration to various states and projects rather than undergoing a competitive review. Despite stated budget constraints, the conferees found a way to include an additional $68 million more in wastewater infrastructure funding than previously agreed to by both houses for locale-specific earmarks. 
   I know first-hand that many of my constituents in Arizona have a great need to improve their water and wastewater systems, but they will be forced to wait in line while other projects are given priority treatment through this conference report. 
   Clearly, no title of the bill was left unsullied by pork-barrel spending. For the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), there is $10 million available to the State of California for pilot projects to demonstrate seismic retrofit technology. For the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), this Report also includes earmarks of money for locality-specific projects such as $3 million for the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, Illinois, $14 million for infrastructure needs at the University of Missouri, Columbia, and $10 million for the Regional Application Center in Cayuga County, New York. For example, the National Science Foundation (NSF), there is $60 million for the Plant Genome Research Program. When will this outrageous pork-barrel spending stop? 
   The conferees have also included legislative initiatives that were clearly out of scope of the conference. The bill includes a general provision authorizing NASA to carry out a new program to demonstrate the commercial feasibility and economic viability of private business operations involved in the International Space Station. This provision has not had the benefit of consideration in any hearings or public and private industry discussions. It would seem logical for private sector views to be considered if we hope to attract them to this venture. 
   The bill also shifts the way NASA will operate both the space station and the space shuttle program. We have already heard from some small companies that this program will put NASA and use of the shuttle for commercial payloads in direct competition. We do not want to stifle the creativity and ingenuity of these small launch companies, nor should we rely upon NASA to provide all the answers to our space problems, especially in the area of commercialization of space. I think NASA has enough problems with the space station, including the fact that it is two years behind schedule and $9 billion over budget. 
   Finally, the conferees have included two provisions related to commercial space launch indemnification extensions and insurance and indemnification for experimental vehicles. Neither of these provisions were included in either of the appropriations bills and they clearly fall within the jurisdiction of the appropriate authorizing committees. 
   The appropriators should abide by the rules and procedures of the Senate and refrain from usurping the power of the authorizing committees, in fact, the rest of the Senate, by including these legislative provisions in a conference report written behind closed doors. 
   I am gravely disappointed that I am unable to vote for this conference report. This measure contains funding for many critical programs which help provide important resources to our communities. It includes vitally important funding to fulfill our obligation to our nation's veterans, those who fought for the peace and security we enjoy today. Included in this bill is funding for section 202 housing which I know most, if not all, of my colleagues would agree helps meet the needs of America's seniors by ensuring they have homes which are safe, affordable and accommodates the demands of aging. Also included is valuable funding for section 811 which helps disabled individuals have an opportunity to live independently as part of a community in quality and reasonably priced homes. 
   Because of the egregious amount of pork-barrel spending in this bill and the addition of legislative provisions clearly outside the scope of the conference, I must oppose its passage. I regret doing so because of the many important and worthy programs included in the conference agreement, but I cannot endorse the continued waste of taxpayer dollars on special-interest programs, nor can I acquiesce in bypassing the normal authorizing process for legislative initiatives. 
   Mr, President, the full list of the objectional provisions is on my Senate website. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that I cannot support this amendment at this time. I want to make it clear why. 
   The amendment would essentially restore all of the provisions of S. 26, which is the original McCain-Feingold legislation to this bill. I still support those provisions and strongly believe that most, if not all, should be enacted into law. Now is not the time to do so. 
   My good friend, RUSS FEINGOLD, and I spent much time debating as to how we could move forward on the subject of campaign finance reform. We, along with many others who have supported this effort for many years, came to the conclusion that some reform is better than no reform. Unfortunately, if this amendment is adopted, a political point will be made, but reform will be doomed, and the sponsors of this present amendment are very well aware of that. 
   We all know there are 52 votes for S. 26. We all know that. We went through a long period of debate and amending. We know there are 52 votes. Tell me where the additional 8 votes are for S. 26, and I will be the first to sign on and support this. 
   I ask my dear friends who just propounded what is basically McCain-Feingold, where are the votes? I think the answer is obvious. 
   What we have tried to do in proposing a ban on soft money and a codification of that is to start a process  which has succeeded in this great deliberative body over many years with amendments and disposal of amendments, up or down, and improving the bill but letting the Senate work its will. We have already picked up one additional vote. I am told there are other Members on this side of the aisle who are considering supporting this legislation. 
   But it is also clear that those same people who are leaning towards supporting would not vote for S. 26 in its entirety because of their strongly held--although I don't agree, I respect their views--view that the independent campaign aspect of the original McCain-Feingold has constitutional difficulties associated with it. 
   We know the facts. We need 60 votes to prevail, and 52, while a majority, is not enough and will not be until the rules of the Senate are changed where 51 votes are necessary for passage. 
   For some time, I hoped that my colleagues who oppose reform would allow a majority in both bodies to prevail and do what the vast majority of the American public desires. But the opponents of reform, defenders of the status quo, won't cede their rights. 
   I have learned from previous debates on other matters not to let the perfect be the enemy of the good. The bill before the Senate represents a modest step but a very important step forward. 
   I want to emphasize that point again. If we can pass the underlying bill, we will have made an extremely important and vitally needed step forward. 
   There is no observer of this issue of campaign finance reform who does not disagree that banning of soft money would have an important and salutary effect on the evils and ills of the present campaign finance system. There is no objective observer, whether they are for or against campaign finance reform, who would deny that the single act about allowing soft money would have a significant effect on the present system. 
   Do I personally desire that a more comprehensive bill be passed into law? Yes. In my 16 years in the Congress, I have learned to be a realist. 
   Simply put, if this amendment is accepted, campaign finance reform will be dead. There will be no reform this year and most likely next year. During that period, I am sure that more loopholes in the current system will be found and exploited. Public cynicism will have grown and, unfortunately, nothing will have changed except the same political points will have been made once again and, undoubtedly, more and more money will be awash in our political process. 
   The New York Times had it right on 14 October. Let me quote: 
   An important but little-noticed boost was given to campaign finance reform in the Senate this week. Sam Brownback of Kansas became the eighth Republican to break with his party's leadership and support the McCain-Feingold soft-money ban, scheduled for debate today. There are now 53 votes to choke off a Republican-led filibuster and pass the bill, only seven votes short of what is needed. The pressure is mounting on other Republicans to support reform. But amid these favorable developments, a move by Robert Torricelli and some other Democratic supporters of reform could undercut the cause. 
   The risk is posed by a Democratic attempt to block Senators John McCain and Russell Feingold from advancing a stripped-down version of their reform legislation. The new McCain-Feingold bill would omit a section preventing independent groups from raising unlimited money for sham campaign ads two months before an election. Some Republicans say that because that section threatens free speech, they cannot go along with the central objective of reform, which is to ban unlimited donations to campaigns waged by political parties. Shrinking the bill to a simple soft-money ban for parties has paid off. Senator Brownback is on board and other Senate Republicans may follow. 
   Mr. Torricelli and the Democratic Senate leader, Tom Daschle, are nonetheless determined today to scrap the new McCain-Feingold bill and substitute the original bill, with the limits on independent groups. This is a serious tactical mistake that raises questions about the Democrats' commitment to campaign finance reform. They ought to know that the bill they are pushing does not have the votes to break a filibuster, whereas the revised McCain-Feingold bill has a chance of getting them. 
   It would be especially grievous if their move played into the destructive tactics of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and other Republican foes of reform. Mr. McConnell might even try to deliver enough votes for the Democratic move, allowing it to pass because in the end the bill in that form will surely die. 
   Some Democrats, noting that the House passed its broader Shays-Meehan reform last month, warn that a narrower bill in the Senate will not survive either. But Mr. Brownback's courageous move makes it worth a try.  
   Mr. President, I think the New York Times has it right. I think we should determine that this would be viewed by many as a cynical ploy which would assure the failure of campaign finance reform. 
   I believe we need to vote down this amendment, return to what has given those who have been laboring on this issue for many years, some optimism, and to go back to a process where there are amendments on the specific issues. If we correctly debate and amend this issue, each one of those provisions of the original provisions of McCain-Feingold will be brought up for consideration, voted, and the body will work its will. 
   It is abundantly clear that if this amendment is adopted, it is the end of campaign finance reform. Have no doubt about the effect of this amendment. No one should have any doubt about the effect of this amendment. I hope that is well understood by Americans all over this country who have committed themselves, people such as ``Granny D,'' who yesterday visited with me and Senator FEINGOLD. She has walked across this country. People have committed themselves to reforming this system. People such as her all over America deserve better than what is being done with this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Maine. She has been a stalwart and steadfast advocate, ally, and friend in this very difficult effort. I know that not only the people of Maine but the people of Arizona are very appreciative of everything she has done in this effort. She lends credibility and grace to the debate. I thank her very much for everything she has done. 
   I want to talk for a few minutes about an organization called the Committee for Economic Development. It is an independent research and policy organization of some 250 business leaders and educators. It is nonprofit, nonpartisan, and nonpolitical. 
   The interesting thing about the Committee for Economic Development is that they are composed preliminarily of business leaders in America, mainly from major corporations, some smaller, and many educators. It has an incredibly illustrious membership. 
   This organization took a very bold step not too long ago; that is, a group of chief executive officers of major corporations decided they would stand up and reject soft money contributions to American political campaigns, whether they be Republican or Democrat. I am sure that was not an easy decision on their part. I am sure there have been significant pressures brought to bear against many of them as individuals and as corporations. 
   They issued a very interesting statement by the Research and Policy Committee, the Committee for Economic Development. It is entitled, ``Investing in the People's Business: A Business Proposal for Campaign Finance Reform.'' Chapter IV is entitled: ``Recommendations for Reform.'' It says, 
   Our recommendations are also informed by our belief in certain basic principles that should govern a system of campaign finance regulation. The five principles listed below reflect the objectives we regard as most important, which should form the basis for evaluating regulatory reform proposals. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator from Kentucky yield to me? 
   First of all, I believe we should move forward and have amendments. I would like to discuss it with all of us discussing it, go into a quorum call in a second, if we might. 
   First of all, I would like to frame a parliamentary inquiry very quickly. 
   Mr. President, if an amendment in the nature of a substitute were to be offered, how many votes would be needed to affirmatively adopt the amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If an amendment in the nature of a substitute were to be offered, how many votes would be needed to affirmatively adopt the amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am asking, if an amendment in the nature of a substitute---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If such an amendment were adopted, and it contained a new rules change, how many votes would be required to invoke cloture? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. During consideration of the pending, underlying legislation, would such an amendment be in order? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. My point is, a little parliamentary tactic was played early yesterday which did not start things off in the manner which we had sort of hoped it would--that a rule was adopted that now requires 67 votes. But as most parliamentary tactics, it can be negated by a simple substitute amendment that could be propounded by any Senator, which amendment, in the form of a substitute, would then negate the rule change, which then would bring us back to the position that we are of 60 votes. 
   So I say to my friend from Kentucky, when we agree to further amendments or we agree to his unanimous consent request--which none of us has seen, which the Senator did not take the time to show me--we have to be a little bit careful and cautious as to what we agree to. 
   So I want to move forward. I want to move forward with amendments. I will be glad to go into a quorum call and sit down with all of the Senators present on the floor and see if we can't work something out. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I still have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. No. I asked if the Senator would yield. I did not ask if the Senator would yield for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If the Senator would allow---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I cannot ask you a question. I can only answer. You can yield the floor, and I will be glad to yield the floor back. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will try to frame it as a question. 
   Is the Senator aware that up until half an hour ago we were not allowed to see the amendment nor have we been able to see your proposed unanimous consent request--we were not allowed to look at it. Now we have a  chance to look at it. We would be glad to look at it, but I still say, if the Senator from Kentucky wants to really move forward, then we go into a quorum call, we sit down, as has been my habit in 13 years on the floor here, and see if we cannot work out an agreement. If we cannot, then we will not. But that is the way we usually do it. 
   I want to assure the Senator from Kentucky that, from my 
   viewpoint, as long as we are protected, as long as we can make sure this is a straightforward process, then I am eager for additional amendments to be considered when debate on this particular amendment has been consumed. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN.  Will the Senator from Kentucky yield again for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I want to tell the Senator that the Senator from Montana and the Senator from Utah and I and the Senator from Wisconsin are in agreement that an amendment by Senator BENNETT and Senator CONRAD would be in order, unless the Senator from Wisconsin has additional comments about the pending amendment, but that it is also proper and appropriate to continue the debate until finished on the pending amendment and that, of course, we would like to make sure that any unanimous consent agreement we are in agreement with. I hope the Democratic leader would also agree with that approach to the pending business because I am not in any way in disagreement with the view of the Senator from Kentucky that we need to move forward with the process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I reserve the right to object. I will not object. I think it is important that we move forward. I think there are Senators on the floor who want to propose amendments and who want to debate. I want to say--perhaps this is the only time in this entire debate the Senator from Kentucky and I are in total agreement--that we should allow an amendment by Senator BENNETT and Senator BURNS, even if I am not in agreement with that amendment. I think it is very destructive of the entire proposition with which we began this debate, and that is that we would allow amendments and votes. I do not object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Could I prevail one more time on the Senator from Kentucky to yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. According to the parliamentary exchange that I heard between you and the President, the Senator from Utah still can offer an amendment; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. By the brains? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19991015</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator for his response. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I understand under the unanimous-consent agreement I have 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I voted in support of the Defense authorization bill for the fiscal year that began earlier this month. I would have liked to have been able to similarly support the Defense appropriations bill. Unfortunately, the unconscionable and noncredible budgeting procedures that are used in this bill are too pervasive, the level of wasteful spending of taxpayer dollars is too irresponsible for me to acquiesce in passage of this legislation. 
   I look at this bill that is larded with earmarks and set-asides for powerful defense contractors, influential local groups and officials, and with other parochial interests. One can understand the distrust with which the average citizen views the Federal government. The use of gimmicks and budgetary subterfuge simply deepens the gulf that exists between those of us who toil within the confines of the Beltway, and Americans across the Nation who see large portions of their paychecks diverted by Congress for purposes they often do not support. 
   What kind of message are we sending American business men and women, especially the small businesses most affected by telling the Department of Defense to purposely delay paying its bills? When the Department of Defense fails to pay contractors on time, those contractors often have to tell their suppliers, subcontractors, and employees that they will have to wait for their check. The trickle-down effect is felt most by the employees and their families whose budgets often can't absorb a delay of a week in getting a paycheck, much less the 29-day delay mandated by this bill. 
   This provision simply pushes off until the next fiscal year the bills that come due in the last month of this fiscal year. Does anyone in this body believe that it will be any easier next year to live within the budget caps? It will be more difficult because, by approving this gimmick, we are spending $2 billion of next year's available funding. In fact, we already pushed another $6 billion into the next fiscal year by ``forward funding'' programs in the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill. In total, we will have already spent $8 billion out of next year's budget cap before taking up a single fiscal year 2001 appropriations bill. 
   And how can we explain the categorization of $2.7 billion for normal, predictable operations, training, and maintenance funding as ``emergency'' spending? Obviously, ongoing operations around the world cost money, as does necessary training as well as maintaining the admittedly bloated infrastructure of the Department of Defense. None of this should come as a surprise to the appropriators, and thus, in my view, cannot be justified as ``emergency'' spending, other than as a clear manifestation of an effort to evade budget caps. 
   This $7.2 billion will come straight out of the budget surplus that the Congress promised just a few months ago to return to the American taxpayers. Together with the ever-increasing $8.7 billion in ``emergency'' farm aid--some of which is admittedly justifiable--we will have already spent the entire non-Social Security surplus, and even a few billion of the Social Security Trust Fund. How can we vote--not once but four times--to put a ``lockbox'' on the Social Security surplus and then turn right around and spend it without blinking an eye? 
   At the same time, we are funding ships and aircraft and research programs that were not requested by the  military, and in fact do not even appear on the ever-expanding Unfunded Requirements Lists, the integrity of which have been thoroughly undermined by pressures from this body. 
   Mr. President, this bill includes $6.4 billion in low-priority, wasteful spending not subject to the kind of deliberative, competitive process that we should demand of all items in spending bills. Six billion dollars--more than ever before in any defense bill in the 13 years I have been in this body. 
   Argue all you want about the merits of individual programs that were added at the request of interested Members. At the end of the day, there is over $6 billion worth of pork in a defense spending bill at the same time we are struggling with myriad readiness and modernization problems. No credible budget process 
   can withstand such abuse indefinitely and still retain the level of legitimacy needed to properly represent the interests of the Nation as a whole. 
   The ingenuity of the appropriators never ceases to amaze me. In this defense bill, we are spending money on unrequested research and development projects like the $3 million for advanced food service technology and on activities totally unrelated to national defense, such as the $8 million in the budget for Puget Sound Naval Shipyard Resource Preservation. 
   These items are representative of the bulk of the pork-barrel spending that is inserted into spending bills for parochial reasons: hundreds of small items or activities totaling hundreds of millions of dollars. Combine them with the big-ticket items in the bill--like the 11 Blackhawk helicopters at a cost of over $100 million; the $375 million in long-lead funding for another amphibious assault ship; and the $275 million for F-15 aircraft above the $263 million in the budget request--and you have a major investment in special interest goodwill at the expense of broader national security considerations. Two of these programs, the amphibious assault ship and the Blackhawk helicopters, are specifically mentioned in the Secretary of Defense's letter to the chairmen of the Senate and House Appropriations Committees as diverting funds from ``Much higher priority needs *.*.*'' 
   How long are we going to continue to acquiesce in the forced acquisition of security locks just because they are manufactured in the state that was represented by a very powerful former member of this body? Making a bad situation worse, we have extended the requirement that one particular company's product be purchased for government-owned facilities to also include the contractors that serve them, and earmarked another $10 million for that purpose. What's next? Are we going to mandate that these locks be used for the bicycles of children of defense contractors? 
   Another distasteful budget sleight of hand was the addition of 15 military construction projects totaling $92 million that were neither requested nor authorized. The Appropriations Conference took care of that, however. These projects are both authorized and fully funded in the Conference Report, calling 
   into question the relevance of the defense authorizing committees in the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
   As someone who is concerned that the Navy, by design, will lack the means of supporting ground forces ashore with high-volume, high-impact naval gunfire for at least another 10 years, I am more than a little taken aback that the California delegation has placed a higher priority on accumulating tourist dollars than on preserving one of the last two battleships in the fleet. The $3 million earmarked for relocating the U.S.S. Iowa represents a particularly pernicious episode of giving higher priority to bringing home the bacon than to national security interests. Simplistic platitudes regarding the age of these ships aside, no one can deny that they continue to represent one of the most capable non-nuclear platforms in the arsenal. But, yes, they do make fine museums. 
   Also discouraging is the growing use of domestic source restrictions on the acquisition of defense items. The Defense Appropriations Conference Report is replete with so-called ``Buy American'' restrictions, every one of which serves solely to protect businesses from competition. The use of protectionist legislation to insulate domestic industry from competition not only deprives the American consumer of the best product at the lowest price, it deprives the American taxpayer of the best value for his or her tax dollar. It undermines alliance relations while we are encouraging friendly countries to ``buy American.'' As Secretary Cohen stated, such restrictions ``undermine DoD's ability to procure the best systems at the least cost and to advance highly beneficial armaments cooperation with our allies.'' 
   Mr. President, our military personnel will not fail to notice that, while we are spending inordinate amounts of money on programs and activities not requested by the armed forces, we rejected a proposal to get 12,000 military families off food stamps. That is not a message with which I wish to be associated. This bill appropriates $2.5 million, at the insistence of the opposition of the House, not one penny to get the children of military personnel currently on food stamps off of them. The cost of the provision I sponsored in the defense authorization bill was $6 million per year to permanently remove 10,000 military families from the food stamp rolls. Yet those who fought hard to defeat that measure have no problem finding hundreds of millions of dollars to take care of businesses important to their districts and campaigns. 
   This conference report represents everything those of us in the majority were supposed to be against. We weren't supposed to be the party that, when it came to power, would abuse the Congressional power of the purse because we couldn't restrain ourselves from bowing to the special interests that ask us to spend billions of dollars on projects that benefit them, not the nation as a whole. 
   We were supposed to be the pro-defense party, the party that gave highest priority to ensuring our national security and the readiness of our Armed Forces. We weren't supposed to be the party that wastes $6.4 billion on low-priority, wasteful, and unnecessary spending of scarce defense resources. 
   Our Armed Forces are the best in the world, but there is much that must be done to complete their restructuring, retraining, and re-equipping to meet the challenges of the future. I support a larger defense budget but I know that, if we eliminate pork-barrel spending from the defense budget, we can modernize our military without adding to the overall budget. Every year, Congress earmarks about $4 to 6 billion for wasteful, unnecessary, and low-priority projects that do little or nothing to support our military. Because Congress refuses to allow unneeded bases to be closed, the Pentagon wastes another $7 billion per year to maintain this excess infrastructure. If we privatized or consolidated support and depot maintenance activities, we could save $2 billion every year. And if we eliminated the anti-competitive ``Buy America'' provisions from law, we could save another $5.5 billion every year on defense contracts. Altogether, these common-sense proposals would free up over $20 billion every year in the defense budget that could be used to provide adequate pay and ensure appropriate quality of life for our military personnel and their families; pay for needed training and modern equipment for our forces; and pay for other high-priority defense needs, like an effective national missile defense system. 
   Instead, the Congress continues to squander scarce defense dollars, while nearly 12,000 of the men and women who protect our nation's security, and their families, must subsist on food stamps. It is a national disgrace. 
   Moral indignation serves little practical purpose in the Halls of Congress. In the end, we are what we are: politicians more concerned with parochial matters than with broader considerations of national security and fiscal responsibility. I do not like voting against the bill that funds the Department of Defense, not while we have pilots patrolling the skies over Iraq and troops enforcing the peace on the Korean peninsula and in such places as Bosnia, Kosovo and even East Timor. 
   However, I cannot support this defense bill. It is so full of wasteful spending and smoke and mirrors gimmickry that what good lies within is overwhelmed by the bad. It wastes billions of dollars on unnecessary programs, while revitalizing discredited budgeting practices. Those of us in the  majority correctly rejected the Administration's ill-considered attempt to incrementally fund military construction projects--but now we are proceeding to institutionalize budgeting practices that warrant even greater contempt. 
   I strongly urge my colleagues to vote against this bill. 
   Mr. President, the list of add-ons, increases, and earmarks that total $6.4 billion, can be found on my web site. 
   I yield the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. STEVENS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, we now begin debate again on an issue which is important to the American people. Before I begin my opening statement, it is my understanding that the Senator from Kentucky will manage on his side and I will manage on this side, along with the Senator from Wisconsin; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. In support or opposition? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, it is customary with a piece of legislation when the sponsors of the bill are on the floor they manage the conduct of the legislation and the opposition manages the other. If the Senator from Nevada has other desires, I guess we can worry about it later on, but that is the way it has been in this debate. 
   Before I begin my remarks, I recognize a very unusual, incredible and great American, a true patriot, an incredible woman who is 89 years of age, named Doris Haddock. 
   Doris, known to all of us, and now millions of Americans, as ``Granny D,'' began her walk months ago, beginning in the State of California. She has now arrived in the State of Tennessee. I believe she represents all that is good in America. She, at the age of 89, has taken up this struggle to clean up American politics. We are honored by her presence. She is in the gallery today, and we thank her for her commitment to open, honest government of which the American people can be proud. 
   So, ``Granny D,'' you exceed any small, modest contributions those of us who have labored in the vineyards of reform have made to this Earth. We are grateful for you. We ask you not to give up this struggle because we know that we will prevail. 
   Mr. President, on December 6, 1904, Theodore Roosevelt, addressing the people of the United States, said:  
   The power of the government to protect the integrity of the elections of its own officials is inherent and has been recognized and affirmed by repeated declarations of the Supreme Court. There is no enemy of free government more dangerous and none so insidious as the corruption of the electorate. No one defends or excuses corruption, and it would seem to follow that none would oppose vigorous measures to eradicate it. The details of such law may be safely left to the wise discretion of the Congress.  
   So said President Theodore Roosevelt in his fourth annual message delivered from the White House on December 6, 1904. 
   On August 31, 1910, Theodore Roosevelt said:  
   Now this means that our government, national and State, must be freed from the sinister influence or control of special interests. Exactly as the special interests of cotton and slavery threatened our political integrity before the Civil War, so now the great special business interests too often control and corrupt the men and methods of government for their own profit. We must drive the special interests out of politics.  
   That is one of our tasks today. 
   And he goes on. 
   Some things obviously never change, such as the cycles of American politics. In 1907, thanks to the efforts of Theodore Roosevelt, a law was passed in Congress that banned corporate contributions to American political campaigns. I do not pretend to be as eloquent as Theodore Roosevelt was in that campaign against the influences of special interests on American politics. Suffice it to say, he succeeded. He succeeded in getting through Congress a law, which still remains on the statutes, that outlaws corporate contributions to American political campaigns. 
   In 1947, the Republican-controlled Congress of the United States outlawed union contributions to American political campaigns. And after the Watergate scandal of 1974, further limitations were placed on the influence of special interests in American political campaigns. 
   It is now legal in America for a People's Liberation Army-owned corporation in China, with a subsidiary in the United States of America, to give unlimited amounts of money to an American political campaign. That is wrong. It is wrong and it needs to be fixed. 
   The pending legislation is very simple. It does only two things: first, it bans Federal soft money and, second, it  codifies the Beck decision. Soft money is the unlimited 6- and 7-figure contributions that now go into American political campaigns. 
   In the past, my colleague from Wisconsin and I have offered comprehensive campaign finance legislation. That measure was widely debated and many on this side of the aisle expressed criticism of certain provisions in the bill. As a result, we have taken a new approach, a simpler approach. We only seek to ban soft money, those big checks of ten thousand, one hundred thousand, and even one million dollars that powerful special interests use like clubs to make their narrow voices heard so loudly in the great chamber, and to codify the Beck decision. We leave all other issues off the table and instead would hope such matters could be dealt with in the amending process. And as such I implore my colleagues to come down to the floor, debate and offer amendments, and let us move forward on this simple, common sense and urgently needed reform. 
   I want to express my sincere hope that before this debate is over that we will have either passed this measure or will have come to agreement on how to move forward constructively on this very important subject. 
   Before I go on, I want to assure the Senator from Kentucky that I respect his opposition. I neither question his motives nor his integrity. He is a man who is willing to stand up and fight for what he believes in. The conduct of the debate in previous years has been characterized by mutual respect for the ideas and proposals of either side. I know I speak for the Senator from Wisconsin. I think it is important we maintain this debate on that level. I know we will do so as we have in the past. 
   Mr. President, will the banning of soft money clean up our elections completely? Of course not. But it is an important first step. Should more be done? Absolutely. For that reason, I hope we can engage in a constructive debate that addresses the concerns of senators from both parties who are sincerely interested in achieving genuine reform. We have an obligation--a duty--to at least close the most politically pernicious loophole in campaign finance law. 
   Let me stress at the outset, before reform opponents falsely charge proponents with an assault on the first amendment, that this legislation does not ban political speech, it is in truth about saving it. I want to protect the hard earned $100 contribution given by the small town business owner or union machinist to his or her Congressman. I want to protect the contribution of the local supporter, the little guy. The hard earned contribution given to a candidate by a voter, with a firm handshake and an honest look right in the eye and the expectation of good government, not a special corporate tax loophole or million dollar IOU to a union boss. 
   What this fight is all about is taking the $100,000 check out of American politics for good. It's about putting the little guy back in charge, and freeing our system from the corrupting power of the special interests bottomless wallet. It's about forcing our government to pay attention to the little guy, those people who actually cast votes to elect us, and not just to the richest in corporate America or the powerful union bosses. 
   We are blessed to be Americans, not just in times of prosperity, but at all times. We are a part of something noble; a great experiment to prove to the world that democracy is not only the most effective form of government, but the only moral government. And, at least in years past, we felt more than lucky to be Americans. We felt proud. 
   But, today , we confront a very serious challenge to our political system, as dangerous in its debasing effect on our democracy as war and depression have been in the past. And it will take the best efforts of every public-spirited American to defeat it. 
   The threat that concerns me is the pervasive public cynicism that is debilitating our democracy. When the people come to believe that government is so corrupt that it no longer serves their ends, basic civil consensus will deteriorate as people seek substitutes for the unifying values of patriotism. 
   A poll taken this July found that more than twice a many Americans--64 percent--feel disconnected from government as compared to those who feel connected to it. More than half of Americans--55 percent--refer to ``the government'' rather than ``our government.'' Mr. President, as elected officials, we should find this trend alarming. 
   We are a prosperous country, but many Americans, particularly the young, can't see beyond the veil of their cynicism and indifference to imagine themselves as part of a cause greater than their self-interest. This cynicism in younger Americans is particularly acute. Among younger Americans--those 18-34--69 percent feel disconnected from the government with one in three of that 69 percent feeling ``very disconnected.'' 
   This country has survived many difficult challenges: a civil war, world war, depression, the civil rights struggle, a cold war. All were just causes. They were good fights. They were patriotic challenges. 
   We have a new patriotic challenge for a new century: declaring war on the cynicism that threatens our public institutions, our culture, and, ultimately, our private happiness. It is a great and just cause, worthy of our best service. It should not, and neither I nor my friend from 
   Wisconsin will allow it to, be casually dismissed with parliamentary tactics. 
   Those of us privileged to hold public office have ourselves to blame for the sickness in American public life today. It is we who have squandered the public trust. We who have, time and again, in full public view placed our personal and partisan interests before the national interest, earning the public's contempt for our poll-driven policies, our phony posturing, the lies we call spin and the damage control we substitute for progress. It is we who are the defenders of a campaign finance system that is nothing less than an elaborate influence peddling scheme in which both parties conspire to stay in office by selling the country to the highest bidder. 
   All of us are tainted by this system, myself included. I do not make any claims of piety. I have personally experienced the pull from campaign staff alerting me to a call from a large donor. I do not believe that any of us privileged enough to serve in this body would ever automatically do the bidding of those who give. I do not believe that contributions are corrupting in that manner. But I do believe they buy access. I do believe they distort the system. And I do believe, as I noted, that all of us, including myself, have been affected by this system. 
   The opponents of campaign finance reform will tell you the voters do not care. They are wrong. Most Americans care very much that it is now legal for a subsidiary of a corporation owned by the Chinese Army to give unlimited amounts of money to American political campaigns. Most Americans care very much when the Lincoln bedroom is rented out to the highest bidder. Most Americans care very much when impoverished Indian tribes must pay large sums of money to have their voice heard in Washington. If their outrage seems muted, it is only because they have resigned themselves to the sad conclusion that this cancer on the body politic is incurable. 
   I think most Americans understand that soft money--the enormous sums of money given to both parties by just about every special interest in the country--corrupts both politics and government whether it comes from big business or from labor bosses and trial lawyers. It seizes the attention of elected officials who then neglect problems that directly affect the lives of every American. That is something about which each of us should care deeply. 
   Americans care deeply about reforming our Tax Code, improving education, reducing the size of Government, about improving our national security, and many other pressing national issues. But, fundamental reform is not possible when soft money and special interests demand a higher return on their political investments. 
   Most Americans believe we conspire to hold on to every political advantage we have, lest we jeopardize our incumbency by a single lost vote. Most Americans believe we would pay any price, bear any burden to ensure the success of our personal ambitions--no matter  how injurious the effect might be to the national interest. And who can blame them when the wealthiest Americans and richest organized interests can make six figure donations to political parties and gain the special access to power such generosity confers on the donor. 
   The special interests will tell you that the fight to limit soft money is an attack on the first amendment. They are wrong. They are entirely wrong. The courts have long held that Congress may constitutionally limit contributions to campaigns and political parties. 
   In the 1976 Supreme Court case Buckley versus Valeo the Justices affirmed Congress' right to uphold contribution limits in the name of preventing, and I quote, ``corruption and the appearance of corruption spawned by the real or imagined coercive influence of large financial contributions on candidates' positions and their actions.'' 
   The Roger Tamrazes of the world, big tobacco, the labor unions, the trial lawyers, the corporate giants, and the endless number of special interests that grease their agenda with soft money know precisely what the court was saying. 
   Stopping corruption and the appearance of corruption was why in 1907, under the leadership of Republican President Teddy Roosevelt, corporations were barred from giving directly to political campaigns. Labor unions were similarly bound in 1947. Both of these bans have survived all court challenges and remain the law of the land--which is why claims that corporate and labor soft money is constitutionally protected are so absurd. 
   Stopping corruption and the appearance of corruption was why, in 1974, individual political action committee donations were limited. Should these amounts--and those limits on individual donors--be raised 25 years after they were enacted? Yes, they probably should. But that is reason for us not to engage in filibuster and obstruction and instead engage in constructive dialogue and the normal amendment process. 
   Stopping corruption and the appearance of corruption is why we must now close the loophole that allows unlimited amounts of soft money to overflow political coffers. Without the big dollar ``quid'' of soft money in the electoral process, there can be no legislative ``pro quo'' that neglects the national interest in favor of big donors. That is precisely what the Supreme Court had in mind in Buckley versus Valeo. 
   Some of my fellow Republicans have criticized my campaign finance reform proposals because they believe it leaves unaddressed the problem of union dues being used for political purposes against the wish of individual workers. I agree this is a problem that should be addressed, just as we should address the issue of corporate money being used for political purposes against the wish of stockholders. This legislation does seek to address that issue. First, as I have noted, the legislation codifies the Beck decision. And second, when we ban soft money, we are also banning union soft money. Let me emphasize this point. When we ban soft money, we are also banning union soft money spending which will have a dramatic effect on union influence in elections. Unions spend a great deal of soft money, most of it directed to elect Democrats and defeat Republicans. This bill will reduce that spending. 
   I have advocated codifying the Supreme Court's landmark Beck decision in which the 
   court affirmed the right of nonunion workers to bar union dues they are forced to pay from being used for political purposes and to have that money returned to them. The Clinton administration has issued regulations that emasculate this rule. I believe it should be codified and enforced. 
   What could be more un-American, what could be more antithetical to the tenets of free political speech, than forcing workers to pay dues for election and political activities they oppose. The Beck decision should be codified, enforced, and even expanded. I would strongly support a commonsense expansion of Beck. And at the same time, we should find some mechanism to ensure that corporate contributions reflect the wishes of individual stockholders in a manner that mirrors what we do for unions. 
   If we can come to an agreement regarding the consideration of campaign finance reform in a fair manner, I am confident we could do much more to address the problems associated with labor union involvement in the political process. 
   If my colleagues believe more needs to be done, I would be pleased to entertain any legitimate ideas. However, to be clear, I will oppose any ideas that are meant merely to poison--or kill--any real possibility of enacting into law election reforms. 
   The sponsors of this legislation claim no exclusive right to propose campaign finance reform. We have offered good, fair, necessary reform but certainly not a perfect remedy. We welcome good faith amendments intended to improve the legislation. 
   But I beg my colleagues not to propose amendments designed to kill this bill by provoking a filibuster from one party or the other. If we cannot agree on every aspect of reform; if we have differences about what constitutes genuine reform, and we hold those differences honestly--so be it. Let us try to come to terms with those differences fairly. Let us find common ground and work together to adopt those basic reforms we can all agree on. That is what the sponsors of this legislation have attempted to do, and we welcome anyone's help to improve upon our proposal as long as that help is sincere and intended to reach the common goal of genuine campaign finance reform. 
   In closing, I reiterate that I believe we can work together. I believe the majority of the Members of this body realize that reform is necessary. I think we now have an opportunity to amend, to debate, and to come together. I hope we can achieve that goal. 
   In closing, I again thank my friend from the State of Wisconsin. My friend from the State of Wisconsin recently has felt a certain sense of loneliness because he has attempted to move this process forward in a fair, equitable, and reasonable fashion. The Senator from Wisconsin has shown his political courage. It has been a great honor and privilege for me to have the opportunity of working with him, and many others, in the cause of campaign reform. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. FEINGOLD addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Does the Senator yield the floor? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Recently there was a book written by Elizabeth Drew called ``The Corruption of American Politics.'' I commend it to the reading of the Senator from Kentucky. In chapter 4 titled ``The Money Culture,'' she says:  
   Indisputably, the greatest change in Washington over the past twenty-five years--in its culture, in the way it does business, and the ever-burgeoning amount of business transactions that go on here--has been in the preoccupation with money.  
   Striving for and obtaining money has become the predominant activity--and not just in electoral politics--and its effects are pernicious. The culture of money dominates Washington as never before; money now rivals or even exceeds power as the preeminent goal. It affects the issues raised and their outcome; it has changed employment patterns in Washington; it has transformed politics; and it has subverted values. It has led good people to do things that are morally questionable, if not reprehensible. It has cut a deep gash, if not inflicted a mortal wound, in the concept of public service.  
   That is basically what Elizabeth Drew, who has been around this town for many years, said in her book. She states:  
   Private interests have tried to influence legislative and administrative outcomes through the use of money for a long time. The great Daniel Webster was on retainer from the Bank of the United States and at the same time was one of its greatest defenders in the Congress. But never before in the modern age has political money played the pervasive role that it does now. By comparison, the Watergate period seems almost quaint. 
   There was a time when people came to Washington out of a spirit of public service and idealism. Engendering this spirit was one of John F. Kennedy's most important contributions. Then Richard Nixon, picking up from George Wallace, and then Ronald Reagan, in particular, derided ``federal bureaucrats.'' The spirit of public service was stepped on, but not entirely extinguished. 
   But more than ever, Washington has become a place where people come or remain in order to benefit financially from their government service. (A similar thing could be said of journalists--and nonjournalists fresh out of government service--who package themselves as writers, television performers, and highly paid speakers at conventions.)  
   I have for many years had a set of criteria indicating that which I have said we cannot, should not, abide. Perhaps a lot of it is because I am a member of authorizing committees. I took the floor here just a couple of hours ago to talk about $6.4 billion that was added to the Defense appropriations bill. I will have to get the statement again to refresh myself with the specific numbers, but $92 million was for military construction projects which had not been authorized--no hearing, nothing whatsoever that had to do with the authorizing followed by the appropriating process. 
   I worked with a number of organizations: Citizens Against Government Waste, Citizens For A Sound Economy, and other organizations in Washington that are watchdog organizations. We developed a set of criteria. Those criteria have to do with: Whether it was requested in the President's budget, whether there was an authorization, whether there was a hearing, et cetera. There are a number. They are on their way over, the criteria I have used for many years. 
   Because when you bypass the authorizing and appropriating process, you obviously do not, No. 1, abide by the prescribed way we are supposed to do business around here; but then it opens up to improper procedures. 
   We have 12,000 enlisted families on food stamps. Yet we will spend $92 million, and other funds, on programs that the Secretary of Defense says specifically are not of the priority on which to be spending money:  
   I have said for 10 years I have reviewed annual appropriations bills to determine whether they contain items that are low priority, unnecessary, or wasteful spending. In this process I have used five objective criteria to identify programs and projects that have not been appropriately reviewed in the normal merit-based prioritization process. 
   These criteria are: Unauthorized appropriations, unrequested locality-specific earmarks, research-facility-specific earmarks, and other earmarks that would circumvent the formal competitive award process, budget add-ons that would be subject to a budget point of order, transfer or disposal of Federal property or items under terms that circumvent existing law, and new items that were added in conference that were never considered in either bill in either House.  
   The web site goes on to say:  
   Senator MCCAIN's criteria are not intended to reflect a judgment on the merits of an item. They are designed to identify projects that have not been considered in an appropriate merit-based prioritization process.  
   I do not intend to let this debate, which is about banning soft money, get into some kind of personal discussion here. I simply will not do it, except to say that Elizabeth Drew has it right. Many other people who judge this town have it right. The fact is, there is a pernicious effect of money on the legislative process. 
   I refuse to, and would not in any way, say that any individual or person is guilty of corruption in a specific way, nor identify them, because that would defeat-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would like to finish. 
   That would defeat the purpose because, as I have said many times before, this system makes good people do bad things. It makes good people do bad things. That is to go around the process which is prescribed for the Senate--the Congress of the United States--to operate under. 
   When I go to San Diego and I meet enlisted people who are on active duty who are required to stand in line for food, for charity, and we are spending money on projects and programs that are unwarranted, unnecessary, and unauthorized, I will tell my friend from Kentucky, I get angry. 
   I do not know much about the background of the Senator from Kentucky or his priorities, but I have mine. One is that I am not going to stand by without getting very upset when young Americans who are serving this country are on food stamps while we are wasting $6.4 billion in pork barrel projects. 
   All I can say to the Senator from Kentucky, if he wants to engage in this kind of debate, I think it will be a waste of our 5 days of time. But I believe, as Elizabeth Drew has said, this system is wrong, it needs to be fixed, and the influence of special interests has a pernicious effect on the legislative process. 
   The Senator from Kentucky is entitled to his view that he does not agree with that, or obviously the Senator from Utah. That is my considered opinion. But I will state to the Senator from Kentucky now, I am not in the business of identifying individuals or attacking individuals. I am attacking a system. I am attacking a system that has to be fixed and that has caused 69 percent of young Americans between 18 and 35 to say they are disconnected from their Government, that caused in the 1998 election the lowest voter turnout in history of 18- to 26-year-olds. Those 18- to 26-year-olds were asked: Why didn't you vote? And they said they believe we do not represent them anymore, because they have lost confidence. They say they will not run for public office, that they believe we are corrupt. 
   It is the appearance of corruption that is causing young Americans to divorce themselves from the political process, refuse to run for public office, and there is poll after poll and data that will so reflect. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be glad to yield for question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. First of all, I have already responded to the Senator that I will not get into people's names. I will, indeed, repeat, again, to the Senator from the web site from which he is quoting. Here it is:  
   For 10 years, Senator MCCAIN has reviewed the annual appropriations bills to determine whether they contain items that are low priority, unnecessary, or wasteful spending. In this process, he has used five objective criteria.  
   And I go on to list them. That is why---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If the Senator from Kentucky will not accept that answer, there is no point in me continuing to answer. I have already answered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. No, that is not right. It is a system. It is a system that has violated the process and has therefore caused the American people to lose confidence and trust in the Government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I would not, I say to the Senator from Kentucky. He is entitled to his views, his opinions, and his conclusions. I am entitled to mine. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Yes, I will be glad to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be glad to respond to the Senator from Utah. In September 19, 1997, I wrote a letter to the Senator from Utah. I never received an answer. A year later, I came to the Senator from Utah and handed him a copy of the letter. The Senator 
   from Utah never answered. 
   Let me read parts from the letter to the Senator from Utah to remind him because he never answered the letter:  
   September 19, 1997, Honorable Robert F. Bennett, United States Senate, Washington, DC. 
   Dear Bob: I am writing about the recent efforts to add funds to appropriations measure for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. By my count, the Senate has approved earmarks in three of the appropriations bills, earmarking $14.8 million for next year alone to fund various activities related to planning and preparation for the Utah Olympics. These funds were not included in the FY 1998 budget request, and many were not considered during the Appropriations Committee's review of the bills. 
   Bob, you are aware of my long history of opposing location-specific earmarks of taxpayer dollars. We discussed several of these amendments when they were offered, and I explained why I was particularly opposed to earmarking funds for the Olympics. 
   I have to say that I am disappointed with the approach being taken to earmark funding for the Utah Olympics. In light of the Republicans' long-fought efforts to balance the budget and provide relief to American taxpayers, and with all of the concerns about lack of federal resources to ensure that our children and less fortunate citizens are not unduly harmed as we reduce government spending, I am surprised that you would earmark millions of dollars for a sporting event. And I fear this is just the beginning--  
   And those fears in 1997 were well justified.  
   --if the experience of the Atlanta Olympics is any indication.  
   Of course, I understand your desire, and that of your constituents, to ensure that transportation, security, communications, and other support for the 2002 Olympics is completed in an efficient and cost-effective manner. However, I find it disturbing that adding money for the Olympics would be your highest priority, at least according to your staff. 
   Randomly adding millions of dollars to the appropriations bills, without benefit of appropriate Administration or Congressional review, is not the way business is done in the Senate, nor is it an appropriate way to ensure we spend the taxpayers' dollars wisely. That is why I have opposed unauthorized and location-specific earmarks in an appropriations bill, whether for the Olympics or for any other defense or domestic expenditure. 
   If this process, to which I am unalterably opposed, continues and these funds do not go through the normal authorizing and appropriating process, then I will have to use whatever parliamentary means are available to me to prevent further unauthorized expenditures of taxpayer dollars, for whatever purposes. 
   Again, Bob, I recognize that proper preparation for the Olympics is vital to the success of the games. It seems to me, though, that the best course of action would be to require the U.S. Olympic Committee, in coordination with the Administration and Congress, to prepare and submit a comprehensive plan detailing, in particular, the funding anticipated to be required from the taxpayers for this event. As you may know, the Commerce Committee, which I chair, has jurisdiction over the activities of the U.S. Olympic Committee. I am willing to work with you, the Administration, and the Olympic Committee to devise such a plan, and I will hold hearings in the Committee as expeditiously as possible to review the plan and provide appropriate authorization for appropriations in support of an approved plan. 
   Please call me so that we can start work immediately to establish some predictability and rationality in the process of preparing for Olympics events in our country. 
   Sincerely, JOHN MCCAIN.   
   That was written to you in September of 1997, a little over 2 years ago. Since I received no response whatsoever, a year later I handed you a copy of this letter asking for a response. I know how busy you are, but I never got an answer. 
   But what I did see was exactly what I was warning about in 1997; that is, these unauthorized, unappropriated moneys going into an enterprise--which since then we have found out has maybe had some other problems associated with it, which my committee is going to have hearings about. 
   So my answer to you, sir, is that even in light of the fact that I wrote you a letter and then personally handed you a copy and beseeched you to go through the normal process of authorization and appropriation as prescribed by the rules of the Congress of the United States, you refused to do so; therefore, I identified it on my web site as not meeting the criteria that I mentioned before. 
   Now, I will repeat again what Elizabeth Drew wrote in her book that this process of money has done great damage to all of us and has had a pernicious and corrupting effect on the process. 
   But for you to say that this clearly unauthorized, unacceptable procedure, at least as far as my taxpayers are concerned, because the people of Arizona would at least like to have a hearing before their tax dollars go to the State of Utah--this is, in my view, something that we have to obviously fix. 
   I do not know if we will ever stop this practice of earmarking and pork barreling, but I will never stop resisting it. And I will never stop trying to see that the taxpayers of America receive an open and fair hearing before--I have forgotten. We will total it up for the RECORD later on how much you stuffed into the appropriations bills without a single hearing. We will total it up. In fact, I think it was--oh, yes, the GAO estimates that the Federal funding and support plan for the 2002 Olympics and Paralympics in Salt Lake City totals more than $1.9 billion in Federal funding. 
   I am on the oversight committee. We have never had a hearing on that oversight because it has never been requested. It has been stuffed into an appropriations bill, sometimes even in a conference report. I would think that the Senator from Utah might think that is not a good way to do business in the Congress of the United States, and it then gives rise--then gives rise--to the suspicion that young Americans have about the way we do business and whether they are well represented. 
   I go to schools in Arizona. I say to the schoolchildren, Do you know that $1.9 billion of your money and your parents' money is going to support the 2002 Olympics and Paralympics, without a hearing, without a decision as to whether it is needed or not, without any kind of scrutiny; that there is a Senator who goes through the appropriations process, puts it in an appropriations bill, and it is a line item that we read about? 
   Then maybe you can understand a little better why there is this suspicion, I would say to the Senator from  Utah. In fact, I would hope the Senator from Utah would, as a result of this 
   dialogue, understand why people to whom I talk all over America are so upset about the way we are doing business here in Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield the floor. 
   Mr. BENNETT addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Does the Senator yield the floor? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I would like the floor to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, first of all, the Senator is incorrect. I did not accuse him of being corrupt. No apology or withdrawal is warranted. 
   Secondly, the Senator engaged in a continuous practice of violating the rules of the Senate, which require authorization and then appropriation, for several years now. I hope that the Senator, as a product of this debate, will seek an authorization for the $1.9 billion which the GAO has identified as going to the Olympics. The Olympics have had a lot of problems in addition to that. I hope the Senator will address those as well. 
   The third point is, indeed, banks and securities gave $14 million in soft money. They got, in the last tax cut, $38 billion in tax breaks. 
   Restaurants and hotels gave $3 million in soft money; they got $14 billion in tax breaks. 
   The oil and gas industry gave $19 million in soft money; they got $5 billion in tax breaks. 
   Between 1991 and 1997, the chemical, iron, and steel manufacturing industries gave $22.2 million in soft money to the political parties. The 1999 tax bill included a provision to eliminate the alternative minimum tax, which will allow these industries to completely eliminate their tax liability in any one year. If the bill had not been vetoed, this single change would have saved these industries $7.9 billion over an 8-year period or almost $1 billion a year. 
   Over the last decade, the oil industry has given $22 million in soft money donations to the political parties. What did they get? The 1999 tax bill included a provision to remove the current limit of 35 percent on Federal tax credits that oil companies can take for taxes they pay to foreign countries. If the bill had not been vetoed, the provision would have allowed oil companies to take much larger credits against their tax liability, saving them $800 million a year; return on investment, 3,600 percent. 
   Between 1995 and 1998, the restaurant and hotel industry gave $4.3 million in soft money to the political parties. 
   The 1999 tax bill included a provision to increase tax deductibility of business meals to 60 percent, although the industry wanted 100 percent. If the bill had not been vetoed, this provision reviving the three-martini power lunch would have cost taxpayers $4 billion over the next 10 years. The list goes on and on, I say to the Senator from Utah. 
   Now, the specific language says in the appropriations bill:  
   Special interests unlimited campaign contributions were a key ingredient in the pork stew that is choking the American people.  
   They were a key ingredient in all of these that I described. Perhaps they were not in the case of the Senator from Utah. Perhaps the Senator from Utah just decided to violate the rules of the Senate, and he is free to do that, although I will do everything in my power to see that this $1.9 billion is restrained. 
   Now, I finally want to mention an incident. I was in the Republican caucus when a certain Senator stood up and said it was OK for you not to vote against the tobacco bill because the tobacco companies will run ads in our favor. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Does the Senator yield the floor? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I have responded. It is time to move on. If the Senator from Kentucky has an amendment concerning this issue, I will be glad to address it. I have responded, and I will continue to respond. I am trying to change a system that corrupts all of us. I believe there is ample evidence, as I have cited, of this system's pernicious effect, in my view, and in the view of most objective observers. I am not going to let this debate, in the few days we have, get bogged down on this issue. It is time we move on with the amending process. I have responded. I have said to the Senator from Utah and the Senator from Kentucky that I am fighting a system here. I will continue to fight that system, with its pernicious effects on the American people. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. The Senator is incorrect. Will the Senator yield? The Senator is incorrect. He is incorrect in his statement. The statement says ``a key ingredient''--the ``key ingredient.'' It doesn't say that it is the cause of it. So I hope the Senator will at least quote my web site accurately. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator yield for one question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I know the Senator is aware, but for clarification, on my web site I state the general proposition that soft money creates pork barrel spending. I then identify a recent appropriations bill as an example of how big the problem of pork barrel spending is. Nowhere should it be interpreted that every single one of those pork barrel projects are as a result of soft money. But they are a result of a violation of criteria that I have held for 10 years, which the Senator from Utah seems to think is OK, which bypasses the authorizing process. I am sure the Senator from Wisconsin appreciates it. 
   Who is corrupted by this system? All of us are corrupted by it because money buys access and access is influence. The object is not to get into a vendetta about who is corrupted and who is not because the system is what needs to be fixed. We would never fix the system if I got into a business of finger pointing, name calling. For 10 years I have identified pork barrel spending which violates a process and criteria set up, not by me, but by the Citizens Against Government Waste, Citizens For a Sound Economy, National Taxpayers Union, and other objective and respected watchdog organizations. 
   Finally, I would say I hope the Senator from Wisconsin will ask the Senator--I am ready to accept his amendment by voice vote. I hope the Senator from Kentucky appreciates the fact that we entered into this agreement and did not hold up the Senate so we could have an amending process going back and forth on both sides of this issue. I hope that is what will be adhered to. 
   I also would say it is customary in this body to recognize one Member on this side of the aisle and another Member on the other side of the aisle, with the exception of the distinguished majority leader and Democrat leader. So I hope we could get some comity in this process, as we had intended to do at the beginning as part of the agreement. 
   I ask my friend from Wisconsin if he agrees with that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator yield for another question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Is the Senator aware this is a straw man because what I said, and I repeat for about the tenth time:  
   Special interests and unlimited contributions were a key ingredient--  
   And then I listed a whole bunch. I have listed for 10 years on my web site unauthorized appropriations to which I have taken great offense. I have argued that they are wrong. I will continue to argue they are wrong, and if the Senator from Utah wants to somehow interpret the fact that soft money is a key element or is not a key element in his particular appropriation, that is fine. I am telling the Senator from Utah that I listed a lot of projects. Some fall into the category of unauthorized appropriations. 
   I have said it now about five times, and I hope we can move forward. We only have 5 days of debate. I hope we can move forward with various amendments and allow other Members to make statements; otherwise, we rapidly approach the appearance of a filibuster which was not the agreement that Senator FEINGOLD and I entered into with the majority leader when we began. There are Senators who have been waiting to give statements. There are Senators who have been waiting to give speeches. 
   And we have massaged this issue rather significantly. 
   Again, I ask the Senator from Wisconsin if he agrees with me, the way we usually function in the consideration of legislation is proponents of the legislation have an amendment and then opponents have an opportunity to propose an amendment. We had understood that would be the way we would proceed. 
   Is that the perception of the Senator from Wisconsin of this agreement, which was really a gentleman's agreement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield to me for one question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in response to the Senator from Utah, the argument I made both on my web site and today is that I believe that part of the problem--indeed, a key ingredient of wasteful spending and special interest tax breaks--is the effect of soft money on the legislative process. Not that every bit of pork that Members secure is caused by soft money, but in the aggregate, wasteful spending is caused by, among other things, soft money. 
   Let me offer my colleagues a definition of ``corruption'' from Webster's dictionary. Corruption: The impairment of integrity, virtue, or moral principle. 
   Note, this definition does not say that corruption occurs only when laws are broken. I have already cited, as has the Senator from Wisconsin, the large amount of soft money given to both parties by various industries and the aggregate amount of tax breaks those industries receive. I believe, even if some of my colleagues do not, that these amounts have impaired our integrity. I believe that as strongly as I believe anything. Unlimited amounts of money given to political campaigns have impaired our integrity as political parties and as a legislative institution. 
   As the Senator from Wisconsin has noted, we are not accusing Members of  violating Federal bribery statutes. No, we are here because there no longer is a law controlling the vast amounts of money that I believe are impairing our integrity. In the immortal words of the Vice President: ``There is no controlling legal authority.'' 
   I watched very closely as the 1996 telecommunications deregulation bill became everything but deregulatory and led to far less competition than it was intended to engender and the consequent increase in cable rates, telephone rates, et cetera. I believe soft money played some role in that; again, not in a 
   way that fits within a legal definition of ``bribery,'' but in a way the vast majority of Americans believe is an impairment of our integrity, and I include myself in that indictment. 
   That is the problem I am trying to address in this legislation and no attack, no amount of head-in-the-sand pretense that soft money does not affect legislation will cause me to desist in my efforts. 
   I will close with one observation. If special interests did not believe their millions of dollars in donations buy them special consideration in the legislative process, then those special interests that have a fiduciary responsibility to their stockholders would not give us that money, would they? 
   Those interests enjoy greater influence here than the working men and women who cannot buy our attention but are sometimes affected adversely by the laws we pass. 
   To me that seems to be a good working definition of the impairment of our integrity which, as I noted, is Webster's definition of ``corruption.'' 
   My question to the Senator from Tennessee is, indeed, is there anything that would be a violation of law that we do in any way in our pursuit of money today? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. May I answer? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I say to my friend from Kentucky, either the Senator from Kentucky did not listen to what I said or doesn't care about what I said. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-29-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I repeat again, the definition of ``corruption'' from Webster's dictionary: The impairment of integrity, virtue, or moral principle. 
   I repeat again, we have impaired our integrity when we convey to the American people the impression that soft money distorts the legislative process, such as it did, in my view, in the 1996 Telecommunications Deregulation Act, with the protection of special interests, which caused increases in cable rates, phone rates, and led to mergers rather than competition in the industry. 
   So this system has impaired our integrity. That does not mean bribery laws were broken necessarily. They may have been. I don't know. But I do know that our integrity has been impaired. And whether that is the view of the Senator from Kentucky or the view of the Senator from Utah or my view, it is the view of the American people. That is substantiated by polling data and personal experience. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-30-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will repeat again. I believe that a system of unlimited soft money in the American political process has impaired our integrity because we are now held in such low esteem by Americans because they believe we no longer respond to their hopes and dreams and aspirations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-31-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Could I just---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-32-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Is the Senator aware that, at least in the words of the Senator from Utah, it isn't just the appearance of corruption. The Senator from Utah pointed out three cases--I can recall two: Mr. Tamraz and the Indians. Mr. Tamraz said: Next time I am going to pay $600,000--where, at least if I understood the comments of the Senator from Utah, there were actual acts of corruption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-33-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. As far as I know, it is not against the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-34-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. It should be against the law. The point is, apparently it is not because Mr. Tamraz was not prosecuted, at least under this Justice Department. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-35-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. It is not just the fact that there is the appearance of corruption. I think most Americans believe that there was actual corruption in that case and the Indian case. What we are fighting against here in the soft money is not only 
   against allegations but also reality. Those examples the Senator from Utah pointed out are how terrible the situation can become. When a poor, impoverished Indian tribe is asked to give money in order to have their voice heard in Washington, I hope that would compel the Senator from Kentucky to rethink his position concerning soft money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-36-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-37-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator from Minnesota, in his opening statement, used the word ``systemic corruption'' associated with the present campaign finance system. Since I have been challenged on comments such as that, would the Senator mind defining what he is saying there? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-38-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator respond to an additional question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-39-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator for his eloquent answer. 
   Secondly, would the Senator be willing to name names as to examples of that corruption? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-40-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-41-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Is the Senator familiar with the tax bill of $792 billion that passed through the Senate, and then there was going to be a tidal wave of public opinion that would force the President of the United States to sign it? 
   Does the Senator remember there were a number of special tax breaks in that bill--one for a corporation that turns chicken litter into energy and another for oil and gas, and even for people who make tackle boxes? 
   Does the Senator remember that those tax breaks would take effect immediately upon the signature of the President of the United States and that there were provisions to repeal the marriage penalty and others that would help average working Americans who don't make big political contributions, yet those tax breaks would not kick in until well into the next century? 
   Is the Senator familiar with those provisions of the tax bill, and, if so, what conclusions does he draw? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-42-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Did the Senator dare to use the word ``corruption''? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-43-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-44-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Does the Senator think if he had a more pleasing personality and shaved his beard he would get a more positive response? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-45-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-46-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-47-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I will say to my colleague from California I will be very brief on my statement on the amendment. I know she has been waiting a long time and has shown patience. I will be brief on this amendment because I know she wants to speak on this important issue. I will take about 2 minutes to explain the amendment. 
   Mr. President, the amendment is simple. It simply calls for greater disclosure of campaign funds. I begin this discussion by noting this is not an original idea. It is language borrowed directly from legislation offered in the House of Representatives by our colleague, Congressman DOOLITTLE. 
   Specifically, this amendment requires campaign contribution disclosures made by political committees under State or local law to also be submitted to the FEC. Additionally, all campaign contributions made to political committees within 90 days of an election must be reported within 24 hours of receipt and the campaign contribution reports then be made available on the Internet by the FEC. 
   These provisions ensure the public knows who is contributing to campaigns in the closing days of an election and how much is being contributed. These added protections will allow the voting public to decide for themselves whether a campaign or an election is being unduly influenced by special interests. 
   I do not think these disclosure provisions will pose any unnecessary hardship on political parties or committees. This amendment provides simply for additional information about State and local elections to be made available quickly through the Internet and by the FEC. It ensures a common data bank of information about contributions so that interested voters can get updated information in one place and, as an election draws near, with close to realtime disclosures. 
   I firmly believe the public has a right to know, and tighter disclosure requirements will provide important information to the voters which will allow each voter to draw his or her conclusion about whether the effect of the contribution is--dare I say it? --corruption. But unlike the Doolittle bill, I believe these provisions add to the underlying bill and should not be considered a substitute. The amendment makes the bill better, and I hope my colleagues will support it. 
   In summary, the Internet has done enormously beneficial things. As far as the political process is concerned, it has provided a tremendous way for us to receive on-time information. We can, hopefully, utilize this incredible technological marvel to allow Americans who are interested to know literally within 24 hours of a contribution whom it was from and the amount of it. 
   I also believe we can do the same thing at a later time on expenditures as well because the Internet has provided us a great opportunity. Knowledge and information is obviously power and will help our voters understand the issues to make a more informed judgment. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Several Senators addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Would the Senator repeat the unanimous consent request? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I don't object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Parliamentary inquiry: Will the Chair illuminate me on whose time is being used at this time and whose time is remaining so I might understand the parliamentary situation? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator from Washington is speaking. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am sorry to interrupt the Senator from Washington, but I don't quite understand. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Chair, and I thank the Senator from Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I wish to take a minute before my colleague from Wisconsin speaks for the purpose of asking unanimous consent to have printed in the RECORD a letter from the American Bar Association and a letter from the League of Women Voters. I so ask. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the letter is from Mr. Robert Evans, of the American Bar Association:  
   I write on behalf of the American Bar Association to urge you to support reform that will strengthen the electoral process; reduce the influence of special interests; allow members and candidates to devote more time to substantive issues.......  
   They support full disclosure, reasonable contribution limits, adjusted and indexed for inflation. The ABA opposes campaigns of soft money, and also public participation of legal permanent residents. 
   Also, the League of Women Voters, referred to earlier by the Senator from Kentucky, says that Senator MCCONNELL's statement on the floor suggested the League of Women Voters is in support of his position. On the contrary. The League's position is opposite that of Senator MCCONNELL, who in their words ``opposes any meaningful campaign finance reform.'' 
   They support comprehensive campaign finance reform. In fairness, the League of Women Voters thinks the Senator from Wisconsin and I are now too weak in our approach. 
   To assume somehow that as one may have in listening to the statement of the Senator from Kentucky this morning that the League of Women Voters was in agreement with this position is not the fact as demonstrated in this letter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I say to my friend from Nevada, I am from a neighboring State and I paid a lot of attention to that race. It was a very close and hard-fought race--I mean this in all due respect--in what is a relatively small State, population-wise, although dynamically growing. I think percentage-wise, it is the fastest growing State in America. 
   I believe--I may be wrong--it was about $10 million each. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Could I ask my friend, some of the estimates I heard on the independent campaign expenditures were as high as the $20 million spent by both you and your opponent?  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I say to my friend from Nevada, it is a compelling argument for reform. I have a lot of friends who live in your State. In all due respect to the quality of the commercials that were run during that campaign, I heard many friends of mine who live in Nevada say they had enough, considering they were inundated--for how long? The campaign went on for a year and a half? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The unanimous consent agreement said I had 5 minutes. I yielded those 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yielded my time. I do not wish to speak on the pending legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today on behalf of myself, Senator CAMPBELL and Senator INOUYE to introduce the Indian Tribal Government Unemployment Compensation Act Tax Relief Amendments of 1999. 
   This bill would correct a serious oversight in the way the Internal Revenue Code treats Indian tribal governments for unemployment tax purposes under the unique, State-Federal program authorized by the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). It would clarify existing tax statutes so that tribal governments are treated just as State and local units of governments are treated for unemployment tax purposes. 
   It is well-settled that tribal governments are not taxable entities under the Federal Tax Code because of their governmental status. But in recent years, both the Internal Revenue service and the U.S. Department of Labor have begun to advance an interpretation of FUTA that is particularly burdensome to Indian tribal governments. 
   The IRS has begun to insist on collecting the Federal portion of the FUTA tax from tribal governmental employers. The IRS rationale is that because the FUTA statute expressly exempts charitable organizations and all State and local units of government from paying the Federal portion of the FUTA tax, but does not expressly mention tribal governments, it must collect the Federal portion of the tax from tribal employers. 
   The Labor Department, for its part, several years ago issued an opinion declaring that State unemployment funds may not treat tribal government employers like other governmental units and accord them ``reimburser'' status. The Department's rationale was that FUTA statute does not expressly authorize tribal governments to participate on a reimbursable basis, and so State Unemployment Funds were prohibited from allowing them to do so. 
   The Congressional Research Service conducted a study at my request in the early 1990s which revealed that FUTA was being applied to tribal government employers differently throughout our Nation. Some were allowed to participate, even as reimbursers. Others were denied participation but charged the full tax without getting any benefit whatsoever. The recent actions by the IRS and the Labor Department have only served to make the application of FUTA to tribal government employers even more confusing, contradictory, and unfair. 
   FUTA involves a joint Federal-State taxation system that levies two taxes on most employers: an 0.8 percent unemployment tax and a State unemployment tax ranging up to more than 9 percent of a portion of an employer's payroll. Since its enactment in the 1930s, FUTA has treated foreign, Federal, State, and local government employers differently from private commercial business employers. It exempts all foreign, Federal, State, and local government employers from the 0.8 percent Federal FUTA tax. It exempts foreign and Federal government employers from State unemployment programs and allows State and local government employers to pay lower State unemployment taxes as reimbursers. FUTA also treats income tax-exempt charitable organizations 
   the same as State and local governments. All other private sector employers pay both the Federal and State FUTA tax rates. The FUTA statute does not expressly include tribal government employers within the definition of governmental employers. 
   This legislation will expressly authorize tribal governments, like State and local units of government and charitable organizations, to contribute to a State fund on a reimbursable basis for unemployment benefits actually  paid out. Private sector employers typically must pay an unemployment tax in advance. The rationale for reimburser status is that governmental employers, like tribes and States, have a far more stable employment environment than that of the private sector, and that governmental revenue should not be committed to such purposes in advance of when the obligation to pay arises. 
   Let me be clear, this bill would ensure that tribes participate in the unemployment compensation system. Some now do not do so. Their participation would be on the same terms as other governments. Tribal government employers would pay for every dime that is paid out in benefits to workers they lay off. But the bill would clarify the law to ensure that tribal government employers do not pay more than what is paid, a ``reimburser'' status long accorded all other governmental employers and tax-exempt organization employers. 
   The bill I am introducing today would permanently resolve this matter across the Nation for every Indian tribal government. Unless this problem is resolved, many former tribal government employees will continue to be denied benefits by State unemployment funds and many tribal government employers will be charged at much higher rates than are all other governmental and tax-exempt employers. I believe tribal governments should be treated no differently than all other governments under our tax code, and that Indian and non-Indian workers who are separated from tribal governmental employment should be included within our Nation's comprehensive unemployment benefit system. This bill will go a long way toward ensuring mandatory participation by tribal governments on a fair and equitable basis in the Federal-State unemployment fund system. I can think of nothing more fair than the approach clarified in this bill. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. 
   Mr. President, the Joint Committee on Taxation, through the Congressional Budget Office, estimates the cost of this bill to be minimal, about ten million dollars over a ten-year period. The cost to implement these provisions in the first few years will eventually be offset over the ten-year period, resulting in a negligible effect on the Federal treasury. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991014</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, we must take swift action to remedy a serious safety consequence which resulted upon enactment of H.R. 2084, the Fiscal Year 2000 Transportation Appropriations Bill, P.L. 106-69 . 
   Signed into law last Saturday, section 338 of this law prevents the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) from expending any funds for motor carrier safety activities. Although the new law allows the Secretary to transfer the safety functions elsewhere, which has already occurred, there are some safety activities solely vested in FHWA and the Secretary is precluded  by law from permitting any other entity to carry out those duties. In particular, the Department's safety enforcement program has nearly come to a halt as a result of the Appropriators' language. 
   We must restore the Department's ability to fully enforce our federal motor carrier safety regulations. Specifically, we need to restore the department's authority to assess civil penalties when safety violations have been identified. Currently, the Department can continue to carry out inspections, but in most cases has no authority to require a carrier to take corrective action. This is like a police officer pulling a driver over for speeding, but not being able to write a ticket. 
   Last Mother's Day, 22 people lost their lives when a charter bus ran off the road and crashed. After the accident, the Federal Highway Administration imposed the maximum fine against the company that it is statutorily authorized to assess. If we do not act, the fine will be held in abeyance. How can this be justified? I hope the Appropriators are finally the full consequences of this provision which was opposed by the authorizing Committees of jurisdiction. 
   The DOT Inspector General has repeatedly stated that strong enforcement with meaningful sanctions is needed at the Office of Motor Carriers. As long as this provision is allowed to stand, there will be no fines assessed against violators and efforts to strengthen Federal enforcement of motor carrier safety laws will be rendered meaningless. 
   Mr. President, the Senate Commerce Committee has been working to improve truck safety. Many serious safety gaps have been identified and I believe we need to transfer authority for safety to a separate Motor Carrier Safety Administration. But, we need to act responsibly. We need to allow the authorization process to proceed. We need to put drivers and passengers ahead of unreviewed, unexamined quick-fix gimmicks that have resulted in very disturbing and likely unintended consequences. 
   Last year, a similar attempt was made by the House Appropriations Committee to strip FHWA from its authority over motor carrier safety matters. As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, which has jurisdiction over most federal transportation safety policies, including motor carrier and passenger vehicle safety, I opposed this proposal, in part because it had never been considered by the authorizing committees of jurisdiction. The provision was ultimately not enacted and I pledged that I would work to address motor carrier safety concerns in this Congress. I have lived up to this commitment. 
   At my request, the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation conducted a comprehensive analysis of federal motor carrier safety activities. Serious safety gaps have been identified, and as such, the authorizing Committees of jurisdiction have been working to move legislation to improve motor carrier safety. The Commerce Committee held a hearing on my specific safety proposal and we expect to mark up that measure during the next Executive session. Indeed, we are working to move legislation through the regular legislative process. 
   Public safety could be seriously jeopardized if Congress does not take quick action to restore federal motor carrier safety enforcement activities. I am aware safety improvements are necessary. I am working to pass those needed improvements. But halting motor carrier enforcement activities is clearly not in the interest of truck and bus safety. 
   Mr. President, we cannot allow the destruction of the Federal government's motor carrier safety enforcement program. I fully support passage of H.R. 3036 to restore the Department's truck safety enforcement programs. I urge my colleague to support this much needed bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I give due credit to the conferees for their hard work to complete action on the Agriculture Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2000 which supports the nation's farming economy and federal programs through the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). This year's agriculture appropriations bill is also intended to provide needed government aid to farmers and their families who have suffered critical losses due to severe drought and difficult market conditions. However, with much regret, I must vote against this legislation. 
   I have several concerns with this final conference agreement. 
   First, it contains $253 million in earmarks and set-asides for towns, universities, research institutes, and a myriad of other entities that were included in this bill without consideration in the normal merit-based review process. This is $82 million more than was included in the Senate version of the bill. Clearly, the House had to get its turn at the trough. 
   For example, $1.75 million is provided for manure handling and distribution in five states, including Mississippi, Iowa, Nebraska, Texas and Arizona. Why these five states have a monopoly on manure problems in our nation is not adequately explained in this report, nor is a rationale provided as to why an earmark of $200,000 is provided for sunflower research in Fargo, North Dakota. Unless weather conditions are anticipated to change dramatically, it is difficult to fathom why spending thousands of dollars on sunflower research in a state known for severe weather conditions is more critical than other farming emergencies. 
   No other clear explanations are provided for earmarking $750,000 for the U.S. Plant Stress & Water Conservation Lab in Lubbock, Texas, as well as $1,000,000 for peanut quality research in Athens, GA; $500,000 for fish diseases in Auburn, AL; and, $64,000 for urban pests in Georgia. These may very well be meritorious projects, but I must question again why these specific projects and localities are singled out for direct earmarked funding rather than undergoing a competitive review. 
   In addition to direct earmarked funding, the conferees have included very blatant directive language which singles out specific projects in various states for special consideration for grant funding, loans or technical assistance from USDA. With these actions, even the limited funding made available to USDA for competitive grant and loan assistance is not fairly distributed since the conferees have included such directives to steer the agency away from considering many other meritorious projects that are equally in need around the country. 
   Another problem with this spending bill is the inclusion of language which provides for an exception for a single producer from the state of Nevada from pending federal milk marketing orders to be implemented by the USDA. This provision will exclude a single dairy producer in Clark County, Nevada from the proposed new Arizona/Las Vegas Marketing area when USDA's rules take effect, thereby preventing this single producer from competing fairly with the rest of the milk industry. 
   As many of my colleagues are aware, there are few issues which cause as much controversy and divisiveness as proposed milk marketing restructuring proposals. Yet, without any debate, language was included in the Senate bill, without notice or debate, to protect this single dairy producer while the rest of the nation will be forced to comply. Retaining this provision in the conference report is a serious infraction of out obligation to treat all interests fairly and to abide by the Senate's  rules which preclude legislation on appropriations bills except when approved by a super-majority. 
   Mr. President, finally, I am concerned that this legislation contains $1.2 billion more than the Senate bill in emergency aid for farmers. The House bill contained no such funding at all. 
   Late last year, the Congress provided $5.9 billion in emergency disaster assistance for farmers as part of the FY 1999 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Earlier this year, we provided another $574 million in the emergency supplemental appropriations bill. I opposed both of those bills, in part because the bills contained excessive amounts of pork-barrel spending but also because of the use of the ``emergency'' designation for large amounts of non-emergency purposes, some of which was included in the farmer aid package. 
   While I understand and sympathize with the plight of America's farmers who face economic hardship due to a wide variety of natural disasters, I cannot support the designation of the entire $8.7 billion in assistance to farmers as an emergency. 
   The Congress has certain rules that apply to its budget process. One of those rules states that, once a Senate-House conference convenes, negotiations are limited to only the funding and legislative provisions that exist in either bill. Adding funding that is outside the ``scope'' of the conference is not in order, nor is the inclusion of legislative provisions that were not in either the Senate- or House-passed bills. 
   Once again, the appropriators have deviated from the established process in agreeing on the provisions in this conference report by adding another $1.2 billion in emergency funding to the bill--funding that was considered by neither the House nor the Senate--just the appropriators. That $1.2 billion for crop disaster loss payments that was added to the emergency farm aid package may very well be needed by some of our nation's farmers. But its inclusion at the last minute defeats the entire concept of fiscal responsibility, which is premised on the full Congress debating budget priorities, not just the appropriators. 
   There were other last-minute add-ons in the conference which were not included in the Senate or House bill, including: $2 million for water and waste forgiveness loans; $15 million for Norton Sound Fisheries failure in Alaska; $56 million for administrative costs associated with managing emergency asssistance programs; and, an entirely new title to the bill, Title IX, which contains 25 pages of legislation to establish a new mandatory price reporting system for various livestock. While this legislation originated in the 
   Senate, it was never called up for debate or a vote. 
   This last provision was never offered as an amendment on the Senate floor during consideration of the Agriculture Appropriations bill, probably because it would have been ruled out of order since it is legislation that is not supposed to be included on an appropriations bill. Instead, it was simply inserted into the appropriations bill, behind closed doors, without debate. 
   American taxpayers have to give up their hard-earned tax dollars to pay for these last-minute tactics by the Appropriations Committees. Clearly, Congress appears to favor spending that benefits the special interests of a few, rather than spend the taxpayers' dollars responsibly and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans. 
   Let me state again that I support federal assistance for farmers and others in need, but only when decisions to spend tax dollars for such aid are considered fairly and truly help those in need. But when we continue the shameful and provincial practice of padding appropriations bills with excessive amounts of dubious emergency spending and special-interest pork-barrel projects, we are short-changing the taxpayers as well as our agricultural industry. This bill may help some farmers and producers who are truly in dire need of federal assistance, but we are harming those in the agriculture industry who are trying to follow established guidelines to qualify for other types of non-emergency assistance. 
   This bill designates $8.7 billion as emergency spending for FY 2000--money that can only come from the non-Social Security surplus. The Defense Appropriations bill contains another $7.2 billion in emergency spending, which I will also oppose. Together, we are spending almost $16 billion in emergency spending, but, Mr. President, the non-Social Security surplus is only estimated to be $14 billion. That means, pure and simple, that if we approve these two bills with their emergency funding, we will once again be dipping into the Social Security surplus to pay for the continued operations of the federal government. 
   Already this year, the Senate has approved appropriations bills or conference agreements containing almost $10.5 billion in wasteful and unnecessary spending. Surely, among these billions of dollars, there are at least a few programs that we could all agree are lower priority than desperately needed aid for America's farmers. Surely, in the voluminous lists of billions of dollars of pork projects, there are a few that the Congress would be willing to give up to ensure that we not once again dip into the Social Security Trust Fund--a Fund financed by the payroll taxes of American workers who are counting on their money being available to help them through their retirement years. 
   This bill demonstrates that the Congress cares more about taking care of special interests than it does about American families. It is the taxpayers who have to shoulder the burden to pay for the pork-barrel spending in this appropriations conference report and the others that will follow, and I will not vote to place that burden on American families. 
   The full list I have compiled of the objectionable provisions in this final conference report will be available on my Senate webpage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I mention to the majority leader it is now nearly 7:25 p.m. and at the request of the majority leader and the Senator from Kentucky, he wants to begin the debate and discussion on this very important issue. The agreement that the majority leader and I have is we will have 5 days of debate and discussion. I certainly hope he doesn't consider starting at 7:25 as a day of the debate and discussion. I ask him that. 
   Second, this is a very important issue. Even the staff is gone. Most Members have gone. The Senate majority leader knows that. Tomorrow we have scheduled a DOD discussion and vote which would be the first interruption--although we have just gotten started--followed by a vote on the Department of Defense appropriations bill. That could have been scheduled tonight and the vote have taken place. 
   I hope the majority leader will understand that I will not make an opening statement tonight. I will wait until tomorrow so I have the attention of my colleagues. If the Senator from Kentucky wants to make his statement, that is fine. I know from discussions with the Senator from Wisconsin he chooses to do the same thing. 
   I don't think an issue such as this should be initiated at 7:30 in the evening. However, I want to assure Senator LOTT that, once we have opening statements and once we get into the amending process and votes, I will be glad to stay as late as is necessary every night including all through the weekend, if necessary. 
   I don't think it is appropriate for anyone to say we demand opening statements tonight on the issue, and then tomorrow morning we go back to another bill off of the issue at hand. I hope the majority leader, who has been very cooperative in helping me and has been very cooperative in bringing up this issue, understands my point of view on this particular issue. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, let me say to the majority leader, I am in deep and sincere appreciation of his efforts to resolve all of these issues and the pending legislation. I remind him, however, that some months ago we did enter into an agreement that we would have 5 days of debate and amending on the bill. I know the majority leader will stick to that agreement. Starting at 7:30 at night is not, obviously, a day of debate and discussion. I understand we may have to be interrupted. However, I also say again we expect to have the agreement adhered to. 
   I am deeply concerned about nuclear waste and religious freedom and all of the other issues, but we did have an agreement on this particular issue. I intend to see that we can do our best to adhere to that agreement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991013</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator from Mississippi. I am glad to entertain whatever proposal the Senator from Kentucky has at this time. I intend, along with the Senator from Wisconsin, to wait until tomorrow for our  opening statements. I know there are a number of other Senators who want to make opening statements on this very important issue. 
   I am sure whatever agreement the Senator from Kentucky and I, along with the Senator from Wisconsin, might want to enter into would clearly take into consideration that there will be a number of opening statements that a number of Senators will have to make. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my very grave concerns over the path down which we are heading. The United States Senate is on the verge of voting down a treaty the intent of which is consistent with U.S. national security objectives, but the letter and timing of which are fraught with serious implications for our security over the next decade. 
   Mr. President, I will vote against ratifying the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. This is not a vote I take lightly. I am not ideologically opposed to arms control, having voted to ratify the START Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention. But, my concerns about the flaws in this Treaty's drafting and in the administration's plan for  maintaining the viability of the stockpile leave me no other choice. 
   On October 5, Henry Kissinger, John Deutch and Brent Scowcroft wrote to the majority and minority leaders stating their serious concerns with the Senate's voting on the treaty so far in advance of our being able to implement its provisions and relying solely on the Stockpile Stewardship Program. They noted that ``......few, if any, of the benefits envisaged by the treaty's advocates could be realized by Senate ratification now. At the same time, there could be real costs and risks to a broad range of national security interests--including our nonproliferation objectives--if [the] Senate acts prematurely.'' These are sage words that should not be taken lightly by either party in the debate on ratification. 
   In the post-cold-war era, a strong consensus exists that proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is our single greatest national security concern. Unfortunately, a ban on nuclear testing, especially when verification issues are so poorly addressed, as in this treaty, will not prevent other countries from developing nuclear weapons. A number of countries have made major strides in developing nuclear weapons without testing. South Africa and Pakistan both built nuclear stockpiles without testing; North Korea may very well have one or two crude nuclear weapons sufficient for its purposes; and Iraq was perilously close to becoming a nuclear state at the time it invaded Kuwait. Iran has an active nuclear weapons program, and Brazil and Argentina were far along in their programs before they agreed to terminate them. Testing is not necessary to have very good confidence that a first generation nuclear weapon will work, as the detonation over Hiroshima, utilizing a design that had never been tested, demonstrated more than half-a-century ago. 
   Whenever an arms control agreement is debated, the issue of verification rightly assumes center stage. That is entirely appropriate, as the old adage that arms control works best when it is needed least continues to hold true. That the leaders of Great Britain, France, and Germany support ratification is less important than what is going on inside the heads of the leaders of Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, and North Korea. We don't need arms control agreements with our friends; we pursue arms control as a way of minimizing the threat from those countries that may not have our national interests at heart. Some of the countries with active nuclear weapons programs clearly fall into that category. On that count, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty falls dangerously short. 
   In order to fully comprehend the complexity of the verification issue, it is important to understand the distinction between monitoring and verifying. Monitoring is a technical issue. It is the use of a variety of means of gather information--in other words, detecting that an event took place. Verification, however, is a political process. 
   Even if we assume that compliance with the treaty can be monitored--and I believe very strongly, based in part on the CIA's recent assessment, that that is not the case--we are left with the age-old question posed most succinctly some 40 years ago by Fred Ikle: After Detection--What? What are we to make of a verification regime that is far from prepared to handle the challenges it will confront. For example, we are potentially years from an agreement among signatories on what technologies will be employed for monitoring purposes. More importantly, the treaty requires 30 disparate countries to agree to a challenge on-site inspection when 19 allies couldn't agree on how to conduct air strikes against Yugoslavia? 
   Furthermore, we are being asked to accept arguments on verification by an administration that swept under the rug one of the most egregious cases of proliferation this decade, the November 1992 Chinese transfer of M-11 missiles to Pakistan, and that continues to cling tenaciously to the ABM Treaty despite the scale of global change that has occurred over the last 10 years. 
   In determining whether to support this treaty at this time, it is essential that we examine the continued importance of nuclear weapons to our national security. Last week's testimony by our nuclear weapons lab directors that the Stockpile Stewardship Program will not be a reliable alternative to nuclear testing for five to 10 years is a clear and unequivocal statement that ratification of this treaty is dangerously premature. General John Vessey noted in his letter to the chairman of the Armed Services Committee that the unique role of the United States in ensuring the ultimate security of our friends and allies, obviating their requirement for nuclear forces in the process, remains dependent upon our maintenance of a modern, safe and reliable nuclear deterrent. As General Vessey pointed out, ``the general knowledge that the United States would do whatever was necessary to maintain that condition certainly reduced the 
   proliferation of nuclear weapons during the period and added immeasurably to the security cooperation with our friends and allies.'' This sentiment was also expressed by former Secretaries of Defense Schlesinger, Cheney, Carlucci, Weinberger, Rumsfeld, and Laird, when they emphasized the importance of the U.S. nuclear umbrella and its deterrent value relative not just to nuclear threats, but to chemical and biological ones as well. 
   The immensely important role that a viable nuclear deterrent continues to play in U.S. national security strategy requires the United States to be able to take measures relative to our nuclear stockpile that are currently precluded by the Test Ban Treaty. Our stockpile is older today than at any previous time and has far fewer types of warheads--a decrease from 30 to nine--than it did 15 years ago. A fault in one will require removing all of that category from the stockpile. The military typically grounds or removes from service all of a specific weapons system or other equipment when a serious problem is detected. Should they act differently with nuclear warheads? Obviously not. 
   Finally, this treaty will actually prevent us from making our nuclear weapons safer. Without testing, we will not be able to make essential safety improvements to our aging stockpile--a stockpile that has already gone seven years without being properly and thoroughly tested. 
   I hope the time does arrive when a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing will be consistent with our national security requirements. We are simply not yet there. I will consider supporting a treaty when alternative means of ensuring safety and reliability are proven, and when a credible verification regime is proposed. Until then, the risks inherent in the administration's program preclude my adopting a more favorable stance. 
   These are the reasons that I must vote against ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty at this time. The viability of our nuclear deterrent is too central to our national security to rush approval of a treaty that cannot be verified and that will facilitate the decline of that deterrent. Preferably, this vote would be delayed until a more appropriate time, but, barring that, I cannot support ratification right now. 
   The operative phrase, though, is ``right now.'' The concept of a global ban on testing has considerable merit. Defeating the treaty would not only imperil our prospects of attaining that objective at some future point, it would in all likelihood send a green light to precisely those nations we least want to see test that it is now okay to do so. Such a development, I think we can all agree, is manifestly not in our national interest. 
   In articulating his reasons for continuing to conduct nuclear tests, then-President Kennedy stated that, ``If our weapons are to be more secure, more flexible in their use and more selective in their impact--if we are to be alert to new breakthroughs, to experiment with new designs--if we are to maintain our scientific momentum and leadership--then our weapons progress must not be limited to theory or to the confines of laboratories and caves.'' This is not an obsolete sentiment. It rings as true today as when President Kennedy uttered those words 37 years ago. 
   I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991008</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that will make sure that new entrants and small businesses will have the chance to enter and grow in today's megacorporation-dominated telecommunications marketplace. Together with my good friend and colleague, Communications Subcommittee Chairman CONRAD BURNS, I am pleased to bring forward for the Senate's consideration The Telecommunications Ownership Diversity Act of 1999. 
   Yesterday's Washington Post had it exactly right in reporting that, ``the telecommunications world is being remade by technology, deregulation, and a relentless momentum toward greater and greater size.'' In the past week alone MCI/WorldComm and Sprint announced what could be the largest merger on record, the FCC approved a merger that will create the country's largest local telephone company, and it has pending before it many other major mergers, including those that would unite CBS with Viacom and Bell Atlantic with GTE. 
   Although this industry restructuring is unprecedented, it is not unexpected. Digital technology enables formerly-separate voice, video and data services to be offered in combination with each other. This ``convergence'' makes it possible for many more telecommunications companies to compete with each other. And so some telecommunications businesses sell parts of their companies in an effort to focus on specific markets, while others acquire new companies to expand into new markets. 
   This has opened the door for large companies to improve their business prospects. But what about new entrants and small businesses? Unfortunately, for them the story has been quite different. 
   Mr. President, no one needs to be told that any small business faces significant barriers in trying to enter the telecommunications industry. These barriers are even more formidable when the entrepreneur happens to be a woman or a member of a minority group, due to their historically more difficult job of obtaining needed financing. Therefore, in this current telecom industry mixer, small businesses, especially those owned by minorities or women, are often left without partners, watching as bigger, more established companies, get to dance. 
   That's not right, but there is an answer. The answer isn't to forbid mergers out-of-hand, or to retain hopelessly outdated FCC ownership restrictions, or to pursue constitutionally or economically doomed set-aside programs. The answer is to give established industry players economic incentives to deal with new entrants and small businesses that counterbalance the incentives they have to deal with larger companies. 
   And that's what our bill does. The Telecommunications Ownership Diversity Act will promote entry into the telecommunications industry during this period of unprecedented restructuring by providing carefully-limited changes to the tax law. These changes to the tax law are an indispensable component of the solution. Under current law, smaller companies typically must purchase properties for cash, and cash transactions are fully taxable to the seller. So naturally sellers of telecommunications businesses prefer to sell for stock, which is tax-deferred, and which large companies have to offer. 
   The act will level the playing field for new entrants and small businesses by giving telecommunications business sellers a tax deferral when the property is bought for cash by a small business telecom company. The act will also encourage the entry of new players and the growth of existing small businesses by enabling the seller of a telecom business to claim the tax deferral or gain if it invests the proceeds of any sale of its business in purchasing an interest in an eligible small business. 
   In recognition of the convergence of telecommunications services and the growing importance of wireless and Internet-based services as an essential component of the telecommunications market, the telecommunications businesses eligible for this capital gains tax deferral are broadly defined to include not only broadcast and cable TV-type businesses, but also wireline and wireless telephone service providers and resellers, Internet service providers, information technology hardware and software companies, and video service providers.  
   The Secretary of the Treasury is directed to establish the eligibility criteria for small businesses and individuals to qualify, based on the characteristics of the different types of telecommunications businesses and on actual data from recent marketplace transactions. In setting these limits the Secretary is empowered to establish different qualifications for different classes of eligible purchasers, such as minorities and women, to the extent consistent with law. To eliminate the potential for abuse, the act would require the eligible purchaser to hold any property acquired for three years, during which time it could only be sold to an unrelated eligible purchaser. The General Accounting Office is required to thoroughly audit and report on the administration and effect of the act every two years. 
   Mr. President, I could say that, by utilizing tax deferral options in this way, we are sharing with smaller companies a portion of the investment benefits our tax laws give to major telecom companies. That would be accurate, but the real need for this act is much more fundamental and much simpler than that. Hallmark developments in the 
   telecommunications industry have been made by gifted individuals with small companies and unlimited vision. In this sense the telecommunications industry is a true microcosm of the American free-market system, in which the benefits produced by its entrepreneurs generate benefits that extend to all of us. It is therefore critically important that new entrants and small businesses have a chance to participate across the broad spectrum of industries that will make up the telecommunications industry in the Information Age. The act will help them do that, and Senator BURNS and I are proud to sponsor it and to work for its enactment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I supported passage of the Conference Report on H.R.2606, the Foreign Operations Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2000. 
   Foreign aid programs, which constitute a mere one percent of federal spending, are an important and underappreciated component of United States foreign and national security policy. Passage of the annual appropriations bill for foreign operations is, consequently, an imperative. It is for this reason that I voted for its passage, and anticipate its being signed into law by the President. 
   Despite my support for passage of the Conference Report, this legislation is not without its flaws. While it includes essential economic and military assistance for Israel and Egypt, it contains none of the funding associated with implementation of the Wye River accords involving Israel, Jordan, and the Palestinian Authority. It is anticipated that such funding will be included in a supplemental appropriations bill at some point in the not-too-distant future, but I question the fiscal and political wisdom of budgeting in this manner. Smoke and mirrors rarely provide for sound budgeting practices or a coherent foreign policy. 
   I am also concerned about the continued inclusion in this legislation of unrequested earmarks and adds. While the Conference Report represents a vast improvement over the bill passed by the Senate in June, it still represents the legislature's continued refusal to desist from earmarking in spending bills. Such earmarks in the bill include $500,000 for what by any other name remains the Mitch McConnell Conservation Fund, $15 million for American universities in Lebanon, and a requirement to establish a $200 million maritime fund using United States commercial maritime expertise. The bill essentially mandates the establishment of an International Law Enforcement Academy in Roswell, New Mexico, thereby demonstrating yet again that fiscal prudence and operational necessity remain alien concepts to members of this body. 
   There are more examples, but I think I have made my point. As I have stated in the past, there is undoubtedly considerable merit to some of the programs for which funding is earmarked at the request of members of Congress. My concern is for the integrity of the process by which the federal budget is put together. Merit-based competitive processes ensure that the interests of the American taxpayer are protected, and that the most cost-effective approach is employed. Absent such procedures, I will continue to have no choice but to highlight the practice of adding and earmarking funds for programs and activities not requested by the respective federal agencies. 
   Finally, I must register my strong opposition to language in the bill prohibiting any direct assistance to Cambodia and requiring U.S. opposition to loans from international lending institutions for that impoverished country. Cambodia's election was not perfect; in fact, the months leading up to the vote were characterized by numerous efforts on the part of the Cambodian People's Party to intimidate its political opposition. Cambodia, however, is experiencing its first period of relative peace and stability in many years, and it is regrettable that some in the Senate remain committed to isolating the government in Phnom Penh during a time when we should be working within that country to strengthen democratic institutions while facilitating economic growth. Section 573 of the Conference Report, consequently, represents a significant impediment to our ability to help Cambodia move forward from an enormously painful past. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991007</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of legislation Senator KYL and I are introducing with a number of our border-state colleagues to provide appropriate Federal reimbursement to states and localities whose budgets are disproportionately affected by the costs associated with illegal immigration. The premise of our bill, and of current law governing this type of Federal reimbursement to the states, is that controlling illegal immigration is principally the responsibility of the Federal government, not the states. 
   Our legislation would expand the amount and scope of Federal funding to the states for incarceration and medical costs that arise from the detention or treatment of illegal immigrants. Such funding currently flows to all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and two U.S. territories. Although our bill gives special consideration to border States and States with unusually high concentrations of illegal aliens in residence, it would benefit communities across the Nation. It deserves the Senate's prompt consideration and approval. 
   Many of my colleagues are probably not aware that the Federal government, under the existing State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), reimbursed states and counties burdened by illegal immigration for less than 40 percent of eligible alien incarceration costs in Fiscal Year 1998. Border counties estimate that more than 25 percent of their criminal justice budgets are spent processing criminal aliens. In my State of Arizona, Santa Cruz County last year spent 39 percent of its total criminal justice budget to process criminal illegal aliens, of which over half was not reimbursed by the Federal government. In its last budget cycle, New Mexico's tiny Luna County spent $375,000 on immigrant detention costs but received only $32,000 from the Federal government to offset jail expenses. Overall, SCAAP reimbursed states and counties along the border for only 33.7 percent of the cost of incarcerating illegal aliens in FY 1997 and 39.9 percent in FY 1998. 
   The State of California spent nearly $600 million last year to keep criminal aliens behind bars, but was reimbursed for only $183 million of those expenses. In Texas, prosecution of drug and immigration crime, principally in the form of illegal entry into the United States, accounted for an astonishing 70 percent of criminal filings during fiscal 1998. That figure represents a one-year increase of 58 percent in the number of immigration cases brought before the courts, an increase that was not matched by Federal reimbursement for associated legal expenses and incarceration costs to the state and its counties. 
   Earlier this year, the House voted to fund SCAAP at $585 million for FY 2000. This level is insufficient, but would at least roughly maintain existing levels of Federal support to states and localities for alien incarceration costs. Astonishingly, the Senate, in its version of the fiscal year 2000 Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary Appropriations bill, proposed to slash SCAAP funding by 83 percent, to only $100 million, for reasons that escape me. In the words of the U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition, ``Given this program's history of not meeting its obligations to state and local governments even at higher levels of funding, this latest action will in essence leave state and local taxpayers to foot the Federal government's bill for the incarceration of criminal undocumented immigrants.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would have voted against the Nickles amendment because I could not endorse a plan to bust the budget caps, spend every dime of the non-Social Security surplus, and then use budget gimmicks to keep ourselves from dipping into the Social Security surplus. 
   The Congress has the power of the purse, and that power carries with it the obligation to spend the taxpayer dollars responsibly. Just because we have a surplus of tax dollars in the Treasury, that doesn't mean we should spend it. 
   In fact, when we passed a tax relief bill this summer, we made it clear that the surplus--the portion that does not come from Social Security payroll taxes--should be given back to the taxpayers, not spent on big government. That bill was vetoed, as expected, and the Congressional leadership and the Administration have given up on providing meaningful tax relief to American families this year. But now we are apparently planning to use this year's surplus--the surplus that we were going to give back to the people--for more government spending. 
   The Nickles amendment does seek to protect the Social Security surplus, and I applaud him for that effort. I have consistently supported a lockbox to keep Congress' hands off these retirement funds. 
   However, I oppose the Nickles amendment because it contemplates spending the $572 billion allowed under the budget caps, as well as the $14 billion in non-Social Security surplus  funds, and even billions of dollars more--and then indiscriminately cut every program across-the-board by whatever percentage amount is needed to keep us from dipping into Social Security. 
   This ludicrous plan demonstrates just how badly the Congress is addicted to pork-barrel spending. Why not just cut out the pork? 
   I have identified over $10 billion in wasteful, unnecessary, and low-priority spending in the appropriations bills that have passed the Senate this year. Last year, when all was said and done, Congress spent over $30 billion on pork, some of it disguised as emergency spending, but most of it everyday, garden-variety pork. 
   If we cut out every one of these pork-barrel spending projects--projects added by Members of Congress for their special interest supporters and parochial concerns--we wouldn't have to resort to budget gimmicks like creating a thirteenth month in the next fiscal year, or delaying payments to our neediest families, or resorting to a Congressional sequester. 
   I have published on my Senate website voluminous lists that include every earmark and set-aside added by Congress this year and for the previous two years. I urge my colleagues to look over these lists. Surely, these pork-barrel projects aren't as deserving of taxpayer funding as, say, funding for our children's education, veterans health care programs, getting our military personnel and their families off food stamps, and the many other national priorities that would be cut in an across-the-board sequester gimmick. 
   Mr. President, I also want to make the point that voluntarily returning to the indiscriminate sequestration process of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings--a process that was instituted as a last-ditch effort to rein in enormous annual deficits--is not responsible budgetary stewardship. It is an admission of defeat, an admission that the Congress cannot control its appetite for pork-barrel spending. 
   Regarding the Lautenberg amendment, I voted to table that amendment for two reasons. First, by its silence on the issue, the amendment implicitly endorses spending the $14 billion non-Social Security surplus in the appropriations process. Second, the amendment contemplates closing special interest tax loopholes, which I fully endorse, but for the purposes of raising more money to spend on more government. I believe any revenues raised by making our tax code fairer and less skewed toward special interests should be used to provide tax relief for American families. 
   I agree that we must not dip into the Social Security Trust Funds; that would merely exacerbate the impending insolvency of the system. But I cannot support a plan to use the non-Social Security surplus for anything other than shoring up Social Security and saving Medicare, paying down the $5.6 trillion national debt, and providing tax relief to lower- and middle-income Americans. Neither the Nickles or Lautenberg amendments protect the entire surplus from the greedy hands of government. 
   Mr. President, we have a budget process and we have spending caps to make sure we keep the budget balanced. We should ensure that appropriations stay within the caps. We should cut out the wasteful and unnecessary spending. And we should make sure that America's priorities are funded, not the priorities of the special interests. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, although I have serious reservations with respect to one or two provisions, I rise in support of the amendment by Senators GORTON and ROCKEFELLER to replace the slot-related provisions in the bill. 
   It won't surprise anyone to hear that my reservations primarily concern Reagan National. It is deeply regrettable that the amendment takes a step backward in terms of competitive access to Reagan National. The Commerce Committee overwhelmingly approved providing 48 slot exemptions for more service. This amendment will cut that number in half. I understand that this bill may not have come to the floor if this compromise had not been made, but I certainly am not happy about it. Nevertheless, some additional access is better than none at all. 
   The most frustrating aspect of this compromise is that the continued existence of slot and perimeter restrictions at Reagan National flies in the face of every independent analysis of the situation. To support my position, I can quote at length from reports by the General Accounting Office (GAO), the National Research Council, and others, all of which conclude that slots and perimeter rules are anticompetitive, unfair, unneeded, and harmful to consumers. Despite the voluminous support for the fact that these restrictions are bad public policy, we allow them to continue. 
   Reagan National should not receive special treatment just because it is located inside the Beltway. This amendment will already lead to the eventual elimination of the high density rule at O'Hare, Kennedy, and LaGuardia. If we believe it is good policy at those airports, why is it not the same for Reagan National? Arguments that opening up the airport to more service and competition will harm safety, exceed capacity, or adversely affect other airports in the region are without merit. The GAO recently concluded that the proposals in the committee-reported bill are well within capacity limits and would not significantly impact nearby airports. In addition, the DOT believes that increased flights would not be a safety risk. 
   With any luck, the wisdom and benefits of increasing airline competition will eventually win out over narrow parochial interests. It saddens me to say that it will not happen today. Another opportunity to do the right thing by the traveling public is being missed. 
   But my concerns about the Reagan National provisions do not in any way diminish my enthusiastic support for the other competition enhancing provisions in the bill. Eliminating the slot controls at the other restricted airports is a remarkable win for the principle of competition and for consumers. As GAO and others have repeatedly found, more competition leads to lower fares and better service. And in the interim, new entrants and small communities will benefit from enhanced access, which is more good news. 
   I want to make our intent clear with respect to the provisions that govern the time period before the slot restrictions are lifted. We are providing additional access for new service to small communities and for new entrants and limited incumbent airlines. Because these airports are already dominated by the major airlines, which jealously hold on to slots to keep competitors out, we intentionally limited their ability to take advantage of the new opportunities. 
   The amendment directs that Secretary of Transportation to treat commuter affiliates of the major airlines the same, for purposes of applying for slot exemptions and for gaining interim access to O'Hare. Let me be perfectly clear about what this provision means. It means the Secretary should consider commuter affiliates as new entrants or limited incumbents for purposes of applying for slot exemptions and interim access to O'Hare. A major airline should not be allowed to game the system and add to its hundreds of daily slots through its commuter affiliates and codeshare partners. Genuine new entrants and limited incumbents are startup airlines that cannot get competitive access to the high density markets. 
   Many provisions in this amendment are just as that Senate approved them in last year's bill, so I will forgo a discussion of the various studies and other requirements that ensure people residing around these airports have their concerns addressed. Suffice it to say that the FAA and DOT will be very busy monitoring conditions in and around the four affected airports over the next few years. If these provisions begin having seriously adverse impacts, which I do not anticipate, we will certainly know about them. 
   The benefits of airline deregulation have been proven time and again in  study after study. But the job that Congress started 20 years ago is incomplete. We still retain outdated controls over the market. Even worse, these controls work to the benefit of entrenched interests and to the detriment of consumers and competition. The sooner the Federal Government stops playing favorites in the industry the better off air travelers will be. The majority of provisions in this bill will get us closer to the goal of completing deregulation. 
   I urge my colleagues to support the Gorton amendment and vote against any second degree amendment that might weaken its move toward a truly deregulated aviation system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. 
   Mr. President, today the Senate will resume consideration of the pending amendments to the FAA bill. Senators should be aware that rollcall votes are possible today prior to the 12:30 recess in an attempt to complete action on the bill by the end of the day. As a reminder, first-degree amendments to the bill must be filed by 10 a.m. today. As a further reminder, debate on three judicial nominations took place last night and by previous consent there will be three stacked votes on those nominations at 2:15 p.m. today. Following the completion of the FAA bill, the Senate will resume consideration of the Labor-HHS appropriations bill. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am sorry that I was not here yesterday when the debate began. Nevertheless, I rise in support of S. 82, the Air Transportation Improvement Act. As everyone should be aware, this is ``must-pass'' legislation that includes numerous provisions to maintain and improve the safety, security and capacity of our nation's airports and airways. Furthermore, this bill would make great strides in enhancing competition in the airline industry. 
   If Congress does not reauthorize the Airport Improvement Program (AIP), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will be prohibited from issuing much needed grants to airports in every state, regardless of whether or not funds have been appropriated. We have now entered fiscal year 2000, and we cannot put off reauthorization of the AIP. The program lapsed as of last Friday. Every day that goes by without an AIP authorization is another day that important projects cannot move ahead. 
   If we fail to reauthorize this program, we may do significant harm to the transportation infrastructure of our country. AIP grants play a critical part of airport development. Without these grants, important safety, security, and capacity projects will be put at risk throughout the country. The types of safety projects that airports use AIP grants to fund include instrument landing systems, runway lighting, and extensions of runway safety areas. 
   But the bill does more than provide money. It also takes specific, proactive steps to improve aviation safety. For example, S. 82 would require that cargo aircraft be equipped with instruments that warn of impending midair collisions. Passenger aircraft are already equipped with collision avoidance equipment, which gives pilots ample time to make evasive maneuvers. The need for these devices was highlighted a few months ago by a near-collision between two cargo aircraft over Kansas. Unfortunately, that was not an isolated incident. 
   On the aviation safety front, the bill also: provides explicit AIP funding eligibility for the installation of integrated inpavement lighting systems, and other runway incursion prevention devices, requires more types of fixed-wing aircraft in air commerce to be equipped with emergency locator transmitters by 2002, 
   provides broader authority to the FAA to determine what circumstances warrant a criminal  history record check for persons performing security screening of passengers and cargo, reauthorizes the aviation insurance program, also known as war risk insurance. This program provides insurance for commercial aircraft that are operating in high risk areas, such as countries at war or on the verge of war. Commercial insurers usually will not provide coverage for such operations, which are often required to advance U.S. foreign policy or to support our overseas national security operations. The program expired on August 6, 1999, and cannot be extended without this authorization, gives the FAA the authority to fine unruly airline passengers who interfere with the operation or safety of a civil flight, up to $10,000 per violation, authorizes $450,000 to address the problem of bird ingestions into aircraft engines, authorizes $9.1 million over three years for a safety and security management program to provide training for aviation safety personnel. The program would concentrate on personnel from countries that are not in compliance with international safety standards, authorizes at least $30 million annually for the FAA to purchase precision instrument landing systems (ILS) through its ILS inventory program, authorizes at least $5 million for the FAA to carry out at least one project to test and evaluate innovative airport security systems and related technologies, including explosive detection systems in an airport environment, requires the FAA to maintain human weather observers to augment the services provided by the Automated Surface Observation System (ASOS) weather stations, at least until the FAA certifies that the automated systems provide consistent reporting of changing meteorological conditions, allows the FAA to continue and expand its successful program of establishing consortia of government and aviation industry representatives at individual airports to provide advice on aviation security and safety, requires that individuals be fined or imprisoned when they knowingly pilot a commercial aircraft without a valid FAA certificate, 
   requires the FAA to consider the need for (1) improving runway safety areas, which are essentially runway extensions that provide a landing cushion beyond the ends of runways; (2) requiring the installation of precision approach path indicators, which are visual vertical guidance landing systems for runways, prohibits any company or employee that is convicted of an offense involving counterfeit aviation parts from keeping or obtaining an FAA certificate. Air carriers, repair stations, manufacturers, and any other FAA certificate holders would be prohibited from employing anyone convicted of an offense involving counterfeit parts. 
   This bill requires the FAA to accelerate a rulemaking on Flight Operations Quality Assurance. FOQA is a program under which airlines and their crews share operational information, including data captured by flight data recorders. Information about errors is shared to focus on situations in which hardware, air traffic control procedures, or company practices create hazardous situations. 
   It requires the FAA to study and promote improved training in the human factors arena, including the development of specific training curricula. 
   It provides FAA whistleblowers who uncover safety risks with the ability to seek redress if they are subject to retaliation for their actions. 
   The legislation provides employees of airlines, and employees of airline contractors and subcontractors, with statutory whistleblower protections to facilitate their providing air safety information. 
   These provisions will be critical in the continuing effort to enhance safety and reduce the accident rate. 
   Of all the bills that the Senate may consider this year, the Air Transportation Improvement Act should be easy. This bill is substantially the same as the Wendell H. Ford National Air Transportation System Improvement Act, which this body approved last September by a vote of 92-1. If anything, this bill is better than last year's. There is no rational reason why we can't take care of this quickly. 
   Because S. 82 is so similar to last year's FAA reauthorization bill, I will skip a lengthy description of every provision, particularly those that have not changed. Nevertheless, I do want to remind my colleagues of a few key items in this legislation and describe what has changed since last year. 
   The manager's amendment to this bill, which is in the nature of a substitute, has at least three critical parts that are worth highlighting. First and foremost, S. 82 
   reauthorizes the FAA and the AIP through fiscal year 2002. Second, the bill contains essential provisions to promote a competitive aviation industry. Third, it will protect the environment in our national parks by establishing a system for the management of commercial air tour overflights. With the help of my colleagues, I have worked long and hard on all of these issues. 
   The provisions in S. 82 that have generated the most discussion are the airline competition provisions. As I have said many times, the purpose of these provisions is to complete the deregulation of our domestic aviation system for the benefit of consumers and communities everywhere. According to the General Accounting Office, there still exist significant barriers to competition at several important airports in this country. These barriers include slot controls at Chicago O'Hare, Reagan National, and LaGuardia and Kennedy in New York, and the Federal perimeter rule at Reagan National. 
   In a recent study, the GAO found that the established airlines have expanded their slot holdings a the four-slot constrained airports, while the share held by startup airlines remains low. Airfares at these airports continue to be consistently higher than other airports of comparable size. 
   It does not take a trained economist to figure that out. If you restrict the number of flights, then obviously the cost of those flights will go up. 
   Additionally, the federal permimeter rule continues to prevent airlines based outside the perimeter from gaining competitive access to Reagan National. 
   This GAO report reinforces my view that the perimeter rule is a restrictive and anti-competitive Federal regulation that prohibits airlines from flying the routes sought by their customers. According to testimony presented to the Commerce Committee by the Department of Transportation, the perimeter rule is not needed for safety or operational reasons. For that matter, neither are slot controls. Therefore, these restrictions simply are not warranted. 
   So long as the Federal Government maintains outdated unneeded restrictions, which favor established airlines over new entrants, deregulation will not be complete. Slot controls and the perimeter rule are Federal interference with the market's ability to reflect consumer preferences. We should not be in the position of choosing sides in the marketplace. 
   With respect to Reagan National, I would like to make one final point. Just last month, the GAO came out with another study confirming that the airport is fully capable of handling more flights without compromising safety or creating significant aircraft delays. The GAO also found that the proposal in this bill pertaining to perimeter rule would not significantly harm any of the other airports in this region. I believe the GAO's findings demonstrated that there are no credible arguments against the modest changes proposed in this bill. 
   Although the reported version of S. 82 increased the number of new opportunities for service to Reagan National compared to last year's bill, an amendment that will be offered by Senators GORTON and ROCKEFELLER will bring the total number of slot exemptions back to the level approved by the Senate last year. It is sadly ironic that an airport named for President Reagan, who stood for free markets and deregulation, will continue to be burdened with two forms of economic regulation--slots and a perimeter rule. But some loosening of these unfair restrictions is better than the status quo, and so I will not oppose the amendment. 
   Fortunately, the competition-related amendment being offered by Senator GORTON and others includes several significant improvements to the reported bill. Most notably, the slot controls at O'Hare, Kennedy, and LaGuardia airports will eventually be eliminated. This is a remarkable win for consumers and a change that I endorse wholeheartedly. Furthermore, before the slot controls are lifted entirely, regional jets, and new entrant air carriers will  have more opportunities to serve these airports. The typically low cost, low fare new entrants will bring competition to these restricted markets, which will result in lower fares for travelers. Travelers from small communities will benefit from increased access to these crucial markets. 
   I am not alone in believing that the competition provisions in the bill are a big step forward for all Americans. Support for these competition-enhancing provisions is strong and widespread. I have heard from organizations as diverse as the Western Governor's Association of Attorneys General, the Des Monies International Airport, and Midwest Express Airlines. All of them support one or more of the provisions that loosen or eliminate slot and perimeter rule restrictions. 
   But it was a letter from just an average citizen in Alexandria, VA that caught my attention. He said that he feels victimized by the artificial restrictions placed on flights from Reagan National. His young family is living on one paycheck. He says that his family budget does not allow them the luxury of using Reagan National, which is less than ten minutes from his home. To him, using Reagan National seems to be ``a privilege reserved for the wealthy and those on expense accounts.'' For the sake of his privacy I will not mention his name, but this is precisely the type of person who deserves the benefits of more competition at restricted airports like Reagan National. 
   In summary, this bill represents two years of work on a comprehensive package to promote aviation safety, airport and air traffic control infrastructure investment, and enhanced competition in the airline industry. Our air transportation system is essential to the Nation's well being. We must not neglect its pressing needs. If we fail to act, the FAA will be prevented from addressing vital security and safety needs in every State in the Union. I urge all of my colleagues to support swift passage of this legislation. 
   I thank Senator HOLLINGS and his staff, Senator ROCKEFELLER, Senator GORTON, and all members of the Commerce Committee who have taken a very active role in putting this legislation together. It is a significantly large piece of legislation reflecting a great deal of complexities associated with aviation and the importance of it. 
   Approximately a year ago, a commission that was mandated to be convened by legislation reported to the Congress and the American people. Their findings and recommendations were very disturbing. In summary, these very qualified individuals reported that unless we rapidly expand our aviation capability in America, every day, in every major airport in America, is going to be similar to the day before Thanksgiving. I do not know how many of my colleagues have had the opportunity of being in a major airport on the busiest day of the year in America. It is not a lot of fun. 
   I do a lot of flying, a great deal of flying this year, more than I have in previous years. I see the increase in delays, especially along the east coast corridor. I have seen when there is a little bit of bad weather our air traffic control system becomes gridlocked and hours and hours of delay ensue. These delays are well documented. 
   The committee is going to have to look at what we have done in the air traffic control system modernization area. We are going to have to look at what they have not done. There are a number of recommendations, some of which we have acted on in this committee, some of which we have not. But if we do not pass this legislation, then how can we move forward in aviation in this country? 
   I believe any objective economist will assure all of us that deregulation has led to increased competition and lower fares. But some of that trend has leveled off of late because of a lack of competition, because of a lack of ability to enter the aviation industry. 
   This is disturbing to me because the one thing, it seems to me, we owe Americans is an affordable way of getting from one place to another; and more and more Americans, obviously, are making use of the airlines. 
   I can give you a lot of anecdotal stories about what the effective competition is. For example, at Raleigh-Durham Airport, when it was announced that a new, low-cost airline was going to be operating out of that airport, the day after the announcement, long before the airline started its competition, the average fares dropped by 25 percent--a 25-percent drop in average airfares. 
   We have to do whatever we can to encourage the ability of new entrants to come into the aviation business. My greatest disappointment in deregulation of the airlines is that the phenomenon which was generated initially has not remained nearly at the level we would like to see it. 
   There are problems many of my colleagues, including the Senator from West Virginia, have talked about at length--of rural areas not being able to have just minimal air services. 
   That is why we are dramatically increasing the essential air service authorization, so that more rural areas can achieve it. 
   I also think it is very clear the air traffic control system is lagging far behind. I think there is no doubt that we have had problems with passengers receiving fundamental courtesies and rights which they deserve. That is why there has been so much attention generated concerning the need for some fundamental, basic rights that passengers should have and receive from the airlines. For example, the debacle of last Christmas at Detroit should never be repeated in America, what airline passengers were subjected to on that unhappy occasion. Yes, it was generated by bad weather, but, no, there was no excuse for the treatment many of those airline passengers received on that day and other passengers have received in other airports around the country, only the examples were not as egregious, nor did they get the widespread publicity. 
   If you believe, as I do, if we continue the economic prosperity that we have been enjoying in this country, we will continue to see a dramatic and very significant increase in the use of the airlines by American citizens, we have major challenges ahead. 
   I do not pretend that this legislation addresses all of those challenges, but I do assert, unequivocally, that if we pass this legislation, pass it through the body, get it to conference, and get it out, we will make some significant steps forward, including in the vital area of aviation safety. 
   I again thank Senator GORTON and Senator ROCKEFELLER for all their hard work on this issue. I remind my colleagues that in about 5 minutes, according to the unanimous consent agreement, all relevant amendments should be filed. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that notwithstanding the 10 a.m. filing requirement, it be in order for a managers' amendment and, further, the majority and minority leaders be allowed to offer one amendment each. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I also thank the Senator from Maine. I do understand there have been some very negative impacts on Bangor and other parts of the State of Maine associated with airline deregulation. It needs to be studied. We need to find out how we can do a better job, as I said in my earlier remarks, allowing smaller and medium-sized markets to receive the air service they deserve which has such a dramatic impact on their economies. 
   I thank the Senator from Maine for her amendment. Both sides are prepared to accept the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the pending amendment be laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send two amendments to the desk, en bloc, and ask for their immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, these two amendments, along with amendment No. 1893, which was previously offered, have been accepted on both sides. There is no further debate on the amendments, and I ask for their adoption. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, it is my understanding that there is now some 304 amendments that are germane that have been filed by the Senator from Illinois. Obviously, that is his right under the rules of the Senate. 
   I would like for the Senator from Illinois to understand what he is doing. This is a very important piece of legislation. It has a lot to do with safety. The Senator from Illinois should know that. He is jeopardizing, literally, the safety of airline passengers across this country, perhaps throughout the world.  
   I will relate to the Senator what he is doing. Before I do, I think he should know there are strong objections by the Senators from Virginia, the Senators from New York, and the Senators from Maryland, concerning this whole issue of slots and the perimeter rule--but particularly slots. We have been able to work with the Senators from these other States that are equally affected. It is very unfortunate that the Senator from Illinois cannot sit down and work out something that would be agreeable. 
   I want to tell the Senator from Illinois, again, this is very serious business we are talking about. We are talking about aviation safety. This is the reauthorization of the Aviation Improvement Program. It requires fixed-wing aircraft in air commerce to be equipped with emergency locator transmitters; it provides broader authority to the FAA to determine what circumstances warrant a criminal history record check for persons performing security screening of passengers and cargo; it extends the authorization for the Aviation Insurance Program, also known as war risk insurance, through 2003; it requires all large cargo aircraft to be equipped with collision avoidance equipment by the end of 2002; it gives FAA the authority to fine unruly airline passengers who interfere with the operation or safety of a civil flight, up to $10,000 per violation; it authorizes $450,000 to address the problem of bird ingestions into aircraft engines; it authorizes $9.1 million over 3 years for a safety and security management program to provide training for aviation safety personnel. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I won't go through them all. This is a very important bill. In this very contentious and difficult time concerning balanced budgets and funding for other institutions of Government, this authorization bill has been brought up by the majority leader, not by me. I hope it is fully recognized. I repeat, the Senators from Virginia, Senator WARNER and Senator ROBB, Senator MIKULSKI, Senator SARBANES, Senator DURBIN, and Senator FITZGERALD's predecessor, all worked together on this issue. We need to work this out and we need to have this authorization complete. I hope we can get that done as soon as possible. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If the Senator will yield, he knows full well that for the last several months--in fact, ever since he came to this body--the Senator and I have been discussing this issue. It has nothing to do with any Presidential campaign or anything else. The Senator should know that and correct the record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If the Senator will yield, the fact is, the Senator has been involved in discussions in the Cloakroom, on the floor, in my office, and other places on this issue. If we don't agree, that is one thing, but to say somehow that my attention has been diverted is an inaccurate depiction of the situation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Oregon for his steadfast advocacy for airline passengers and a range of other issues. I believe he has done this Nation a great service by attempting to see that airline passengers have certain fundamental benefits that most Americans assume they already had before certain information became known to them and to the Senate. I thank him very much. It appears to be a very good amendment. 
   It has not been cleared yet by Senator ROCKEFELLER. They still have some people with whom they have to talk. I have every confidence we will accept the amendment. I ask that the  Senator from Oregon withhold his amendment at this time until we are ready to accept it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send three amendments to the desk, one by Senator HELMS, which is a second-degree amendment to the Gorton amendment No. 1892, an amendment by Senator BOXER, and an amendment by Senator INHOFE. I ask unanimous consent that they be considered en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Oregon. I know he has been heavily involved in this issue for a long time. We will have the Coast Guard bill scheduled for markup. At that time, I hope the Senator from Oregon will be able to propose an amendment addressing this issue. But I also remind my friend that there may be objection within the committee as well. I know he fully appreciates that. There is at least one other Senator who doesn't agree with this remedy. But I think we should bring up this issue and it should be debated and voted on. I think certainly the Senator from Oregon has the argument on his side in this issue. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Oregon. I look forward to working with him on this very important issue. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to add Senator GRASSLEY as an original cosponsor of the Collins amendment No. 1907. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator GORTON, I send to the desk a modification to amendment No. 1892 offered yesterday by Senator GORTON and ask that it be considered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to call up amendment No. 1906 submitted by Senator VOINOVICH, and on behalf of Senator GORTON, I send a second-degree amendment, No. 1950 to amendment No. 1906, and ask that the second-degree amendment be adopted and that the amendment No. 1906, as amended, then be adopted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator ROBB, I send to the desk two amendments that have been cleared on both sides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask that the amendments be adopted en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, finally, I send to the desk amendment No. 1904 on behalf of Senator SNOWE, and I ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment has been cleared on the other side, and there is no further debate on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-29-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank my friend from Virginia. I understand his passion and commitment on this issue. On this particular issue, we simply have an honorable disagreement. He makes a very cogent argument, but with all due respect, I simply am not in agreement. I have a different view and perspective. He and I have debated this issue on a number of occasions in the past. 
   I want to make a few additional points. Twelve new round-trip flights at Reagan National is barely acceptable to me. Because of Senator ROBB's intense pressures and that of Senator WARNER, and others, we have reduced it rather dramatically from what we had hoped to do. I know the Senator from Virginia knows I won't give up on this issue because of my belief. But 12 additional round-trip flights are simply not going to help, particularly the underserved airports all over America. 
   The GAO has found on more than one occasion that significant barriers to competition still exist at several important airports, and both at Reagan  National Airport are slot controls and the perimeter rule. 
   The GAO is not the only one that assesses it that way. The National Research Council's Transportation Research Board recently issued its own report on competition in the airline industry. This independent group also found that ``the detrimental effects of slot controls on airline efficiency and competition are well-documented and are too far-reaching and significant to continue.'' 
   Based on its finding, the Transportation Research Board recommended the early elimination of slot controls. They were equally critical of perimeter rules. 
   As I mentioned during my opening statement, the GAO came out last month with another study confirming that Reagan National is fully capable of handling more flights without compromising safety or creating significant aircraft delays. In fact, language in the bill requires that any additional flights would have to clear the Department of Transportation's assessment so far as any impact on safety. The GAO demonstrates that their arguments against these modest changes are not persuasive. I regret this legislation doesn't do more to promote competition at Reagan National Airport. 
   I earlier read a statement from one of Senator ROBB's constituents who alleged that he could not afford flights out of Reagan National Airport. Also, I got another letter that was sent to the FAA aviation noise ombudsman and printed in his annual activity report. The noise ombudsman deals almost entirely with complaints about noise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-30-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my friend. 
   First of all, the gentleman said 1960s and 1970s--not just 1960s, 1970s. He said the noise was much louder in the 1970s. 
   In a report to Congress recently, Secretary Rodney Slater announced that the Nation's commercial jet aircraft fleet is the quietest in history and will continue to achieve record low noise levels into the next century. Obviously, with stage 3 aircraft, that noise would be dramatically lessened, thank God. I hope there is going to be a stage 4 that will make it even quieter. Clearly, it is not, because actually the number of flights have been reduced at Reagan National Airport since the perimeter rule and the slot controls were put in--because, as the Senator knows, the major airlines aren't making full use of those slots as they are really required to do by, if not the letter of the law, certainly the intent of the law. 
   I remind the Senator, the requirement is they all be stage 3 aircraft. New flights would have to be stage 4 aircraft. 
   The Senator just pointed out how stage 3 aircraft are much quieter. They would have to meet any safety studies done by the DOT before any additional flights were allowed. 
   Again, the GAO and the Department of Transportation--literally every objective organization that observes the situation at Reagan National Airport--say that increase in flights is called for. The perimeter rule, which was put in in a purely blatant political move, as we all know--coincidentally, the perimeter rule reaches the western edge of the runway at Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. We all know who the majority leader of the House was at that time. We all know it has been a great boon to the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. 
   Why wasn't it in Jackson, MS? I think if my dear friend, the majority leader, had been there at the time, perhaps it might have. 
   But the fact is that the perimeter rule was artificially imposed for restraint. The Senator knows that as well as I do. 
   But back to his question, again, the GAO, the DOT, the Aviation Commission, and every other one indicate clearly that this is called for. I want to remind the Senator. I do with some embarrassment--12 additional flights, 12 additional round-trip flights? I think my dear friend from Virginia doth protest too much. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-31-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Yes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-32-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would be glad to respond very quickly. Does the Senator want an up-or-down vote on this amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-33-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would like to ask the majority leader. Perhaps we can schedule it right after the lunch along with the other votes. I will ask the majority leader when he finishes his conversation. We are about to break for the lunch period. Would the majority leader agree to an up-or-down vote as part of the votes that are going to take place after the lunch? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-34-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would be glad to. 
   Could I just very briefly respond. We have been down this track many times. Delays are due to the air traffic control system, and obviously our focus and the reason why we have to pass this bill is to increase the capability of the air traffic control system. Deals are made all the time, my dear friend. The people of Arizona weren't consulted. The people of California weren't consulted. It was a deal made behind closed doors, which is the most unpleasant aspect of the way we do business around here, where people were artificially discriminated against because they happened to live west of the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. It is an inequity, and it is unfair and should be fixed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-35-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I begin by thanking my friend from New Jersey for his comments, and reassure him that it is the Committee's hope that the funding included in this legislation will allow us to finish the National Airspace Re-Design more expeditiously, including the ongoing effort in the Eastern Triangle. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-36-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I hear and share the views of my colleagues on this issue. Clearly, I have been tasked by the Senate and the Leader with successfully completing a conference with the House on multi-year aviation reauthorization legislation. I, too, oppose any change in budgetary treatment of the aviation accounts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I respect the right of my friend from New York. In behalf of the Senator from Connecticut, who is waiting, we have pending business we are trying to finish today. I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from New York be allowed to speak for 3 minutes. Hopefully, we can move on. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, could I ask for recognition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, prior to the Senator from New York being recognized, I ask unanimous consent the vote on or in relation to the Robb amendment be postponed, to occur in the next stacked sequence of votes, and, prior to the vote, Senators ROBB, WARNER, BRYAN, and MCCAIN be given 5 minutes each for closing remarks and that the amendment now be laid aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Connecticut for his usual perspective on an important issue that had escaped the attention of this committee, and it is an important issue. His involvement in the Y2K issue clearly indicates he is qualified to discuss this issue, and this amendment will be extremely helpful. I thank the Senator from Connecticut. 
   I believe there is no further debate on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the benefit of my colleagues, we are working through most of the amendments. We are close except for a couple. We have a number that have been agreed to. I would like to clear some that have been agreed to by both sides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I send to the desk an amendment on behalf of Senator BURNS and Senator ASHCROFT. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, that amendment has been accepted by both sides, and there is no further debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator ROTH, I send amendment No. 1925 to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment has been agreed to by both sides. There is no further debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send to the desk amendment No. 2251 on behalf of Senator ABRAHAM. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment has been agreed to by both sides, and there is no further debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of myself, I send amendment No. 1909 to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment is agreed to by both sides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send the final four amendments to the desk en bloc. They are amendment No. 1911 on behalf of Senator FEINSTEIN, amendment No. 1897 on behalf of Senator ABRAHAM, amendment No. 1914 on behalf of Mr. TORRICELLI, and amendment No. 2238 on behalf of Senator CONRAD. I ask unanimous consent that these amendments be considered en bloc. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, those amendments are agreed to by both sides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I will be happy to yield to the senior Senator from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I appreciate the efforts of the senior Senator from Georgia on behalf of his constituents and for bringing this matter to the attention of the Senate at the beginning of this Congress. As the Senator may know, there are a number of businesses and  residents located near other airports across the country in a similar situation to what is occurring at the Dekalb-Peachtree Airport. The Commerce Committee has authorized a significant increase in noise mitigation funding for the FAA to address this problem and accelerate the buy-out process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I will be happy to yield to the junior Senator from Georgia. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. The Senator is correct. As the Senator knows, in the report accompanying the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill, the Commerce Committee, at the instigation of the Junior Senator from Georgia, urges the FAA to take into consideration the negative impact on communities, like DeKalb County, of such unresolved long-standing projects when allocating noise mitigation money. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator from Kentucky for his support of the legislation and we are pleased to hear his views on this provision. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I can appreciate the demands on the F&E account for these expenditures and can well understand how such a regrettable situation might occur. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. As the Senator knows, the FAA routinely provides safety and navigational equipment to airports. 
   Mr BUNNING. Yes, indeed. That is precisely the purpose of the language. The $4.2 million the FAA designated as reimbursement is money the Louisville Airport would have received under the $126 million LOI anyway. The provision in the legislation simply directs the FAA to amend the existing LOI with the Regional Airport Authority to increase it by $5.68 million, thus reimbursing Louisville the total cost of the ILS. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It is my understanding that a similar provision was included in the Statement of Managers accompanying the Transportation appropriations legislation for fiscal year 2000. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator for his description of the situation, and I will be happy to continue to work to rectify this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator STEVENS, I ask unanimous consent that Dan Elwell, a congressional fellow in Senator STEVENS' office, be granted the privilege of the floor for the pendency of the Senate consideration of S. 82. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that notwithstanding the agreement of yesterday referencing the filing of amendments, Senator FITZGERALD be recognized and that it be in order for him to offer an amendment not previously filed, and that the amendment then be agreed to. Prior to that, if it is agreeable with Senator FITZGERALD, Senator ASHCROFT wants to have 5 minutes to make a statement. I ask unanimous consent that prior to that, Senator ASHCROFT have 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the benefit of my colleagues, we are nearing the end as far as amendments are concerned. We will be ready within about 20 minutes to a half hour to complete an amendment by Senator DORGAN. We are in the process of working on it. We have several amendments by Senator HATCH that we are trying to get so we can work those out. We have no report yet from Senator HUTCHISON on whether or not she wants an amendment. So if Senator HUTCHISON, or her staff, is watching, we would like to get that resolved. There is a modification of an amendment by Senator BAUCUS. 
   Other than that, we will be prepared to move to the previous unanimous consent agreement concerning debate on the Robb amendment and vote on that, followed by final passage. I believe we are nearing that point. So as we work out the final agreements on these amendments, I hope that within 10 or 15 minutes we will be able to complete action on that and be prepared to move to the Robb amendment debate and then final passage. 
   Mr. President, in the meantime, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator BAUCUS, I send a modification to the desk and ask that it be accepted. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator HATCH and others, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment has been agreed to by both sides. There is no further debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator DORGAN, I send an amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator DORGAN for this amendment. Senator DORGAN has been, for at least 10 years I know, deeply concerned about this whole issue of essential air service. Although essential air service has increased funding, still we are not having medium-sized and small markets being served as they deserve. 
   I thank Senator DORGAN for the amendment. 
   It has been agreed to by both sides. I don't believe there is any further debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Thank you, Mr. President. All we have now remaining is the managers' amendment, which will be arriving shortly. Then I will have a request on behalf of the leader for FAA passage, and the parliamentary procedures for doing so. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from New Mexico. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk on behalf of Senator COVERDELL. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, there is no further debate on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I know of no further amendments to be offered to S. 82 other than the managers' package. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the debate and vote  in relation to the Robb amendment. I further ask unanimous consent that following the vote in relation to the Robb amendment, the managers' amendment be in order, and following its adoption, the bill be advanced to third reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. According to the previous unanimous consent amendment, there was 5 minutes for Senators BRYAN, WARNER, ROBB, and 5 minutes for me. I don't intend to use my 5 minutes because I know that the Senator from Nevada can far more eloquently state the case. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that it be in order to ask for the yeas and nays on passage of the House bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I now ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, therefore, two back-to-back votes will occur within a short period of time, the last in the series being final passage of the FAA bill. 
   I thank all Senators for their cooperation. 
   Before I move on to the debate on the part of Senator BRYAN, Senator ROBB, Senator WARNER, and myself, I will ask that the Chair appoint Republican conferees on this side of the aisle as follows: Senators MCCAIN, STEVENS, BURNS, GORTON, and LOTT; and from the Budget Committee, Senators DOMENICI, GRASSLEY, and NICKLES. 
   I hope the other side will be able to appoint conferees very shortly as well so that we can move forward to a conference on the bill. I understand the Democratic leader has not decided on the conferees. But we have decided ours. 
   I see the Senator from Nevada. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in light of the fact that Senator WARNER just arrived and Senator ROBB has not arrived, I ask unanimous consent that we stand in a quorum call for approximately 5 minutes, and that will give Senator WARNER time to collect his thoughts. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield 3 minutes of my time to the Senator from West Virginia, Mr. ROCKEFELLER. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the time be counted against my time under a quorum call. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-29-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the Senator from New Jersey, Mr. LAUTENBERG, has inserted-- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-30-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the Senator from New Jersey has insisted on his rights, which he has as a Senator, to propose an amendment, for which he seeks half an hour of discussion, followed by a vote on his amendment. He has another amendment which he has agreed to include in the managers' package, which is agreeable to both sides. 
   I ask unanimous consent that the Lautenberg amendment No. 1921 concerning pets be included in the managers' package and that the package be accepted at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-31-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I add to that unanimous consent request that immediately following that, the Senator from New Jersey be recognized for half an hour, and following this half hour we will vote on his second amendment, and that be immediately followed by final passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-32-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-33-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-34-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that no further amendments be in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-35-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield the floor. I thank the Senator from New Jersey. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-36-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent to vitiate the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-37-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. On final passage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-38-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I believe under the unanimous consent agreement, it is now time for the vote on the Lautenberg amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-39-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, following the Lautenberg vote, I ask unanimous consent that H.R. 1000 be discharged from the Commerce Committee, that the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration, all after the enacting clause be stricken, the text of S. 82, as amended, be inserted in lieu thereof, the bill be read a third time, and a voice vote then occur on passage of H.R. 1000. Finally, I ask consent that following the vote, S. 82 be placed back on the calendar. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-40-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-41-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I do agree with the comments of both Senators from Iowa about the need to eliminate the slot rule in two phases at O'Hare. As I stated this morning, I am a supporter of the Gorton slot amendment before its modification by Senator FITZGERALD. I intend to do what I can to have the conference report on the bill contain the provisions of that measure regarding O'Hare which I believe is good policy. 
   Providing for a 40 month first phase during which regional jets and turboprop aircraft to airports with under two million enplanements, as well as exemption of new entrant carriers, all under the limitations set out in the original amendment would be exempt from the slot rule is crucial. These are key elements of a first phase in the elimination of slots at O'Hare. I will also support the increased service provisions that allow for improved service in conference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today, I am introducing the Federal Trade Commission Reauthorization Act. The bill will authorize funding for the Commission for fiscal years 2001 and 2002. The measure sets spending levels at $149 million in FY 2001 and increases that amount for inflation and mandatory pay benefits to $156 for FY 2002. 
   The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has two primary missions: (1) the prevention of anticompetitive conduct in the marketplace; and (2) the protection of consumers from unfair or deceptive acts or practices. The Commission accomplishes its anticompetitive mission primarily through premerger reviews under that Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Under that Act, merger and acquisitions of a specified size are reviewed for anticompetitive impact. During the 1990's, the number of mergers that met these size requirements tripled. This has placed an increased burden on the Commission. 
   Additionally, the Commission pursues claims of unfair or deceptive practices or acts--essentially fraud. As electronic commerce on the Internet increases, fraud will certainly increase with it and the FTC should and will play a role in protecting consumers on the Internet, as they do in the traditional market place. The Commission's performance of these dual missions is vital to the protection of consumers. 
   The Commission was last reauthorized in 1996. That legislation provided for funding levels of $107 million in FY 1997 and $111 million in FY 1998. The bill I introduce today increases the previous authorization by $37 million. In general, the increase is necessary to meet the rising number of merger reviews under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and to protect consumers in the expanding world of e-commerce. According to the Commission's justification, the new authorization would fund 25 additional employees to work on merger and Internet issues. It will also help the Commission upgrade its computing facilities and fund increased consumer education activities. 
   The authorization, however, does not provide for the full amount requested by the Commission. In a recent request, the Commission asked for $176 million in FY2002. While I agree the Commission plays an important role in protecting consumers, their request represents more than a 50% increase in their authorization over a four-year period. At this point, I am not convinced that such a dramatic increase is warranted. 
   As we move through the authorization process, I look forward to hearing further from the FTC as to why such  an increase is needed to meet its statutory functions. I also hope to explore other ways we can improve the Commission's ability to protect customers without increasing spending. 
   For example, I was very interested in the comments of the FTC nominee Thomas Leary during his confirmation hearing regarding the Commission's merger review process. I know over the past few years, the Commission has taken steps to simplify this process reducing its own costs and the costs to the business community. Mr. Leary indicated, however, that more work could be done to change the internal procedures of the FTC to further reduce the number of reviews without harming competition. I look forward to exploring this topic with Mr. Leary and the other commissioners. 
   I look forward to working with the members of the Commerce Committee, the full Senate, and the Commission as we move through the authorization process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet at 9:30 a.m., on Tuesday, October 5, 1999, in closed session, to receive testimony from Department of Energy and Intelligence Community witnesses on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 5, 1999, at 10:30 a.m., to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Select Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 5, 1999, at 2:30 p.m., to hold a closed hearing on intelligence matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the Courts, requests unanimous consent to conduct a hearing on Tuesday, October 5, 1999, beginning at 10 a.m., in Dirksen Room 226. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on African Affairs of the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 5, 1999, at 2:45 p.m., to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Clean Air, Wetlands, Private Property, and Nuclear Safety be granted permission to conduct a hearing Tuesday, October 5, 9:30 a.m., hearing room (SD-406), on the Environmental Protection Agency's Blue Ribbon Panel findings on MTBE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Forests and Public Land Management of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 5, for purposes of conducting a Subcommittee on Forest and Public Lands Management hearing which is scheduled to begin at 2:30 p.m. The purpose of this hearing is to receive testimony on S. 1608, a bill to provide annual payments to the States and counties from National Forest System lands managed by the Forest Service, and the revested Oregon and California Railroad and reconveyed Boos Bay Wagon Road grant lands managed predominately by the Bureau of Land Management, for use by the counties in which the lands are situated for the benefit of the public schools, roads, emergency and other public purposes; to encourage and provide a new mechanism for cooperation between counties and the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management to make necessary investments in federal lands, and reaffirm the positive connection between Federal Lands counties and Federal Lands; and for other purposes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation of the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, October 5, 1999, to conduct a hearing on S. 1452, the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19991004</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I wish to express my strong opposition to the conference agreement on H.R. 2084, the Fiscal Year 2000 Transportation Appropriations Bill as recently approved by the House and Senate conferees. 
   I recognize that there are very important provisions in the legislation, sections that appropriate funds for programs vital to the safety of the traveling public and our national transportation system over all. Yet despite that necessary funding, the legislation once again goes overboard on pork barrel spending. 
   It is extremely disappointing the conferees chose to meld the enormous number of listed projects that were earmarked in the House and Senate reports accompanying the transportation appropriations bill this year. Many additional projects were also included by the conferees. It seems that there is never a dearth of special projects that come to the attention of appropriators--even after both chambers have already passed their versions of the legislation. 
   One would have thought with the windfall enjoyed by most states due to the new budgetary scheme under Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, there would have been less project earmarking, but unfortunately that was not the case. And, there always seems to be a ready list of towns, airports, universities, or research organizations that appropriators want to reward with more money to work on a transportation project. 
   For example, many airports that failed to be included when the House and Senate considered the transportation funding legislation somehow managed to be included in the conference agreement. Some of the new entrants on the airport funding priority list are the Aurora Municipal Airport in Illinois, the Upper Cumberland Regional Airport in Tennessee, the Abbeyville Airport in Alabama, and the Eastern West Virginia Airport in West Virginia. 
   Like some airports, transit projects that failed to make the cut when the House and Senate considered their respective funding bills also somehow made the cut in the conference report. Further, the conferees deemed it necessary to provide specific recommendations to allocate 65 percent of the dollars set aside for the new jobs access and reverse grants program established under TEA-21. And, yet the House approprators had acknowledged in the House report accompanying the bill that this program was created ``to make competitive grants.'' If the funding is to be competitively awarded, why did the conferees find the need to provide a listing of 47 specific recipients? 
   I have consistently fought Congressional earmarks that direct money to particular projects or recipients, believing that such decisions are far better made through nationwide competitive, merit-based guidelines and procedures. I continue to find this practice an appalling waste of taxpayer dollars. Bill after bill, year after year, earmarks continue to divert needed federal resources away from more meritorious and deserving projects. It is simply unconscionable that Congress condones wasting so much of our taxpayers dollars by funneling funds to special interest projects while at the same time, so many of our young men and women serving in the armed services go underpaid and in some cases, are forced to accept food by Congress, have been classic examples. 
   Let me share with my colleagues some of the university-related pork. $500,000 is provided for Crowder College in Missouri for a truck driving center safety initiative. $875,000 is set aside for the University of South Alabama to begin a research project on rural vehicular trauma victims. $250,000 is set aside for Montana State University at Bozeman to pilot real-time diagnostic monitoring of rail rolling stock. $250,000 is set aside for the University of Missouri-Rolla to work on advanced composite materials for use in repairing old railroad bridges. 
   As I have said previously, I do not question that some--perhaps all--of this research may be needed, but I do question whether the specifically selected universities are the best place to spend taxpayer dollars on those projects. It is conceivable that there may be other, more experienced entities, that could perform the research--but we will never know because earmarking ignores merit-based criteria. 
   I vehemently object to the expenditure of scarce transportation funds on projects that have not been subject to uniform, objective funding criteria. I further object to the expenditure of scarce transportation funds on unauthorized programs. 
   Section 365 provides $500,000 in grants to the Environmental Protection Agency to develop a program that allows employers in certain regions to receive credits for reduced vehicle-miles-traveled if that employer allows workers to telecommute. Section 365 was not in the House-passed bill. Section 365 was not in the Senate-passed bill. There have been no hearings on the provision in either the House or the Senate. I, for one, believe that the airport and surface transportation safety programs could far better use that half a million dollars than the Environmental Protection Agency. 
   I have asked the following question before and I will continue to on other appropriations bills. I ask my colleagues, why are the appropriators so reluctant to permit projects to be awarded based on a competitive and meritorious process that would be fair for all the states and local communities? I ask my colleagues, why are the appropriators so quick to slip in provisions creating brand new authorizations. I suspect it is due to the fact they may doubt the merits and worth of the very projects they are earmarking and of the programs they are authorizing. 
   I have only mentioned a few of the examples of earmarks and special projects contained in this measure and I will not waste the time of the Senate going over each and every earmark. However, a detailed listing of the many earmarked projects proposed in this bill and committee report are available from my office and can also be obtained from my website. 
   Finally, I would like to express my grave concerns over a provision that would prevent certain very critical motor carrier safety functions from being administered by the Federal Highway Administration. Such a prohibition could be of grave consequence to the road traveling public and is short-sighted at best. 
   Last year an attempt was made by the House Appropriations Committee to strip FHWA from its authority over  motor carrier safety matters. As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, which has jurisdiction over most federal transportation safety policies, including motor carrier and passenger vehicle safety, I opposed this proposal, in part because it had never been considered by the authorizing committees of jurisdiction. The provision was ultimately not enacted and I pledged that I would work to address motor carrier safety concerns in this Congress. I have lived up to this commitment. 
   At my request, the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation conducted a comprehensive analysis of federal motor carrier safety activities. Serious safety gaps have been identified, and as such, the authorizing Committees of jurisdiction have been working to move legislation to improve motor carrier safety. The Commerce Committee held a hearing on my specific safety proposal and we expect to mark up that measure during the next Executive session. Indeed, we are working to move legislation through the regular legislative process. 
   In my opinion, it is very short-sighted and a serious jeopardy to public safety if Congress shuts off funds for motor carrier safety activities within the Department of Transportation. For example, under the conference agreement, the Department would not be permitted to access civil penalties for motor carrier safety violations. According to DOT, ``this provision would effectively shut down our safety enforcement program.'' While I am aware safety improvements are necessary and am working to accomplish those needed improvements, stipping critical authority is not in the interest of truck safety. I would urge the President to veto this legislation due to this unwise and unsound provisions and permit the authorization process to proceed responsibly.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990930</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I commend both Senator SPECTER and Senator HARKIN for their dedicated work on this legislation which provides federal funding for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS), and Education. This appropriations bill provides funding for many critical programs directly helping American families and providing important assistance to our most important resource, our children. 
   One of the most important components in this bill is its vital support for education. We owe it to each and every child to ensure that they have access to a high quality education. This is why I am pleased that this bill increases funding for Department of Education to almost $38 billion, including nearly $6 billion for educating children with special needs and $5.2 billion for the Head Start program. 
   I am also pleased to note that this bill prohibits federally funded national education standards. It continues to be my strong belief that our nation must have higher learning expectations for our children but academic standards must be controlled by state and local authorities, not the bureaucrats in Washington. 
   This bill contains important resources for helping make college and continuing education more affordable for all Americans. Under this bill, the maximum loan amount for post-secondary education would be the highest level in the program's history--$3,325 per student. In addition, this legislation provides $1.4 billion for higher education opportunities, including $180 million for GEAR UP which assists under-privileged children and $5 million to provide access to affordable child care for parents struggling to complete their college education while raising their children. 
   I am particularly pleased that this bill provides significant funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health, NIH, $17.6 billion, which is an increase of $2 billion from last year. I am sure that my colleagues share my support for this 13 percent increase in funding for vital research which could lead to important scientific breakthroughs which will improve the health of our citizens. Finally, I am encouraged to note that this bill took an important step towards meeting the needs of over 7,000 children and families whose lives have been devastated by hemophilia-related AIDS, by beginning to fund the Ricky Ray Act as authorized by Congress last year. 
   Furthermore, I was pleased to learn that the sections allocating funding for Labor, HHS and Education were free of direct earmarks, set asides or unauthorized appropriations. However, my initial enthusiasm was dampened somewhat upon reviewing the report language. While the Committee made a concerted effort to not include any specific earmarking in those Departments' budgets, the report contains an exorbitant amount of directive language that is clearly intended to 
   have the same effect as an earmark. By this, I mean the use of words like ``encourage'', ``urge'', and ``recommend'' in connection with references to particular institutions, projects, or proposals that the Committee would obviously like the relevant agencies to fund. 
   These are not direct earmarks, but I am sure the programs which the Committee ``encourages'' or ``urges'' the agencies to support will receive special consideration. While the Committee avoided providing a line item for funding specific projects, it stated its strong preference for the funding or continued funding of many specific projects which would clearly bypass the competitive funding process. 
   I will highlight a few examples of report language that contain a multitude of expressions of support, short of earmarks, for particular projects. These include: 
   The Committee urges the Department of Labor to give full and fair consideration to funding requests submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to retrain incumbent workers. 
   The Committee encourages the Department of Labor to support agricultural training for dislocated sugarcane workers in Hawaii. 
   The Committee recommends continued support by the Department of Labor for the Alaska Federation of Natives Foundation to develop and train Alaska native workers for year-round employment within the petroleum industry. 
   The Committee encourages the agency to contribute technical assistance to the University of Nevada at Reno and Las Vegas toward the establishment of educational channels for a school of pharmacy. 
   The Committee stated its awareness of the San Bernardino County Medical Center proposal to create a ``hospital without walls.'' In addition, the Committee notes that the Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital is proposing the creation and implementation of a Northern California Telemedicine Network. 
   The Committee is aware of a proposal by the Montana State University-Billings to develop in collaboration with  medical facilities in the area a telemedicine program to provide preventive medicine and support services to the large elderly population in Billings and eastern Montana. 
   The Committee continues to be supportive of the work being conducted by the Low Country Health Care Systems. 
   The Committee encourages priority be given to the University of Hawaii at Hilo Native Language College when allocating funds for native Hawaiian education. 
   The Committee is concerned about the absence of technology integration in the north central communities of Pennsylvania. The committee notes the efforts of the Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania for its development of two regional networks to link these rural communities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I congratulate my respective colleagues on both sides of the aisle for successfully completing work on this important spending bill. I regret that I was not able to be here to vote on the final Energy and Water conference report for fiscal year 2000. 
   The conferees deserve credit for their notable efforts in forging this conference agreement and continuing funding for the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and other critical energy programs important to our nation. I am disappointed to say that, just as this final report ensures that necessary functions and programs of the Federal Government are funded, the practice of pork-barrel spending also continues. 
   When the Senate passed its version of the energy and water appropriation bill just 2 months ago, I found $531 million in low-priority, unnecessary, and wasteful spending. While a half a billion dollars is an incredible amount of pork, it is remarkable that this final conference report has been fattened up with an additional $200 million in pork barrel projects. 
   A lot of this pork is concentrated in sections of the bill detailing projects to be funded by the Army Corps of Engineers. While I am certainly supportive of our water infrastructure and civil works programs, I am appalled at the process by which the conferees have directed money in these accounts. A majority of the projects do not appear to be funded based on a competitive or merit-based review, but instead funding is clearly directed toward projects  which are not requested in the budget and more closely resemble special interest projects. 
   We sought to curb Federal spending and reduce our tremendous deficit by passing the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. However, because we now enjoy a robust economy and balanced budget, we have detracted from our important goal of spending tax-payer's hard-earned dollars prudently. 
   A clear example of this fiscal irresponsibility is exemplified by the ``emergency spending'' bills we have enacted over the past two years. Why did we have to pass these supplemental appropriations bills? Because those areas of the country which are not the recipients of these special interest earmarks are suffering because there is not a realistic chance to compete for federal funding through established normal procedures and guidelines when budgetary spending is based more on parochial actions. 
   Over the years, I have reported to the American taxpayers the pork-barrel spending that continues through our annual appropriations process. I believe we owe it to the American public to report how we spend their taxpayer dollars. Sadly, the taxpayers will have to shoulder the burden of financing pork barrel projects to the tune of $759 million included in this energy and water spending measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990928</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to join my colleagues, Senators ABRAHAM and MACK to introduce legislation today which will help ensure that our children are being taught by the best, brightest and most component teachers. 
   ``A teacher affects eternity; they can never tell where their influence stops.'' I share this sentiment of Henry Adams--knowledgeable, enthusiastic teachers play a critical role in the development of our children. 
   Personally, I can attest to the lasting mark teachers can have on a child, for my life has greatly benefitted from the guidance, encouragement and support of many teachers. As many of my colleagues know, my years in school were not notable for individual academic achievement, but I was fortunate to have been taught by some of the finest leaders and role models our nation could offer a young person. Their efforts helped prepare me for the experiences and obstacles I faced later in life. 
   It is important for us to continue to work to ensure that all children have access to wonderful, intelligent and inspirational teachers. It is my strong belief that testing our teachers and providing merit pay for those that excel is critical for retaining smart, enthusiastic and talented teachers in our nation's classrooms. This is why I cosponsored this measure last year and have joined my colleagues again this year to reintroduce this legislation. 
   Too many teachers are receiving salaries which are not commensurate with the invaluable service they provide. It is unconscionable that a bad politician is paid more than a good teacher. I will continue fighting for better pay for our nation's teachers, but I will also continue fighting for programs which encourage our states to provide merit-based pay, and periodically test teachers for competence. By all means, we should reward good teachers. They have answered one of the highest callings in our society, and they should be honored for the sacrifices they make on our children's behalf. But we should also weed out problem teachers who have lost the desire to teach or who have failed to improve their teaching skills in this high tech age. 
   The fact is that teachers who refuse to demonstrate their competency, are probably not competent to teach. Every child in every classroom deserves a teacher who is qualified and enthusiastic about teaching. Some people just aren't meant to be teachers, and we should help them find another line of work. 
   There are thousands of dedicated teachers around our nation working with parents, school officials and local communities to guide our children and provide them with the highest quality education necessary for ensuring the youth of our country have both the love in their hearts and the knowledge in their heads to not only dream, but to make their dreams a reality. These are precisely the teachers whom we should be fighting to keep in our schools and merit pay is crucial towards achieving that. 
   America's teachers are helping our youth develop the personal, professional and emotional skills necessary for successfully defining and achieving their goals. The impact of quality teachers on our children and our nation's future is immeasurable and irreplaceable, and we must continue developing and strengthening programs which encourage these teachers to continue teaching our children and building a better future for all of us. I urge my colleagues to support this measure we are introducing today and work with us to ensure the best teachers with the best skills are teaching our children. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I introduced an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2000 VA-HUD Appropriations bill that would have provided the Department of Veterans Affairs with a new flow of non-appropriated revenues, thereby benefiting all American veterans who rely on the agency's services. This legislation would improve the VA's ability to collect insurance costs from third-party providers. Currently, the VA collects only about one-third of the money it is owed by private insurers through its Medical Care Cost Recovery (MCCR) program. The Independent Budget prepared by AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Veterans of Foreign Wars explicitly calls for Congress to give VA the authority to privatize MCCR. My legislation would require the VA to privately contract for these collections for a period of three years, during which the VA would develop an internal process to improve medical cost recovery. 
   Unfortunately, I could not obtain the concurrence of the Chairmen of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee or the Veterans Affairs Committee to attach my amendment to this bill. Nonetheless, I will continue to fight for this proposal, as I believe it is a potential source of considerable revenue for the chronically underfunded VA. Senate Veterans Affairs  Committee Chairman SPECTER has told me that this is an important amendment, and that his committee would give full consideration to my free-standing legislation on VA medical cost collection. I look forward to working with him, our veterans service organizations, and other Members of Congress to require the VA to improve its ineffective and delinquent medical cost collection program. Doing so should help us move the VA budget closer to the $20 billion target identified by those who speak for America's veterans as necessary for sustaining our commitment as a nation to care for those who have honorably served her in uniform.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to thank both Senator BOND and Senator MIKULSKI for their hard work on this important legislation which provides federal funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and Independent Agencies. However, once again, I find myself in the unpleasant position of speaking before my colleagues about unacceptable levels of parochial projects in this appropriations bill. Although the total level of pork-barrel spending in this bill is down from last year's total of $607 million, this bill still contains nearly $470 million in wasteful, pork barrel spending. This is an unacceptable amount of low priority, unrequested, wasteful spending. 
   The total value of specific earmarks in the Veterans Affairs section of this bill is about $80 million, $30 million more than last year. 
   Let me review some examples of items included in the bill. An especially troublesome expense, neither budgeted for nor requested by the Administration for the past eight years, is a provision that directs the Department of Veterans Affairs to continue the eight-year-old demonstration project involving the Clarksburg, West Virginia VAMC and the Ruby Memorial Hospital at West Virginia University. Two years ago, the VA-HUD appropriations bill contained a plus-up of $2 million to the Clarksburg VAMC that ended up on the Administration's line-item veto list and that the Administration had concluded was truly wasteful. 
   Like the transportation and military construction bills, the VA appropriations funding bill is a convenient vehicle to add building projects to the President's budget request. For example, the bill adds $10 million in funding for a new National Cemetery in Oklahoma City/Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Although this is a worthy cause, I wonder how many other national cemetery projects in other States were passed over to ensure that Oklahoma's cemetery received the VA's highest priority. Another project added to the bill was $3.9 million to convert unfinished space into research laboratories at the ambulatory care addition of the Harry S. Truman VAMC in Columbia, Missouri. 
   In the area of critical VA grant funding, again, certain projects in key members' states received priority billing, including $50 million added and made available to replace the boiler plant and construct a dietary facility at the Southeastern Veterans Center/Pennsylvania State Veterans Home in Spring City, Pennsylvania. Both projects were rejected by the Department of Veterans Affairs as wasteful spending of taxpayers dollars. Furthermore, the Department told the Committee that the responsibility for maintenance, repair, and replacement of boiler power plants is the responsibility of the State of Pennsylvania. 
   Grant money totaling $14 million is added and made available for cemeteries in Bloomfield and Jacksonville, Missouri. Again, I am sure that these are two worthwhile cemetery projects, but they push aside higher priority cemetery grants, including one in my State of Arizona. 
   Earmarks aside--there are many good things about this bill. 
   Over the past four years, veterans' health care funding has been virtually flat. This funding level has occurred as our veterans population is aging and in need of greater long-term health care that is often more expensive. Earlier this year, several key veterans organizations (the Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Veterans of Foreign Wars) reported in the ``Independent Budget'' that President Clinton's budget is $3 billion less than is necessary to maintain current health care services to our nation's veterans. Furthermore, the American Legion has also been proactive with veterans nationwide and in discussions with me regarding the severe inadequacies in veterans health care. 
   I was proud when the Senate passed legislation that Senator WELLSTONE and I sponsored earlier this year to add $3 billion in budget authority for veterans health care and I felt that we had the commitment of the Senate, with a solid vote of 99-0. 
   Last week, I wrote to the Chairmen of the Senate Committee on Appropriations and VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee to ask that they increase critical veterans health care funding that is not contained in the President's budget. Unfortunately, the bill as reported only included $1.1 billion. 
   When the bill was brought to the Senate, I sponsored legislation with Senator BYRD that added $600 million and another critical amendment by Senator WELLSTONE that added an additional $1.3 billion to veterans health care. Unfortunately, the latter failed to pass. Although Senator BYRD's amendment designates additional veterans funding under an emergency designation of the Balanced Budget Act, I agree with Chairman STEVENS' statement that we should find the additional $600 million in funding from other than emergency designation. Such funding will prove instrumental to ensuring that quality health care is delivered in a timely manner in our nation's VA medical care facilities and preventing the continued curtailment of essential veterans programs and services. 
   As I travel across the country, I am overwhelmed by the concerns of veterans regarding the poor health care situation in VA facilities. I am happy with the support and leadership that Senator BOND has provided in supporting a $1.7 billion plus-up to President Clinton's veterans budget and commend him on his efforts. But more remains to be done. And I pledge to do everything in my power to correct this injustice in veterans health care funding in the future. 
   This bill also contains the funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) which is responsible for many programs vital in meeting the housing needs of our nation and for the revitalization and development of our communities. The programs administered by HUD help our nation's families purchase their homes, assists many low-income families obtain affordable housing, combats discrimination in the housing market, assists in 
   rehabilitating neighborhoods and helps our nation's most vulnerable--the elderly, disabled and disadvantaged have access to safe and affordable housing. 
   While many of the programs funded in this portion of the bill are laudable, I am deeply concerned about the number of earmarks in this section of the bill. I will highlight just a few of the more egregious violations of the budgetary review process. These include: 
   Six pages of earmarks dictating how a large portion of the Community Development Block Grant money must be allocated. This is inappropriate and a direct violation of the appropriate budgetary process. More importantly, it diverts critical funds from many communities which need the funding for local development programs but are excluded from the funds because of these egregious earmarks. 
   For example: 
   $1.7 million is earmarked for the Sheldon Jackson College Auditorium in Sitka, AK for refurbishing. 
   $1 million is set aside for the construction of a fire station project in Logan, UT. 
   $1.2 million of CDBG funds are earmarked for renovating a gateway to historic downtown Madison, MS. 
   $1.75 million for the University of Nevada in Reno, NV for the Structures Laboratory. 
   $1.25 million for the revitalization of the Route 1 corridor. 
   $3.5 million for the University of Alaska Fairbanks Museum. 
   These are a few of the many earmarks in housing which put aside money for specific projects and bypass the open, competitive process of selecting the most urgent and worthy projects, thereby limiting the funds available to communities around the country who are not fortunate enough to reside in a community with a Senator on the Appropriations Committee.  In total, $93.2 million of the $4.8 billion for CDBG is earmarked for projects selected for special set-asides. 
   Contained in both the bill and the Senate report is an exemption for Alaska and Mississippi from the requirement to have a public housing resident serving on the board of directors of PHAs for FY 2000. 
   Also contained in the bill is a provision preventing Peggy A. Burgin from being disqualified on the basis of age from residing at Clark's Landing in Groton, VT. While I do not know the specifics of this situation, I do know that providing relief to a specific individual is no more appropriate than providing funding for a specific project or entity. 
   This bill also funds the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) which provides critical resources to help state, local and tribal communities enhance capacity and infrastructure to better address their environmental needs. Protection of the environment is among our highest responsibilities. I strongly support directing more resources to communities that are most in need and facing serious public health and safety threats from environmental problems. Unfortunately, after a close review of this year's Senate bill and report for EPA programs, I find it difficult to believe that we are responding to the most urgent and pressing environmental issues. Instead, I am disturbed by the continuing trend to focus spending on more parochial interests rather than on environmental priorities. In this year's bill and report, I found nearly $207 million in unrequested, locality-specific, and low-priority earmarks. 
   There are many environmental needs in communities back in my home state of Arizona but these communities will be denied funding as long we continue to tolerate egregious earmarking that circumvents a regular merit-review process. For example, earmarks are directed in the amount of $750,000 for painting and coating compliance enhancement project at the Iowa Waste Reduction Center and an extra $200,000 for the University of Missouri-Rolla to work with the Army to validate soysmoke as a replacement for petroleum fog oil in obscurant smoke used in battlefield exercises. While these projects may be important, there is no explanation provided as to why the Administration did not prioritize them as part of its budget or why these projects rank higher than other environmental priorities. 
   The subcommittee also saw fit to provide $400,000 for a Sound Program Office in Long Island, New York. While this project may have merit, I cannot understand why we should spend almost half a million dollars on a project which does not appear to be related to an environmental issue. 
   Furthermore, this bill directs more funding toward universities for research or consortia rather than directing resources to local communities for environmental protection. For independent agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), this bill also includes earmarks of money for locality-specific projects such as $3 million for a hands-on science center in Huntsville, Alabama, and $14 million for infrastructure needs of the Life Sciences building at the University of Missouri-Columbia. For the National Science Foundation (NSF), there is $10 million added for the Plant Genome Research Program. 
   The examples of wasteful spending that I have highlighted are only a few of the examples of earmarks and special projects contained in this measure. There are many more low-priority, wasteful, and unnecessary projects on the extensive list I have compiled. The full list is on my website. 
   In closing, I urge my colleagues to develop a better standard to curb our habit of directing hard-earned taxpayer dollars to locality-specific special interests so that instead, we can serve the national interest. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would designate the Medal of Honor memorials at the national cemetery at Riverside, California, the White River State Park at Indianapolis, Indiana, and the museum at Patriots Point in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, as National Medal of Honor sites. I am joined in this effort by Senators CRAPO, COCHRAN, and BINGAMAN. This legislation is a companion bill to H.R. 1663, sponsored by Representative KEN CALVERT and cosponsored by 77 Members of the House of Representatives. 
   Mr. President, this is not a frivolous piece of legislation that I am introducing today. The Medal of Honor is this nation's highest honor. The 3,417 Americans who have received the Medal of Honor, from the Civil War through the terrible battle in the dusty streets of Mogadishu, each demonstrated uncommon courage in the service of their country, many at the cost of their lives. In testimony in support of the House bill before the Veterans Subcommittee on Benefits, Paul Bucha, president of the Congressional Medal of Honor Society, stated that the Society ``believes that these projects will bring full recognition to recipients and is hopeful that this will complete the system of memorials that recognize Medal of Honor recipients.'' Passage of the bill Senators CRAPO, COCHRAN, BINGAMAN and I are introducing today will help to ensure this recognition in a timely manner. 
   Designation of the three sites as ``National'' memorials will give them the status they deserve, while bringing them appropriately under the department of Interior. There is no cost associated with this legislation. I hope that my colleagues in the Senate will support passage of this legislation, and thank the President for this opportunity to address the Senate on behalf of this worthy legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990924</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to state for the record that, had I been able to, I would have voted against the Hutchison amendment to the Interior appropriations bill, which proposed to continue a moratorium on revising Interior regulations governing how much oil companies pay for oil drilled on public lands and resources. I regret that previous commitments prevented my availability to be in the Senate for this critical vote. 
   This issue seems fairly straightforward. Oil companies are required to pay royalties for on- and off-shore oil drilling. Fees are based on current law which clearly states that ``the value of production for purposes of computing royalty on production ..... shall never be less than the fair market value of the production.'' Revenues generated from these royalties are returned to the federal treasury. However, for many years, oil companies have been allowed to set their own rates. 
   In the past, I have supported similar amendments which extended a moratorium on rulemaking while affected parties were involved in negotiations to update the regulations. However, this process has been stalled for years, with little possibility of reaching resolution because these legislative riders imposing a moratorium on regulation changes have created a disincentive for oil companies to agree to any fee increases, resulting in taxpayers losing as much as $66 million a year. 
   Who loses from this stalemate? The taxpayers--because royalties returned to the federal treasury benefit states, Indian tribes, federal programs such as the Historic Preservation Fund and the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and national parks. 
   I supported cloture twice to end debate on this amendment because I believe we should vote on the underlying amendment to allow a fair and equitable solution of royalty valuation of oil on federal lands. On the final vote, however, I would have opposed the Hutchison amendment to continue this moratorium because I believe we should halt the process by which oil companies can set their own rules and determine how much they pay the taxpayers for the use of public assets. I do not support a structure which only serves to benefit big oil companies and allows them to continue to be subsidized by the taxpayers. 
   We should seek fairness for each and every industry doing business on public  lands using public assets, and we should insist that same treatment be applied to oil companies. Fees that are assessed from drilling oil on public lands are directed back to the federal treasury and these fees should reflect the true value of the benefit oil companies receive. 
   We have a responsibility, both as legislators and as public servants, to ensure responsible management of our public lands and a fair return to taxpayers. That responsibility includes determining a fair fee structure for oil drilling on public lands. Despite passage of this amendment which continues this moratorium for yet another year, I hope that we can reach a reasonable agreement to ensure proper payment by oil companies for utilizing public resources.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990923</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to state for the record that, had I been able to, I would have voted against the Hutchison amendment to the Interior appropriations bill, which proposed to continue a moratorium on revising Interior regulations governing how much oil companies pay for oil drilled on public lands and resources. I regret that previous commitments prevented my availability to be in the Senate for this critical vote. 
   This issue seems fairly straightforward. Oil companies are required to pay royalties for on- and off-shore oil drilling. Fees are based on current law which clearly states that ``the value of production for purposes of computing royalty on production..... shall never be less than the fair market value of the production.'' Revenues generated from these royalties are returned to the federal treasury. However, for many years, oil companies have been allowed to set their own rates. 
   In the past, I have supported similar amendments which extended a moratorium on rulemaking while affected parties were involved in negotiations to update the regulations. However, this process has been stalled for years, with little possibility of reaching resolution because these legislative riders imposing a moratorium on regulation changes have created a disincentive for oil companies to agree to any fee increases, resulting in taxpayers losing as much as $66 million a year. 
   Who loses from this stalemate? The taxpayers--because royalties returned to the federal treasury benefit states, Indian tribes, federal programs such as the Historic Preservation Fund and the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and national parks. 
   I supported cloture twice to end debate on this amendment because I believe we should vote on the underlying amendment to allow a fair and equitable solution of royalty valuation of oil on federal lands. On the final vote,  however, I would have opposed the Hutchison amendment to continue this moratorium because I believe we should halt the process by which oil companies can set their own rules and determine how much they pay the taypayers for the use of public assets. I do not support a structure which only serves to benefit big oil companies and allows them to continue to be subsidized by the taxpayers. 
   We should seek fairness for each and every industry doing business on public lands using public assets, and we should insist that same treatment be applied to oil companies. Fees that are assessed from drilling oil on public lands are directed back to the federal treasury and these fees should reflect the true value of the benefit oil companies receive. 
   We have a responsibility, both as legislators and as public servants, to ensure responsible management of our public lands and a fair return to taxpayers. That responsibility includes determining a fair fee structure for oil drilling on public lands. Despite passage of this amendment which continues this moratorium for yet another year, I hope that we can reach a reasonable agreement to ensure proper payment by oil companies for utilizing public resources. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to offer some comments in support of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000. Since Operation Desert Storm in 1991, I have been extremely concerned with the drastic decline in funding for our Armed Services. We have all watched as the military lost more and more of its highly trained warriors, as the equipment aged year after year with few spare parts and no replacements, and as the infrastructure at our military bases fell into disrepair. Today, I am cautiously optimistic that we have finally, if belatedly, recognized serious readiness shortfalls and are taking steps to correct them. That this bill represents a 4.4 percent increase over the current fiscal year's level is a step in the right direction. 
   I am most heartened by the package of personnel benefits that are incorporated in this bill. Several identified shortcomings in pay and retirement benefits have been addressed. Pay table reform brings the focus of the pay raises to the middle leadership in both the officer and enlisted ranks. Repealing REDUX brings equity across the military for retirement benefits. Securing higher annual pay raises takes the first step to closing the pay gap between military personnel and their civilian counterparts. Implementing a Thrift Savings Plan for military personnel will help retain our dedicated soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines. 
   Two critical areas of our military that begin to be addressed in this bill are the shortage of spare parts and the lack of replacement equipment. In every branch of the service, examples abound of equipment being utilized far in excess of its intended service life. In many cases the equipment is older than the operator and costs more and more each year to maintain. This bill funds spare parts programs to allow our equipment to be fully combat ready, and funds many follow-on systems that will directly benefit the war fighter. 
   This trend must continue in the years to come. Maintaining a viable military is a commitment, not a once-a-decade afterthought. 
   While I applaud the effort to bolster some of the areas of our military that have been under funded for the last 10 years, I am disheartened that, yet again, Congress has failed to take two of the most meaningful steps to free more dollars for our defense budget. The first of these is the continued and reprehensible practice of spending billions of dollars on programs that the armed services did not ask for and, in many cases, do not need. Allocating funding from an already tight budget for programs added primarily for parochial reasons continues to undermine honest efforts to adequately provide for the national defense. 
   I applaud the Committee chairman's effort to minimize the number of member adds not reflected on service Unfunded Priority Lists. Committee staff should be commended for their great efforts in carefully drafting legislation and checking amendments with the Service's Unfunded Priority Lists and the Future Years Defense Plan--ensuring that, in most cases, the Services' priorities were funded. There is no question, however, that enormous sums continue to be earmarked as much for political as for operational reasons. In fact, my concern about the continued viability of the Unfunded Priority Lists has grown in the face of questionable inclusions on those lists, such as executive and tactical airlift aircraft that clearly expand on existing inventory surpluses, and programs from the Future Years Defense Plans that are moved ahead more to accommodate powerful members of Congress than to address pressing funding shortfalls. That there is more than $3 billion in questionable spending added by members for parochial reasons illustrates that the scale of the problem remains unacceptably high. 
   I also continue to find incomprehensible Congress's unwillingness to permit the military to divest itself of excess infrastructure. Literally billions of dollars can be saved over the course of a FYDP if the services are authorized to close unneeded installations and facilities. And let there be no mistake: Congressional opposition to another round of base closures is not predicated upon specious arguments about the supposed lack of cost savings and operational requirements that defy simple economics and common sense; this opposition grows solely out of the desire on the part of members of this body to avoid the politically painful process of defending hometown installations. 
   As one who saw a major installation in my state closed during the 1991 BRAC round, I can sympathize with that reluctance to undertake an unpleasant task. As one who also saw the rejuvenation of a community previously dependent upon that military installation after it was turned over to  local authorities, and as one more than a little concerned about our inability to fully address vital readiness and modernization problems, I must respectfully disagree with those who oppose another round of base closures. 
   The elimination of excess infrastructure is vital to allow the Department of Defense to focus resources on necessary support facilities rather than base structure from the Cold War era. Savings from previous BRAC rounds have been validated in the billions of dollars by every conceivable research foundation. There is just no excuse for continuing to require taxpayers to pay for infrastructure we do not need. 
   I am also distressed that the bill does not address a personnel issue I find an embarrassment and a tragedy. With over 12,000 military families on food stamps, and the potential of more than double that number eligible for the program, I cannot reconcile the lack of attention to this issue in this bill. I have been open to all suggestions for solutions to this problem. I have hoped for and worked toward a bipartisan response that would satisfy the Administration, Congress, and the Department of Defense. Although the Senate approved my legislation, I was greatly disappointed when this measure was rejected by conferees from the House of Representatives despite the strong support of Admiral Jay Johnson, the Chief of Naval Operations, and General Jim Jones, the Marine Corps Commandant. 
   I find it an outrage that enlisted families line up for free food and furniture while we pour hundreds of millions of dollars into C-130J, automatic grenade launcher, anti-ship decoy, hyperspectral research, and free electron laser programs. The insertion into the budget of hundreds of millions of dollars for an amphibious assault ship that the Navy does not want and that the Secretary of Defense specified diverts dollars from higher priority programs is difficult to reconcile with our professed concern for the welfare of military families. 
   What we have here is a situation in which certain members of the House are apparently unconcerned about having tens of thousands of military families eligible for food stamps. Yet, they raise no opposition to funding a gymnasium at the Naval Post-Graduate School or a $15 million Reserve Center in Oregon that were not in the department's budget request. In fact, a vast majority of unrequested items costing many millions of dollars were added to the bill by the same body that opposed the food stamp provision. Sadly, politics, not military necessity, remains the rule, not the exception. 
   Although my legislative proposal would have been funded for the Department of Defense at approximately $6 million annually, the Congressional Budget Office found that it actually would have represented a savings to taxpayers, since it would save more in the Agriculture Department by removing service members from the food stamp rolls. I am at a loss to understand or explain how such a straightforward measure could be so easily rejected by the House of Representatives, particularly in a year when Congress voted to increase its own pay and also included a 15% annual pay raise for generals and admirals. 
   I will continue to press forward to resolve this tragic problem, and I believe that most Americans will support my effort. I will not stand by and watch as our military is permitted to erode to the breaking point by the President's lack of foresight and the Congress' lack of compassion. These military men and women--our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines--are the very same Americans that the President and Congress have sent into harm's way in recent years in Somalia, Bosnia, Haiti, Kosovo, and currently East Timor. Our service members deserve better. They deserve our continuing respect, our unwavering support, and a living wage. 
   On another matter, I am very pleased that the bill contains provisions for the renewal of the withdrawal of the Goldwater Range. 
   The Goldwater Range is one of the most important military training ranges in the country, supporting activities of all services. It currently comprises approximately 2.7 million acres of desert land in southwest Arizona, with climate and weather conditions that allow flight and other training over 360 days a year. This range is vital to the continued military readiness of our Armed Forces. 
   It is also located in the heart of the Sonoran desert and contains one of the most undisturbed desert ecosystems in North America. The Sonoran desert ecosystem on the Goldwater Range is one of the few places in the nation that contains virtually all of the plant and animal species that were present before the continent was discovered by Europeans. The dozen mountain ranges and arid bajadas of the range are home to the desert bighorn sheep, the critically endangered Sonoran pronghorn antelope, and dozens of plant species found almost nowhere else in the U.S. 
   The challenge is to provide for necessary national defense training while protecting this natural treasure. In 1986, the Congress passed the Military Lands Withdrawal Act which formally authorized the Barry M. Goldwater Range. Included within the range was more than 860,000 acres of the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and more than 1.8 million acres of lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
   Management. The withdrawals established under the 1986 Act were for 15 years and were due to expire unless extended in 2001. 
   While the approach to the withdrawal of the Goldwater Range in this bill is different from what we did in 1986, the provisions will ensure the continued availability of this range for vital military training, while protecting and preserving the unique cultural and natural resources of this part of Arizona. 
   The withdrawal provisions included in the conference report are based on the Administration's proposal. Because of the environmental protections included in the Administration's proposal and additional provisions added in the conference agreement, I am comfortable with the plan to transfer management of the natural and cultural resources within the range to the Air Force and the Navy, a decision which is fully supported by both the Interior Department and the President's Council on Environmental Quality. In practical effect, the Air Force and Marine Corps have been performing the management functions at the Goldwater Range for many years, and doing a superb job of it, according to most observers, while the efforts of the Bureau of Land Management and Interior Department have been widely criticized. In fact, the Department of Defense already dedicates significant resources to land and resource management of the Range. The decision to formally transfer management recognizes the superior fiscal and manpower resources available to the military Services, who also have the most compelling interest in maintaining future training access to the range, which can only be accomplished by effectively addressing environmental concerns regarding its use. 
   The Cabeza Prieta will no longer be included in the military lands withdrawal, and it will continue to be protected and managed by the Interior Department and the Fish and Wildlife Service as one of our Nation's crown jewels of wilderness areas. 
   President Franklin D. Roosevelt established the Cabeza Prieta refuge in 1939 in recognition of the tremendous natural resources of the area. Congress--with my strong support--designated about 803,000 acres of the 860,000-acre Refuge as wilderness in the Arizona Desert Wilderness Act of 1990, making it the largest and one of the most pristine wilderness areas managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in the lower 48 states. I am very proud to have been a part of the effort to protect this unique wilderness area. The management of Cabeza Prieta should set the highest standard for the protection of wilderness and wildlife values. 
   This bill ensures that military aviation training can continue over the refuge pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding in place between the Fish and Wildlife Service and the Air Force but ensures that the wildlife and wilderness conservation purposes of the refuge remain unaltered. The bill does not seek to add new purposes to the Refuge's management mandate. 
   Under the 1990 wilderness act, the Air Force was allowed to maintain a small number of ground instruments on the refuge within the Cabeza Prieta Wilderness. Man-made structures are not generally allowed within wilderness  areas. The bill before us allows the Air Force to upgrade, replace, or relocate the structures but only if doing so will have a similar or less impact on the wilderness and the environment than the existing structures. 
   The legislation also requires the Defense and Interior Departments to jointly develop a comprehensive integrated natural and cultural resources management plan for the Range, and to conduct a full environmental review, with public comment, every five years, including submission of a report to Congress. The Secretary of the Interior is given unilateral authority to take back the responsibility to manage the Range lands if the Secretary determines that the military is failing to adequately protect them. If at any time this authority is exercised, or if any of the five-year reports indicate degradation of the natural and cultural resources on the range, the Congress could and should take prompt action to redress those problems. I would certainly support such action. 
   The conference agreement also directs the Department of the Interior to work with all affected parties, including state, local, and tribal governments, to determine how best to manage and protect the natural and cultural resources of the four parcels of land, totaling 112,179 acres, that will no longer be withdrawn from public use for military utilization. The study will examine whether such lands can be better managed by the Federal Government or through conveyance of such lands to another appropriate entity. The prompt completion of this study will give the Department of the Interior an opportunity to plan for the most appropriate management strategies for these lands, which, because of the withdrawal, have not been subject to mining, livestock grazing, or heavy recreation use for a half-century. These lands include the spectacular, 83,554-acre Sand Tank Mountains area. I expect that the Department of the Interior will explore a number of management options for management of the Sand Tank Mountains (and the other parcels) including transfer to Native American peoples, as well as the potential to protect the important natural values of the area through the designation of qualifying lands as wilderness, or through the limiting of livestock grazing and mining. This area is home to the highly endangered Sonoran pronghorn antelope and I expect that the study will include provisions for this and other threatened and endangered species. The study is to be completed within one year from the date of enactment of this bill. 
   Finally, the bill establishes an Intergovernmental Executive Committee of federal, state, and tribal representatives for the purpose of exchanging information, views, and advice relating to the management of the natural and cultural resources of the range. I fully expect that this body will conduct its meetings in public, and will provide ample opportunity for the public to participate in meetings and to review and comment on any proposals for the administration of the area that may be discussed by the committee. 
   I am very disappointed that the conferees did not include language for a comprehensive study of alternative management plans for the Goldwater Range. A proposal was made earlier this year to designate the range as a park or preserve, managed by the National Park Service, while permitting continued military training. In addition, several environmental groups registered concerns about the Administration's proposal for DOD management of the range and expressed concern that the military would be an ineffective manager of the natural resources at issue. 
   In response, I worked with the concerned individuals and groups to develop language directing the Department of the Interior to make recommendations on management of the range, including possible designation as a park, a preserve, a wilderness area, a nature conservation area, or other similar protected status. Simply studying alternative management schemes would not interfere with military training activities for which the range is essential. Rather, a comprehensive study would provide information to guide the Administration and the Congress in taking appropriate action to ensure that the cultural and natural resources on the range are preserved and protected. 
   It is incomprehensible that anyone could object to a study, but, unfortunately, significant opposition was raised by outside conferees on the House side. I will continue to pursue other avenues in this matter, because I am uncomfortable with the idea of locking in the Administration's proposal without ensuring that we could revisit that decision if the experts determined after studying alternative suggestions that some other form of management would be more appropriate. 
   In July, I wrote to the Secretaries of Interior and Defense, requesting that they independently undertake an assessment of alternative management plans for the Goldwater Range. They have the authority to do so, and I have urged them to begin a study immediately. In addition, I proposed an amendment to the FY 2000 Interior Appropriations bill to require such a study, and I am working to ensure such a study is included in legislation pending before the Energy and Natural Resources Committee to authorize new park areas. Once an alternative management study is completed, I will ensure that any recommendations for improved management of the Goldwater Range are considered and acted on, as necessary, by the Congress. 
   Despite shortfalls in the conference report before us today, I urge my colleagues to support its passage. On the whole, it is a step in the right direction toward resuscitating an armed force suffering from the diverging pattern of expanding commitments and contracting resources. It includes tangible incentives for the men and women who defend our nation day and night, 365 days a year, at home and overseas. It paves the way for better equipment and higher equipment availability rates. It is imperfect, as, I suppose, a bill of this magnitude is destined to be, but our armed forces deserve the good that is included in it, even if they must also suffer the bad. 
   Mr. President, the full list of unquested adds will be available on my website. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce legislation today which will ensure that Internet commerce remains free from burdensome, anti-consumer taxation. Simply, this bill would make permanent the moratorium on sales and use taxes for e-commerce, and would encourage the Administration to urge our world trading partners to do the same. 
   I believed that this was the right approach last year. However, others were concerned about the impact on so-called ``main street business'' if such a prohibition against taxation of e-commerce was implemented. Therefore, I agreed to a temporary moratorium to allow more information to be gathered and those issues to be further considered. I now believe that additional information and further analysis of  Internet taxation issues confirms that indeed a complete moratorium is the right approach, and we should act now to protect the engine of our economy from unnecessary regulation and taxation. 
   In addition to the discussion here in the United States, protection of the Internet against international tariffs is also a topic of interest to our trade partners. It is important for us to set the tone for discussion with the international Internet community by establishing the Internet as a world-wide ``tax-free zone.'' 
   Conslusions included in a recent study completed by the respected auditing and consulting firm Ernst & Young supports passage of this legislation. The report found that the total sales and use taxes not collected by state and local governments from Internet e-commerce transactions amounted to only ``one-tenth of one percent of total state and local sales and use tax collections.'' 
   Further, Ernst & Young determined that the small effect of commerce transaction on sales and use tax revenues is due to several factors, including the fact that ``an estimated 80% of current commerce is business-to-business sales that are either not subject to sales and use taxes or are effectively subject to use tax payments by in-state business purchasers,'' ``an estimated 63 percent of e-commerce sales are for intangible services, such as travel and financial services, or exempt products, such as groceries and prescription drugs'' which are not subject to tax in most states. 
   As a result, ``..... only 13% of total e-commerce retail sale have potential sales and use tax collection issues.'' Thus, the nearly infinitesimal effect on local revenues is not causing a financial crisis for either states or local communities. 
   Mr. President, what is clear is that the issues raised in relation to e-commerce transactions are really broader policy issues related to a fair and equitable tax policy in this country. Debate on this larger issue needs to take place. The discussion includes not just Internet sales or even catalog sales, but all of the ramifications of taxing sales of goods across state and international boundaries. 
   We must look at the costs to small businesses of administering different tax policies for each location in which it conducts business. We need to look at the effects of taxation on consumers. And, we need to consider how taxes affect the United States' position as the world leader in technology application. 
   I look forward to the report in April from the panel commissioned last year by Congress to explore these issues. Recent media accounts suggest that they may not reach agreement on a plan to propose to Congress. I think it is important to move forward on ensuring that the default position absent a consensus proposal is not to lift the moratorium, but to place the burden of proof on those advocating taxation of e-commerce. This places the burden on those who support taxation to provide both the rationale and a workable methodology. I will be skeptical of both, but invite them to make their case and allow the debate. This bill ensure, however, that we don't provide an incentive for inaction. This bill confirms that the right answer is to not tax unless there is a good reason to, and unless there is a fair mechanism for doing so. 
   I look forward to debate on what is a fair tax system in the United States, at both the national and state levels. However, while we continue that debate, we must also ensure that we do not perpetuate the problems currently ingrained in our tax system by applying them to the Internet. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990922</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today to increase the funding available to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) without requiring an additional appropriation from the Congress for that chronically short-changed agency. The bill would improve VA's ability to collect insurance costs from third-party providers, generating new financial flows to the VA and benefiting all American veterans. 
   My colleagues are well aware that the President's budget request for the VA--scandalously, the fourth year in a row of effectively flat budget requests for the agency--falls fully $3 billion short of what is needed for veterans' medical care in fiscal 2000, according to some of our most prominent veterans service organizations. Congress has tried to make up for this shortfall, but budget caps and competing priorities have made that effort exceedingly difficult. I previously wrote to the Chairman of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee and the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee to urge them to add fully $3 billion in funding for veterans medical care. Nonetheless, I congratulate the Appropriations Committee for adding $1.1 billion in new money for veterans medical care. 
   The 1997 Balanced Budget Act gave VA the authority to retain collections from private insurers for veterans health care as part of an agreement to free VA funding. However, VA has proven incapable of effectively collecting these private insurance payments. In fiscal 1996, VA sought recovery of about $1.6 billion it was owed by private insurers but recovered only $563 million, or 35 percent of the billed amount and a 3 percent decrease in collections from the previous year. That decline continued in fiscal 1997, when collections totaled $524 million, and in fiscal 1998, when collections totaled about $562 million. A 1998 Coopers and Lybrand study comparing VA and private-sector cost-recovery confirmed that VA's medical collection program is ineffective confirmed that VA's medical collection program is ineffective and delinquent. In short, the VA loses hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue every year that could be used to provide enhanced services to America's veterans, rather than be written off by government book-keepers. 
   The Independent Budget prepared by AMVETS, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Veterans of Foreign Wars explicitly calls for Congress to give VA the authority to privatize its Medical Care Cost Recovery (MCCR) program. This legislation would mandate that VA privately contract for those collections for a period of three years, during which the VA would develop an internal process to improve medical cost recovery. 
   I am open to suggestions from other Members of Congress and our veterans service organizations regarding other means to improve VA cost collection firm private insurers, and I note the Appropriations Committee's requirement for a VA study on this issue. However, I believe this legislation offers a near-term way to collect these much-needed funds. 
   Our veterans are being short-changed by their government, which pledged to support and care for them in exchange for their honorable service. I was proud when the Senate passed legislation Senator Wellstone and I sponsored to add $3 billion in budget authority for the VA earlier this year. Unfortunately, we could not come up with a matching appropriation, although I applaud the increased funding for VA health care contained in the VA-HUD Appropriations bill. But we can empower the VA to improve its Medical Care Cost Recovery program in a way that increases VA revenues, thereby enhancing care for America's veterans. I hope every Member of Congress would agree that they have earned it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to thank the conferees of this bill for their work on this legislation which provides federal funding for many vital programs. However, I regret that this appropriations bill continues the unwise practice of including unacceptable levels of parochial projects. This year's Senate bill contained a little over $293.6 million in earmarked pork-barrel spending. This year's conference report is a drastic improvement in that it only contains $91.2 million in wasteful, pork-barrel spending. Although $91.2 million of waste is better than $293.6 million of waste, waste is still waste. 
   As my colleagues know, I have consistently fought Congressional earmarks that direct money to particular projects or recipients. I believe that such decisions are far better made through nationwide competitive, merit-based guidelines and procedures. 
   We must stop this destructive and irresponsible practice of earmarking special-interest pork-barrel projects in appropriations bills primarily for parochial reasons. 
   Where does all this pork go? This bill contains millions of dollars for court house construction and repairs. There is $1,600,000 earmarked for repairs and alterations to the Kansas City Federal Courthouse in Kansas City, Missouri, and $1,250,000 for repairs and alterations to the Federal Courthouse in New York, New York. Although these courthouses may need repair and modernization, are these particular projects more important than the other courthouses competing for funding? The process by which these two earmarks were added makes it impossible to evaluate the relative merit of these programs against other priorities. 
   In addition to earmarks for courthouses, this bill contains the usual earmarks of money for locality-specific projects such as $212,000 for renovations to the Louisville International Airport in Kentucky, and $250,000 to the Fort Buford Historic Site in North Dakota for research and cataloging of records of this Fort. 
   Then there are the many sections of the report which have language strongly urging various Departments of the  Federal Government to recognize or participate in a joint-venture with a particular project in a state. While these objectionable provisions have no direct monetary effect on the bill, this not-so-subtle ``urging'' will have some financial benefit for someone or some enterprise in a Member's home state. For example, there is report language urging the continuation and expansion of the collaboration between the University of North Dakota and the Customs Service for rotorcraft training. There is also report language urging GSA to strongly consider the U.S. Olympic Committee's need for additional space and to give priority to the USOC's request to gain title or acquire the property located at 1520 Willamette Avenue in Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
   This bill also selects sites across the country for which the report language ``urges'' the Agency not to reduce its staff. For example, there is report language providing that no reorganization of the Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation Division will result in a reduction of criminal investigators in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 level. 
   Why are these facilities protected at a time when each agency is required to abide by the Government Program Reduction Act which mandates that they operate more efficiently with less bureaucracy? Even if these positions are critical, they should be prioritized in the normal administrative process. 
   Mr. President, although we have not yet done so, we are very close to breaking the spending caps. I hope my colleagues understand that merely because we can fund these programs of questionable merit within the spending caps, that does not entitle us to spend the taxpayers' hard-earned dollars irresponsibly. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, as Co-Chair of the Senate Republican Task Force on Hispanic Affairs, I am pleased to note Hispanic Heritage month which began on September 15. During the month, we will focus on the vibrant Hispanic community that has made tremendous contributions to our nation and to my state of Arizona for many generations. 
   Projected to soon be the country's largest minority, this colorful and proud community is incredibly rich in culture and diverse in backgrounds. All too often, the various groups that make up ``Hispanics'' are lumped together and some forget the dynamic differences between Mexicans and Puerto Ricans, or Salvadorans and Chileans, for example. But when Hispanics come together--tied by social and cultural similarities--they form a powerful group to whom we must listen. 
   Much has been said lately about the Hispanics' burgeoning economic and political power. This group's contribution to the economy is significant. Their buying power has increased at an annual rate of 5.5 percent, far out-distancing inflation. This has resulted in an explosion of Hispanic advertising dollars. According to Hispanic Business Magazine, from 1997 to 1998, ad budgets targeting the Hispanic market jumped 21 percent to $1.71 billion. And study after study indicate that Hispanic businesses are the fastest growing segment of the small business community. 
   Politically, Hispanics are becoming a great force. They are voting in ever-larger numbers, projected as high as 5.5 million in the 2000 elections, up from 4.2 million in 1992. Currently, however, only one in every 20 votes is cast by a Hispanic, even though one in nine Americans is Hispanic. Unfortunately, low voter turnout, because of political cynicism, is a trend that is not only affecting the Hispanic community. 
   It is important that the political voice of Hispanics is not drowned out by money from special interests. When I look down the list of soft money donors to both political parties, I see corporate giants; I see large labor unions; I see the Fortune 500. I don't see the name of my friend Victor Flores, who started a small bakery in the town of Guadalupe, Arizona, and labored hard for years to feed the community and support his family. I don't see Victor's name or, frankly, the majority of Americans who deserve the attention, access and priority representation that only a select few can afford under today's corrupt campaign finance system. I will continue to fight for campaign finance reform, because without it, we will not achieve the other reforms that have a direct bearing on better quality of life for Hispanic Americans and all who make up the great American tapestry. 
   In today's global economy, education is essential for success. If the Hispanic high school dropout rate remains stubbornly high, resulting in a lack of needed job skills for the 21st century, income gaps will grow and our poverty rates will rise. This is bad for America. We must work harder on these issues. 
   Knowledge of English is as important as education in order to succeed. However, I will consistently oppose positions that are divisive, such as ``English-Only'' laws. There is no need to abandon the language of your birth to learn the language of your future. Hispanics should use and cherish both. 
   Finally, I wish to recognize the outstanding contributions Americans of Hispanic descent have made to our national defense. In 1997, I was pleased to successfully co-sponsor legislation to  grant a Federal charter to the American G.I. Forum, the largest association of Hispanic veterans in the United States. I remain terribly proud that our Armed Forces, in which I was privileged to serve many years ago, today reflect the composition of American society better than any other institution. Hispanic Americans have sacrificed enormously to secure the liberties many of us take for granted today; their service honors all of us. 
   Hispanic Americans are honest, hard working patriots, who want and deserve the equal opportunity that is our nation's promise. Hispanics have distinguished themselves in every walk of life. This month, let's recognize their contributions that exemplify the American Dream.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990915</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, unfortunately I will not be present when the Senate votes on the amendment offered by Senators GORTON, BRYAN, and FEINSTEIN. The amendment expresses the sense of the Senate that it should not recede to the House position of prohibiting the Department of Transportation from preparing, proposing or promulgating any regulation regarding Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for vehicles. 
   As my colleagues know, I have been and will continue to be a proponent of the CAFE program. The fuel conservation goals embodied in the original CAFE standards are still important. However, I would not support the amendment offered today. CAFE is an extremely complex issue. It involves a  delicate balance between environmental, safety and economic concerns. CAFE standards need and deserve the full attention of the Congress. 
   The structure of the CAFE statute appears to no longer make sense in light of the current auto market. For example, the statute draws a distinction between non-passenger vehicles, essentially light trucks and sport utility vehicles (SUVs), and passenger vehicles. The statute establishes a default standard for passenger vehicles and allows the Department of Transportation to adjust the level up or down based upon certain criteria. 
   The statute does not establish a standard for light trucks. Instead, the agency sets the standard at its discretion based upon criteria in the statute. One of the reasons for the distinction was the size of the non-passenger vehicle market. At the time the CAFE was enacted, light trucks and SUVs represented approximately 15 percent of the market. Now, they are approximately 50 percent of the market. In some states like my home state of Arizona they represent more than 54 percent of new car sales. I question the wisdom of allowing an agency sole discretion over the fuel economy standards of 50 percent of the auto market without any guidance from Congress. 
   In 1992, the National Research Council conducted what is considered to be the most comprehensive study of the CAFE program. In the executive summary of that report, the study committee made the following statement ``[I]n this committee's view, the determination of the practically achievable levels of fuel economy is appropriately the domain of the political process, not this committee.'' The Committee rightly concluded that many of the issues surrounding CAFE involve tradeoffs that are public policy decisions, not a simple scientific conclusion. It is my intent to follow this advice and bring this debate back to Congress to determine how we should approach fuel economy standards as we enter the new millennium. 
   As chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, it is my intention to hold hearings on CAFE early next year to examine this structure. Over the next few weeks, I will contact the Department of Transportation, the General Accounting Office, environmental groups, the major automobile manufacturers and the highway safety groups to solicit their views and begin the process of examining the statute. 
   Some of my colleagues argue that we should allow the Department of Transportation to move forward on a parallel track with the legislative process. I disagree with this argument for two reasons. First, the rule making process will further polarize and distract all of the parties on a specific proposal before consideration is complete on substantive changes to the law. Second, should a legislative solution be crafted, the agency, as well as interested members of the public will have wasted time and resources developing and responding to a standard, which will never be implemented. 
   Mr. President, I look forward to holding hearings on this matter and, I look forward to the participation of my colleagues on both sides of this issue as we move forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990913</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that will make federal radio and television ownership rules Y2K compatible. 
   When Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996 almost four years ago, we recognized that the forty-year-old rules restricting broadcast station ownership were badly outdated and in need of change. They reflected a mass media industry made up of radio stations, TV stations, and newspapers--and that's all. None of the dominant new multichannel media like cable TV, satellite TV, or the Internet figured in, because they didn't exist. 
   But they exist now, and they have transformed the way Americans get their news, information, and entertainment. As more and more people turn to cable channels and the Internet as their preferred means of electronic  communications, the audience and revenues of the big TV networks have plummeted, and the number and circulation of daily newspapers have spiraled downward. 
   The days when Huntley, Brinkley and Cronkite on the air, and the Times, the Post, and the Tribune at the breakfast table dominated our perspectives on the issues are forever gone. In their place are CNN, CNBC, MSNBC, and the innumerable web sites available on the Internet. 
   Even more important, Americans today are no longer just passive recipients of the news and views doled out by a handful of powerful TV networks and daily newspapers. Today, thanks to the Internet, anyone on line can pose questions and exchange perspectives with anyone else on line. 
   In other words, the days when network news and big-city newspaper editors were the dominant opinionmakers are long over. But the restrictive ownership rules that were a product of that time aren't over. Like so many federal regulations, they live on, despite the fact that they're as out-of-date as Alice Kramden's ice box. 
   The proliferation of alternative sources of electronic news, information and entertainment hasn't just made the old ownership rules useless--it's actually made them harmful. Faced with daunting competition from these new media, broadcasters, and especially newspaper owners, must have the opportunity to realize the increased operating economy and efficiency that liberalized ownership rules make possible. If we do not allow this to happen, 
   we place the future of these older media in even greater doubt in today's hypercompetitive market. 
   Congress recognized all this when it directed the FCC to review all its broadcast ownership rules every two years. Although the Commission recently overhauled some of these rules, it left two others intact--the national network ownership limit and the ban on owning a daily newspaper and a broadcast station in the same market. 
   That's not consistent with what Congress told the Commission to do, and it isn't fair. We told the Commission to reexamine all the rules precisely because all the rules, not just some of the rules, have been rendered counterproductive by the changes that have taken place in the electronic mass media marketplace. In fact, the rule that's arguably the most hopelessly anachronistic is the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban--yet the FCC shows no sign of budging on it. 
   Mr. President, this bill corrects this situation. With respect to the national TV ownership limits, it follows the approach Congress used in the 1996 Telecommunications Act by raising the national audience reach limitation from 35 to 50 percent, and allows the FCC to raise it further if the public interest warrants it. It eliminates the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban, but would allow the FCC to reimpose it if the Commission can do so by January 1, based on the extensive record that has been pending before them for over three years. 
   Mr. President, there are lots of policy cobwebs that have kept these rules in place despite the permanent and unmistakable changes the electronic media market has undergone. Some of them spring from the notion that broadcasting, as a free rider on the public's multibillion-dollar spectrum, can and should be subject to regulation over and above that of other media. Others are stubbornly ingrained notions of how powerful the TV networks and newspapers are. Still others--the least worthy--are scars left over from what particular newspapers have had to say on their editorial pages. 
   Nobody is less sympathetic than I am to the fact that broadcasters, unlike other users of the public's spectrum, pay nothing for the privilege. But subjecting them to anachronistic, even counterproductive, rules isn't a substitute for lost spectrum revenues. And remembrances of things past, whether they be the long-gone days of network TV hegemony or old stories in the local newspaper, are no way to deal with the problems of the present. 
   Uncle Miltie TV ownership rules don't work in a Chris rock media market. Let's face that fact, shed our outdated notions, and finish the job the FCC didn't 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Interior Appropriations bill funds critical programs that are vital to the protection of our nation's land and natural resources and supports federal programs for Native Americans, as well as several energy and agriculture programs. 
   I commend the managers of this bill for their efforts to keep spending in this bill within budget limitations as required by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. Unfortunately, I can still find in this bill and the committee report approximately $216 million in low-priority, unauthorized or unrequested spending that has not been considered in the normal merit-based review process. 
   In the usual fashion of appropriations bills and reports, little explanation is provided as to the merit or national priority of various projects receiving earmarks. We are left to imagine the reasons that certain projects, such the Bruneau Hot Springs Snail Conservation Committee or goose-related crop depredation projects in Washington and Oregon, are deserving of a $500,000 earmark each. 
   I am sure these projects are significant to the communities that would benefit from these directed funds. But we are unfairly singling out projects of parochial interest, rather than evaluating other more equally deserving projects that could be more significant to the protection of our land, forest or energy resources nationwide. 
   Not only do we undermine the value of our legislative process by this type of arbitrary spending, we betray the confidence of the American people who rely on our fair and equitable judgement to fund those projects of greatest need and priority. Instead, we reward their faith by choosing to provide $1 million of taxpayer funds to rehabilitate a bathhouse at Hot Springs National Park in Arkansas. I question the necessity of fixing up a public bathhouse when federal school facilities for Indian children are in a deplorable state of disrepair and ill maintenance. 
   In a similar fashion, $1 million is earmarked to support the Olympic Tree Program being developed by the Salt Lake Olympic committee. While our country takes great pride in hosting the international Olympics events, I find it difficult to fathom why we would expect the American people to accept the expenditure of a million dollars for this purely aesthetic purpose. 
   This bill also continues a disturbing trend of including legislative riders that, if enacted, will make substantive changes to current law and regulations. By using the appropriations process as a policy hammer, we are circumventing a fair and deliberative legislative review of the need for such changes. We also shortchange the interested public by eliminating their opportunity for input and participation. 
   I have heard from many interested parties who decry the inclusion of riders that will extend grazing permits without completion of due environmental analyses and a provision that overturns an administrative legal opinion regarding the amount of land that can be used for mining claims. I know that these are important issues in my state of Arizona, yet I am precluded from fully representing the interests of my constituents when legislative riders such as these are attached to an appropriations measure that must be passed within a very short timeframe with little to no opportunity to make changes. 
   Just yesterday, the Senate voted to restore Rule XVI which makes floor amendments of a policy nature out of order on an appropriations bill. I supported restoration of this Rule. Ironically, this Rule only applies to floor amendments. I believe very strongly that it should be applied to committee actions where a small minority of the Senate can act to include legislative riders on an appropriations bill without even consulting the relevant authorizing committees. I believe the Rule should be expanded to cover committee actions. 
   Mr. President, ensuring the protection of our nation's resources and meeting federal trust obligations to Native Americans are among our most important duties. With this type of shameful waste of taxpayer dollars and inappropriate legislative mandates on an appropriations measure, we are betraying our responsibility to spend the taxpayers' dollars responsibly and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans, rather than the special interests of a few. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I proudly join my colleagues as a founding member of this newly created Senate Wilderness and Public Lands Caucus. I congratulate my friend, Senator FEINGOLD, for his bold spirit and commitment to the active protection of our public lands. I accepted Senator FEINGOLD's invitation to participate in this new Caucus because we share a responsibility to protect the natural resources that sustain our world and grace the quality of our lives. 
   On this day, we commemorate the success of the 1964 Wilderness Act with a renewed commitment to responsible preservation. More than 35 years since the Act's passage, Americans can more readily cherish and enjoy pristine lands in their natural state, unencumbered by growth and development. An important goal of this new Caucus is the desire to improve our process for making important land management decisions impacting our public lands. 
   Developing consensus policy for public lands protection is of particular necessity and importance for western states. In Arizona, more than 80 percent of lands are held in public ownership, with 4.5 million acres designated as wilderness. Arizonans enjoy wilderness in such places as the Superstition Mountains, Cabeza Prieta, Baboquivari Peak and the Red Rock Secret Mountain. 
   Many more difficult land management decisions will require our thoughtful consideration. For example, the state of Arizona has grappled for more than ten years over the question of wilderness suitability for the state's largest national park, the Grand Canyon National Park. Arizonans are still engaged in deliberations of this important decision, as well as determining appropriate land management decisions for other areas in our state. 
   Each of us is well aware that public land management is divisive and, if not  carefully developed, can usually result in unfair games of give-and-take between land-users and conservationists. A fine balance between competing users has proved to be possible, and it is this balance toward which we must strive. I am joining with my colleagues in this Caucus because I believe that any decisions we make in the Congress for public land policy should heed the spirit of bipartisanship, promote the ethics of stewardship and multiple use, and protect individual rights. In general, we must ensure that all viewpoints on land-use issues are given fair opportunity to be heard. 
   We should find our inspiration in the example of a hero of mine, and a statesman of the highest virtue, Mo Udall, whose grace and wisdom should inspire every American. Mo once taught a freshman Congressman from the other side of the aisle a valuable lesson. He reached across party lines to enlist me in the effort to tackle environmental problems in our home state. 
   Mo's faith in the pursuit of cooperation and consensus enabled us to enact landmark legislation placing 3.5 million acres of pristine Arizona lands into the Wilderness Preservation System. Contrary to the predictions of naysayers and competing political interests, Mo Udall brought the Arizona congressional delegation together with broad support from the public. This was no simple task, but it worked, and Mo Udall demonstrated to his colleagues and constituents a successful formula for bringing together people of good faith and different perspectives to achieve a common purpose. 
   This new Caucus gives us an opportunity to uphold our commitment to responsible preservation while protecting the rights of all Americans for public use of lands. I encourage our colleagues, of all minds on this issue, to join in the Caucus so that our recommendations and discussions can be fully representative of all interested parties.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the American people want us to save Social Security. They want us to fix Medicare. They want us to give them more control over their children's education. They want us to cut back the size of the bloated Federal bureaucracy and pay down the debt. Those are the clearly stated priorities of the people we represent, those whose interests we are pledged to protect. 
   The Congress has tried to do something about the impending insolvency of the Social Security system, but we have been blocked by the President's disingenuous statements about the kind of lockbox legislation he could support. The President rejected the recommendations of the bipartisan commission that was created to provide a basis for preventing the bankruptcy of Medicare. The President has put politics ahead of the needs of the people, but, unfortunately, so have we. 
   The American people want, need, and deserve tax relief. They want us to reform and simplify our overly burdensome 44,000-page Tax Code that unfairly benefits special interests and overtaxes American families. 
   Yet, here we are debating the merits, or not, of an $800 billion tax relief bill that we know for a fact the President will veto. 
   Mr. President, let's be honest and acknowledge what's going on here. This bill is going nowhere. When it comes back to the Congress after the President's vetoes it, we should be prepared to set aside pure politics, and instead focus on producing results that benefit the American people. 
   Mr. President, there are some very good provisions in this bill that help American taxpayers keep more of their hard-earned money. But most of these very important tax provisions for average Americans are put off for the future, while many of the perks for big business and special interests take effect immediately. This bill delays meaningful tax relief for the average taxpayer until 2001 or later, yet it complicates the tax system with a raft of new and renewed exemptions, exceptions, and carve-outs for special interests that go into effect immediately. 
   Just under $6 billion of the entire $792 billion in tax relief in this bill is effective next year. Just 77 of the 180 provisions in this bill provide any tax relief at all in the year 2000. More than 80 percent of the tax cuts are delayed until 2005 or later. And after phasing in the most important provisions over a 10-year period, the whole tax cut package sunsets after 2009, when we would presumably revert to the burdensome and overly complex tax system with which we are struggling today. 
   I firmly believe we should repeal, once and for all, the disgraceful tax penalty that punishes couples who want to get married. This bill does provide relief from the onerous marriage penalty, but these important provisions do not even begin to take effect until 2001 and then they are phased in over a period of four or five years. 
   Income tax rate reductions don't start to phase in until 2001, and then only the lowest bracket sees a half-percent rate cut, while other rate cuts are delayed until 2005. In fact, according to an informal estimate I was given, an American family making $65,000 per year would get just $47 in tax cuts based on the income tax rate reductions in this bill in 2002. 
   We should also slash the death tax that prevents a father or a mother from leaving the hard-earned fruits of their labor to their children. There is absolutely no relief from the onerous death taxes in 2000. Estate tax reductions would be phased-in over a 9-year period until completely eliminated in 2009, but then this entire tax cut package would terminate and the death tax would be fully reinstated. 
   At the same time, poultry farmers get an immediate tax break, totaling $30 million over 10 years, to convert chicken manure into electricity. Small seaplane operators don't have to collect tickets taxes, starting immediately, giving them a break of $11 million. Manufacturers of fishing tackle boxes get an immediate excise tax break, so that they can more competitively price their tackle boxes to compete with the tool box industry. And the people who make and sell arrows for hunting fish and game get an immediate cut in their taxes. 
   Why are we giving a big break to chicken farmers when American families get not a dime in tax relief? Why don't people flying on seaplanes have to pay ticket taxes like people flying on other commuter planes? What compelling reason is there to give fishing tackle box manufacturers a tax break,  while family-owned businesses get no relief from the confiscatory death taxes for quite some time? 
   Many of the other provisions in this bill that provide tax relief for education, health care, and other issues important to American families are implemented gradually or simply delayed for several years. Likewise, some of the provisions that benefit small businesses and tax-exempt organizations do not take effect for a number of years. Yet most of the provisions that give even more tax breaks to the oil and gas industry, financial services companies, high tech industry, insurance companies, and defense industry take effect early. The priorities in this bill are seriously skewed in the wrong direction. 
   In addition, this bill does nothing to fundamentally reform our unfair and overly complex tax code. For years, and this bill is no exception, we have compounded the tax code's complexity and put tax loopholes for special interests ahead of tax relief for working families. The result is a tax code that is a bewildering 44,000 page catalogue of favors for a privileged few and a chamber of horrors for the rest of America--except perhaps the accountants and lawyers. 
   The special interest set-asides and carve-outs in this bill merely exacerbate the complexity of the tax code. This bill adds new loopholes, new schemes, new ideas to keep lawyers and accountants busy. 
   It is not right to pay back special interests ahead of American families. It is not fair to give more tax incentives and exemptions and cuts to big business, when individual taxpayers get no relief. 
   If this bill had any chance of becoming law, perhaps it would have been prioritized somewhat differently. 
   Mr. President, this tax bill is based on the premise that we will have nearly $3 trillion in the federal budget surplus over the next 10 years. Let's look at the priorities for those surplus funds. 
   Our first priority must be to lock up the Social Security Trust Funds to prevent Presidential or Congressional raids on workers' retirement funds to pay for so-called ``emergency'' spending or new big government programs. Most Americans don't share the view that dubious pork-barrel projects, such as millions of dollars in assistance to reindeer ranchers and maple sugar producers, should be treated as emergencies to be paid for with Social Security, but that is exactly what Congress did earlier this year. 
   That leaves nearly $1 trillion in non-Social Security revenue surpluses. I believe a healthy portion of the projected non-Social Security surplus should be returned to the American people in the form of tax cuts. I also believe we have a responsibility to balance the need for tax relief with other pressing national priorities. 
   After locking up the Social Security surpluses, I would dedicate 62 percent of the remaining $1 trillion in non-Social Security surplus revenues, or about $620 billion, to shore up the Social Security Trust Funds, extending the solvency of the Social Security system until at least the middle of the next century. The President promised to save Social Security, but he failed to include this proposal anywhere in his budget submission. In fact, he has since proposed or supported spending billions of dollars from the surplus on other government programs, depleting the funds needed to ensure retirement benefits are paid as promised. 
   I would also reserve 10 percent of the non-Social Security surplus to protect the Medicare system, and use 5 percent to begin paying down our $5.6 trillion national debt. 
   With the remaining $230 billion in surplus revenues, plus about $300 billion raised by closing inequitable corporate tax loopholes and ending unnecessary spending subsidies, I believe we could provide meaningful tax relief that benefits Americans and fuels the economy. 
   The bill before the Senate includes provisions that are similar to some of the proposals I would include in such a plan, which are targeted toward lower- and middle-income Americans, family farmers, small businessmen and women, and families. 
   I believe we should expand the 15% tax bracket to allow 17 million Americans to pay taxes at the lowest rate, and this bill reflects a similar focus. The bill also increases the income threshold for tax-deferred contributions to IRAs, although delayed, and very gradually increases 
    the amount that employees can contribute each year to employer-sponsored retirement plans. We should make these increases effective immediately to encourage more Americans to save now for their retirement. And this bill takes several steps to provide meaningful tax relief for American families by at least starting to eliminate the onerous marriage penalty and provide relief from confiscatory estate taxes. 
   What the bill before the Senate does not do is provide much-needed incentives for saving. Restoring to every American the tax exemption for the first $200 in interest and dividend income would go a long way toward reversing the abysmal savings rate in this country. 
   Most important, the bill does not eliminate immediately the Social Security earnings test. This tax unfairly penalizes senior citizens who choose to, or in many cases, have to work by taking away $1 of their Social Security benefits for every $3 they earn. There is no justifiable reason to force seniors with decades of knowledge and expertise out of the workforce by imposing such a punitive tax. And in our modern society, when many seniors have to work to survive, we should not keep this Depression-era relic in law. 
   This is the kind of package that I believe could form the basis of a tax cut bill that properly balances national priorities and provides fair tax relief to average Americans and their families without further complicating our tax code. It would be a better step in the right direction toward economically sound and equitable tax relief and provide incentives to undertake real reform of our tax system. 
   Mr. President, I will vote for the Taxpayer Refund and Relief Act because I believe it reflects a commitment to provide relief from a system that taxes your salary, your investments, your property, your expenses, your marriage, and your death. We must send a message to the American people and to the President that we must repeal the onerous marriage penalty and estate taxes that burden America's families. 
   This bill is not acceptable to me. Special interests get the biggest breaks, and they get them right away. All the American families get are the leftovers. My problem with this bill is not with the size of the tax cuts, but who benefits. 
   However, its passage and subsequent veto represent our only hope for meaningful tax relief for those working families who need it most. If this bill were to die today, so would the possibility of achieving meaningful tax relief this year. By passing this bill and forcing the President to address tax issues, I believe we hold open the possibility of entering into negotiations between the Administration and the Congress to provide meaningful tax relief for the benefit of all Americans. 
   The sad reality is that this bill will not give a single American family even one extra dollar in their pockets, because it will be vetoed as soon as it arrives at the White House. But after this bill is vetoed by the President, our responsibility to the people we represent must be to work to address their priorities. We must save Social Security, fix the Medicare system, and return to the people more control over their lives and the lives of their children and families. 
   At the same time, we can start to work on crafting a meaningful tax relief bill that truly benefits the American people--a tax bill that even President Clinton could not refuse to sign into law. That is what the American people want and need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I will offer an amendment to H.R. 2466, the FY 2000 Interior Appropriations bill, to authorize the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of Columbia to honor all disabled American veterans. This legislation is not controversial, costs nothing, and deserves immediate consideration and passage. 
   As a Nation, we owe a debt of gratitude to all Americans who have worn their country's uniform in the defense of her core ideals and interests. We honor their service with holidays, like Veterans Day and Memorial Day, and with memorials, including the Vietnam Wall and the Iwo Jima Memorial. But nowhere in Washington can be found a material tribute to those veterans whose physical or psychological well-being was forever lost to a sniper's bullet, a landmine, a mortar round, or the pure terror of modern warfare. 
   To these individuals, we owe a measure of devotion beyond that accorded those who served honorably but without permanent damage to limb or spirit. For these individuals, a memorial in Washington, D.C. would stand as testament to the sum of their sacrifices, and  as proof that the country they served values their contribution to its cause. 
   We cannot restore the health of those Americans who incurred a disability as a result of their military service. It is within our power, however, to authorize a memorial that would clearly signal the Nation's gratitude to all whose disabilities serve as a living reminder of the toll war takes on its victims. 
   Under the terms of this legislation, the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation would be solely responsible for raising the necessary funding. Our amendment explicitly requires that no Federal funds be used to pay any expense for the memorial's establishment. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me and Senators DASCHLE, COVERDELL, CLELAND, and KERREY in support of this legislation. America's disabled veterans, of whom Senator CLELAND himself is one of our most distinguished, deserve a lasting tribute to their sacrifice. They honored us with their service; let us honor them with our support today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to take a moment to draw my colleagues' attention to a program that, I think, deserves to be commended. It is called ``Fight for Your Rights: Take a Stand Against Violence.'' The purpose of the program is to give our nation's youth information and advice on how to cope with the epidemic of violence that is taking so many of their own. 
   The Departments of Justice, and Education are participants in the campaign, but what I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to is the role of MTV music television and the Recording Industry Association of America. 
   The most basic and profound responsibility that our culture--any culture--has, is raising its children. We are failing that responsibility, and the extent of our failure is being measured in the deaths, and injuries of our kids in the school yard and on the streets of our neighborhoods and communities. 
   Our children are killing each other, and they are killing themselves. 
   Primary responsibility lies with the family. As a country, we are not parenting our children. We are not adequately involving ourselves in our children's lives, the friends they hang out with, what they do with their time, the problems they are struggling with. This is our job, our paramount responsibility, and most unfortunately, we are failing. We must get our priorities straight, and that means putting our kids first. But, parents need help. 
   This is an extraordinarily complex problem. However, at its core, is a collapse of the value shaping institutions of our society. Our public schools are restricted from teaching basic morals and values. Stresses on families, the most basic value building institution in our society, the demands of two income households, and the breakdown of the traditional family structure are undermining our ability to raise decent and moral children. The marginalizing of the critical role of religion, of  churches and synagogues, in our modern society contributions to a youth culture devoid of moral responsibility and accountability. All of these factors conspire to disconnect our children from humanity, and are turning some of them into killers. 
   Our homes and our families--our children's minds, are being flooded by a tide of violence. This dehumanizing violence pervades our society: our movies depict graphic violence; our children are taught to kill and maim by interactive video games; the Internet, which holds such tremendous potential in so many ways, is tragically used by some to communicate unimaginable hatred, images and descriptions of violence, and ``how-to'' manuals on everything from bomb construction to drugs. 
   With the pressures of this modern society, the emphasis on technology, the demand for performance, the fast pace of events, our children seem to be increasingly isolated from family and peers. 
   If we are to turn this tide of youth violence, we must examine all of these factors together. We must develop a comprehensive understanding of how these factors interrelate to produce a child capable of the shocking violence unfolding in our streets and school yards. 
   I have repeatedly joined various of my colleagues in efforts to call the entertainment industry to task for creating and marketing violent products to children. Most recently, I joined in many of my distinguished colleagues, prominent Americans, and concerned citizens in an ``Appeal to Hollywood,'' asking the leaders of the entertainment industry to adopt a voluntary code of conduct exercising restraint from marking violence and smut to our nation's youth. I have also introduced legislation requiring the Surgeon General to complete a comprehensive study to determine the effect of media violence on children. I joined Senator Lieberman in calling for a special Youth Violence Study Commission that will study all of the various complex factors that conspire to generate such youth violence as we have recently witnessed. Earlier this year, I also introduced the Youth Violence Prevention Act, which targeted the various illegal ways by which our nation's children are gaining access to guns. As I have stated, this is a complex problem, and we must press the issue on all fronts. 
   For this reason, I wish to commend the efforts of MTV and the Recording Industry Association of America. The electronic media dominate much of our children's lives. They are the first generation of Americans to grow up entirely in a digital age. Much of what they see through the media is good. Some of it is both irresponsible and dangerous. 
   The ``Take a Stand Against Violence'' campaign represents the positive potential of the television and music industry. It is a positive campaign that engages the various factors that contribute to youth violence, and most important, it does so in a language that young people understand. As I believe the entertainment industry should be held responsible when they peddle violence and smut to America's youth, I equally believe that the industry should be given credit for the many positive things they do. 
   The epidemic of youth violence in our Nation is a complex challenge. It will only be solved if we all work together. Again, I urge all Americans to get involved in their kids' lives. Ask questions, listen to their fears and concerns, their hopes and their dreams. 
   Again, I think we should commend entertainment industry leaders when they take positive steps to curb the tide of youth violence. In particular, I want to commend MTV and the Recording Industry of America for the ``Take a Stand Against Violence'' campaign. It represents a very positive step, and should serve as an example for others in the entertainment field. 
   Mr. President, I ask that a summary of this program be inserted into the RECORD following my statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. I am pleased to introduce the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999. This measure is designed to remedy certain weaknesses regarding the Federal motor carrier safety program as identified by the Department of Transportation's Inspector General (DOT IG) in April 1999. The Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act also contains several new initiatives intended to advance safety on our nation's roads and highways. 
   The bill would establish a separate Motor Carrier Safety Administration within the DOT. That agency would be responsible for carrying out the Federal motor carrier safety enforcement and regulatory responsibilities currently held by the Federal Highway Administration. It would be headed by an Administrator, appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. 
   To guard against increasing the already bloated Federal bureaucracy, the bill would cap employment and funding at the levels currently endorsed by the Administration for motor carrier safety activities. This legislation also recognizes the significant differences between truck operations and passenger carrying operations and accordingly, would call for a separate division within the new agency to ensure commercial bus safety. 
   Aside from organizational issues, the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act would require the Department to implement all the IG's recently issued truck safety recommendations. DOT has indicated it will act on some of the recommendations, but it has failed to articulate a definitive action plan to implement all of the IG's recommendations. We should not risk the consequences of ignoring the IG's recommendations and this bill would require action to eliminate the identified safety gaps at DOT. In addition, it would authorize additional funding as requested by the Administration to address safety shortcomings. It also includes a number of items to address truck safety and enforcement, including provisions to strengthen the Commercial Drivers License Program, to improve data collection activities and to promote the accurate exchange of driver information among the states. 
   I want to take a moment to share with my colleagues how I reached the decision to develop this measure. 
   In the last Congress, a comprehensive package of motor carrier and highway safety provisions was enacted as part the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21). This package was developed over a two-year period. Throughout the 105th Congress, the primary impediment faced by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation when crafting our highway safety legislation was an insufficient allocation of contract authority from the highway trust fund. Despite this serious constraint, the Committee did succeed in raising the 
   authorizations for motor carrier and highway safety programs. At the same time, the Committee also succeeded in incorporating into TEA-21 almost every safety initiative brought to the Committee's attention. 
   Several months after TEA-21 was signed into law, I asked the IG to assess a proposal to move the then Office of Motor Carriers (OMC) form the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). The proposal was being advanced by the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation who was, and is, concerned about OMC's effectiveness in overseeing the safety of our nation's truck and bus industries, concerns I share overall. 
   The proposal, originally contained in an appropriations bill, was eliminated when it was brought to the House Floor. Consequently, I was surprised to learn of its resurrection as a line item in early drafts of the conference report on the Omnibus Appropriations Act for fiscal year 1999. I remind my colleagues that the transfer had never been included in any House or Senate-passed legislation, nor had any of the authorizing Committees of jurisdiction ever been asked to consider it at all in the 105th Congress. 
   Rather than enact measures that have surface appeal, it is the responsibility of the Congress to ascertain whether the proposals would be effective. I felt it very important that we first determine whether NHTSA was the most appropriate entity to oversee truck safety before requiring it to take on such critical yet unfamiliar responsibilities. That is why I asked for the IG's counsel. 
   I chaired a hearing in April at which the IG released his report and offered several ways to improve motor carrier safety. The IG's report does not endorse transferring the responsibilities to NHTSA. While this and several options were discussed, the IG stressed that the greatest problem impeding the effectiveness of the Office of Motor Carriers was a fundamental lack of leadership as currently structured. I repeat, the IG found that leadership was the greatest gap hindering truck safety advancements. 
   One way to raise the visibility of truck safety and bring leadership to motor carrier safety issues is to create an entity that has motor carrier safety as its sole purpose. Given that we have agencies responsible for air, rail, and highway safety, it seems within reason to provide similar treatment in this modal area, particularly given the many identified problems stemming from a lack of attention within its current structure. 
   Further, creating a direct link with the Office of the Secretary would guarantee that motor carrier safety share holders, including owners, operators, drivers, safety advocates and even government employees, would not be forced to vie for an agency's attention, forced to compete against highway construction and other interests as is currently the case. As we have regrettably learned, the scales of safety and highway construction are not balanced and we need to take action to alter this inequity. 
   Other legislative proposals have been offered in recent days. I assure my colleagues that I am willing to review those measures and listen to other suggestions to improve this legislation. 
   In the many meetings and hearings that have been held to discuss options to enhance highway safety, it became very clear that all motor carrier stake holders share a common goal. We want to improve truck and bus safety, decrease highway accidents, and reduce accident fatalities. I look forward to working with my colleagues, the Administration, highway safety groups, safety enforcement officials, and truck and motor coach representatives to achieve a realistic and effective safety bill. To attempt to do less would be an abrogation of our responsibility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I, with Senators HUTCHISON, FEINSTEIN, and MURKOWSKI, are introducing the United States Cruise Ship Tourism Development Act of 1999. The purposes of this bill is to provide increased domestic cruise opportunities for the American cruising public by temporarily reducing barriers to operation in the domestic cruise market. I want to start by thanking Senator HUTCHISON, who as Chairman of the Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee is continuing her efforts to help rebuild our nation's cruise ship industry. She along with Senators FEINSTEIN and MURKOWSKI are great partners to have as this legislation moves forward. 
   Americans today have a wide variety of choices when it comes to vacationing on large oceangoing cruise ships. However, due to barriers to entry that were created in 1886, the itineraries, with few exceptions, do not include domestic trade. Large cruise ship domestic trade options are currently limited to one ocean going cruise vessel in Hawaii. Also, the U.S. port calls on international itineraries are heavily concentrated in Florida and Alaska due to the proximity of these states to neighboring countries. This means that America's cruising public is denied the opportunity to cruise to many attractive U.S. port destinations, and those ports are denied the economic benefits of those visits. 
   We have an opportunity in this Congress to temporarily reduce barriers for entry into the domestic cruise ship trade, creating new U.S. jobs, and generating millions of dollars in new U.S. business without any cost to existing U.S. jobs. During the 105th Congress three separate bills addressing the domestic cruise ship trade were referred to the Commerce Committee. Unfortunately, we were not able to reach a consensus on any measure that would remove the barriers created in the law measure that would remove the barriers created in the law commonly referred to as the Passenger Vessel Services Act. I am hopeful that the bill that we are introducing today will see more success. 
   While I have made it clear in the past that I would like to do away with the trade barriers contained in the Passenger Vessel Services Act, this bill does not do that. What this bill does do is allow the Secretary of Transportation a limited time to waive certain coastwise trade restrictions. It is my strong belief that this will stimulate growth and opportunity within the domestice cruise ship trade with the beneficiaries being U.S. port cities and business, and more importantly, the millions of American citizens who want to be able to enjoy cruising between U.S. ports. I expect some of my colleagues on the on the Commerce Committee may want to make additional changes to this bill in Committee. I look forward to working these issues out with them in the coming months. 
   I believe it is important for this Congress to take action on this issue in order to maximize the economic growth potential of the domestic cruise ship trade and the cruising opportunities for America's public. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today, I am introducing legislation to authorize a three-year nationwide school choice demonstration program targeted at children from economically disadvantaged families. The program would expand educational opportunities for low-income children by providing parents and students the freedom to choose the best school for their unique academic needs, while encouraging schools to be creative and responsive to the needs of all students. 
   This legislation is identical to the school choice amendment which I offered on July 30, 1999 to S.1429, the Taxpayer Refund Act of 1999. I am gravely disappointed that the Senate failed to pass this amendment as a part of the Taxpayer Refund Act. However, I am committed to seeing it implemented before Congress adjourns this year and will be working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP) to ensure that this measure is implemented before Congress adjourns, perhaps as a part of the legislation reauthorizing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). 
   This bill authorizes $1.8 billion annually for fiscal years 2001 through 2003 to be used to provide school choice vouchers to economically disadvantaged children through the nation. The funds would be divided among the states based upon the number of children they have enrolled in public schools. Then, each state would conduct a lottery among low-income children who attend the public schools with the lowest academic performance in their state. Each child selected in the lottery would receive $2,000 per year for three years to be used to pay tuition at any school of their choice in the state, including private or religious schools. The money could also be used to pay for transportation to the school or supplementary educational services to meet the unique needs of the individual student. 
   In total, this bill authorizes $5.4 billion for the three-year school choice demonstration program, as well as a GAO evaluation of the program upon its completion. The cost of this important test of school vouchers is fully offset by eliminating more than $5.4 billion in unnecessary and inequitable corporate tax loopholes which benefits the ethanol, sugar, gas and oil industries. 
   First, the legislation eliminates tax credits for ethanol producers, eliminating a $1.5 billion subsidy. Ethanol is an inefficient, expensive fuel that has not lived up to claims that it would reduce reliance on foreign oil or reduce impact on the environment. It takes more energy to produce a gallon of ethanol than the amount of energy that a gallon of ethanol contains. Ethanol tax credits are simply a subsidy for corn producers, and the amendment ends the taxpayers' support for this outdated program. 
   Second, the bill eliminates three subsidies enjoyed by the oil and gas industry, totaling $3.9 billion. It phases out oil and gas industry's special right to fully deduct capital costs for drilling, exploration and development; eliminates the 15 percent tax credit for recovering oil using particular methods; and ends special right of oil and gas property owners to claim unlimited passive losses under income and alternative minimum tax provisions. Subsidizing the cost of domestic production has not been shown to have reduced reliance on foreign oil or directly contributed to more efficient resource use or domestic productivity. This bill would end these special tax treatments. 
   Finally, this measure eliminates the special loan program for sugar producers and processors, worth $390 million. The federal government is burdened with an unnecessary and unprofitable loan program for bug sugar producers and enforcing mandated import  quotas on foreign sugar. Sugar price supports also force consumers to pay $1.4 billion every year in artificially inflated sugar prices. This bill simply eliminates the taxpayer-funded loan program in 2003 and immediately requires repayment of existing loans in case, rather than sugar. 
   These tax benefits and subsidies were originally intended to serve a limited purpose during times of economic recession and hardship in the 1970's. Our economy has long since recovered and I believe that these subsidies have outlived its purpose. The sunset of these programs will end these corporate welfare programs and return any remaining benefit back to our Nation's children. 
   Mr. President, we all know that one of the most important issues facing our nation is the education of our children. Providing a solid, quality education for each and every child in our nation is a critical component in their quest for personal success and fulfillment. A solid education for our children also plays a pivotal role in the success of our nation; economically, intellectually, civically and morally. 
   We must strive to develop and implement initiatives which strengthen and improve our education system thereby ensuring that our children are provided with the essential academic tools for succeeding professionally, economically and personally. I am sure we all agree that increasing the academic performance and skills of all our nation's students must be the paramount goal of any education reform we implement. 
   School vouchers are a viable method of allowing all American children access to high quality schools, including private and religious schools. Every parent should be able to obtain the highest quality education for their children, not just the wealthy. Tuition vouchers would finally provide low-income children trapped in mediocre, or worse, schools the same educational choices as children of economic privilege. 
   Some of my colleagues may argue that vouchers would divert money away from our nation's public schools and instead of instilling competition into our school systems we should be pouring more and more money into poor performing public schools. I respectfully disagree. While I support strengthening financial support for education in our nation, the solution to what ails our system is not simply pouring more and more money into it. 
   Currently our Nation spends significantly more money than most countries and 
   yet our students scored lower than their peers from almost all of the forty countries which participated in the last Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMMS) test. Students in countries which are struggling economically, socially and politically, such as Russia, outscored U.S. children in math and scored far above them in advanced math and physics. Clearly, we must make significant changes beyond simply pouring more money into the current structure in order to improve our children's academic performance in order to remain a viable force in the world economy. 
   It is shameful that we are failing to provide many of our children with adequate training and quality academic preparation for the real world. The number of college freshman who require remedial courses in reading, writing and mathematics when they begin their higher education is unacceptably high. In fact, presently, more than 30 percent of entering freshman need to enroll in one or more remedial course when they start college. It does not bode well for our future economy if the majority of workers are not prepared with the basic skills to engage in a competitive global marketplace. 
   I concede that school vouchers are not the magic bullet for eradicating all that is wrong with our current educational system, but they are an important opportunity for providing improved academic opportunities for all children, not just the wealthy. Examination of the limited voucher programs scattered around our country reveal high levels of parent and student satisfaction, an increase in parental involvement, and a definite improvement in attendance and discipline at the participating schools. Vouchers encourage public and private schools, communities and parents to all work together to raise the level of education for all students. Through this bill, we have the opportunity to replicate these important attributes throughout all our nation's communities. 
   Thomas Jefferson said, ``The purpose of education is to create young citizens with knowing heads and loving hearts.'' If we fail to give our children the education they need to nurture their heads and hearts, then we threaten their futures and the future of our nation. Each of us is responsible for ensuring that our children have both the love in their hearts and the knowledge in their heads to not only dream, but to make their dreams a reality. 
   The time has come for us to finally conduct a national demonstration of school choice to determine the benefits or perhaps disadvantages of providing educational choices to all students, not just those who are fortunate enough to be born into a wealthy family. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and put the needs of America's school children ahead of the financial gluttony of big business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the National Marine Sanctuaries Amendments Act of 1999. I want to thank Senator Snowe for sponsoring this legislation. This bill will help guide the use of the our marine environment into the next century. Again, I wish to thank Senator SNOWE for her leadership in this area. 
   The 12 existing national marine sanctuaries protect our marine resources while facilitating ``compatible'' public and private uses of the ocean. The National Marine Sanctuaries Program reflects a responsible balance between conservation and multiple uses, such as commercial fishing and recreational activities. In addition, the national sanctuaries provide for important research, outreach, and educational activities involving unique marine assets. 
   To date, the sanctuary program has been unable to reach its full potential due to a lack of funding. This bill will make existing sanctuaries fully operational for the first time in the history of the program. The bill we are introducing today authorizes $30 million in FY 2000 and incrementally increases the annual authorization by $2 million a year to $38 million in FY 2004. The bill will also allow for the completion of basic tasks which have been neglected in the past at sanctuaries, such as a review of each sanctuary management plan and habitat characterizations. The research and educational opportunities provided by this legislation are quite promising and will allow our children and future generations to learn to value our ocean resources.  
   The bill also provides for the implementation of meaningful enforcement plans and allows sanctuaries to partner with states or other entities to enhance enforcement efforts. Furthermore, interference with an enforcement agent could result in a criminal penalty. 
   Mr. President, this is a strong bill that enjoys bipartisan support on the Commerce Committee. With this legislation, Senator SNOWE and I envision a reasonable balance between conservation and the compatible multiple uses of our ocean resources in marine sanctuaries. I look forward to moving this bill in the near future and request the support of my colleagues. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, after the disposal of the Roberts amendment, it is my understanding that there would then be room for amendments; is that correct? I ask the parliamentary situation after the disposal of the Roberts amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that my amendment be in order after the disposal of the Roberts amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. It is the elimination of the sugar quota. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my friend. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, if it is agreeable with the distinguished managers on both sides, I offer a unanimous consent agreement for 1 hour equally divided, 30 minutes on either side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the regular order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask to be recognized for as much time as I may use. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I have offered this amendment for myself, Senator GREGG--I am sure Senator FEINSTEIN--that will prohibit the Agriculture Department from using Federal funding for administering the various and sundry programs that benefit the sugar industry. This amendment is carefully tailored by just cutting off funds so that it is not in violation of rule XVI. 
   The amendment is to send a strong signal to my colleagues that it is time to end the heavily subsidized sugar program. The Federal Government is burdened with an unnecessary and unprofitable loan program for big sugar producers and enforcing mandated import quotas on foreign sugar. 
   The sugar program has long since outlived its purpose. It was originally enacted in the Depression era to aid our flailing economy. As our economy resurged, the need for sugar subsidies diminished. Congress recognized this by eliminating the program in 1974, but  proponents of the sugar program were able to resurrect it in 1981 proving again that in this city nothing is ever effectively killed if it is subsidized to special interests. Efforts were made to abolish the program once again in the 1996 farm bill, but defenders of the sugar program kept it alive and even extended it. 
   The sugar program is a system of Federally-subsidized loans, import restrictions and protective price supports that equates to little more than corporate welfare. The present program restricts foreign competition and ensures a high domestic price for sugar far in excess of world prices. The Agriculture Department also guarantees loans for sugar processors and producers that may not be fully repaid in dollars back to the Government. The current law allows loan borrowers to pledge sugar as collateral to satisfy repayment obligations. 
   Several independent reviews of the sugar program have demonstrated that the biggest economic burden of this program falls on the American taxpayers. The Heritage Foundation stated that ``the sugar program is big government and corporate welfare at its worst.'' Given the big government and corporate welfare we have in this town, that is a pretty impressive statement. The Coalition for Sugar Reform, counting among its members such groups as the National Audubon Society and Citizens Against Government Waste, and others, has touted this program as burdensome and unfair to the consumer. These groups are leaders in advocating for reform and eventual elimination of this costly subsidy. 
   The continuing existence of the sugar program has resulted in U.S. consumers paying three times the current world price for sugar and sugar-contained products. The General Accounting Office estimates that sugar price supports force American consumers to pay $1.4 billion every year in artificially inflated sugar prices. Mandatory price quotas keep the price of American-grown sugar at roughly 22 cents a pound compared to 6 cents a pound for sugar grown in other parts of the world. 
   This is truly outrageous. Defenders of the sugar program support these inflated consumer prices by claiming that the sugar program is critical to the viability of our domestic sugar industry. Reports have shown that we are hurting our viability as a domestic sugar industry by continuing this program because America's farmers cannot compete with foreign 
   markets and are forced to close sugar refineries. Since this program has been in effect, 12 of the 22 U.S. sugar refineries have been forced to close, eliminating thousands of jobs. 
   In the February 1998 Reader's Digest, there is a story about the Nation's largest candy-cane manufacturer opening a plant in Jamaica in order to stay competitive with foreign companies. Sugar prices in Jamaica are as much as 50 percent cheaper than in the U.S. 
   Yet, the sugar program continues to reap benefits for a small sector of the sugar economy. Only by political clout has this corporate welfare program survived. 
   A close examination of this program reveals that its true benefits are only realized by big sugar tycoons. Less than one percent of the Nation's sugar growers gobble up 58 percent of the program benefits. These are not small family farmers. In a recent year, 33 cane sugar growers obtained more than $1 million each from this Government boondoggle. In fact, one grower received $65 million. 
   The average consumer is not aware that food products, like candy, cereal or ice cream, are subject to a higher price dictated by the Federal Government--and it is a price that is likely to be twice as high because of sugar price supports. Not too many average grocery shoppers realize they are paying at least 10 cents more per pound of sugar because of these costly sugar mandates. 
   We cannot ask American consumers to continue to pay more for sugar than the rest of the world. This richly sweet program for big sugar producers has a sour aftertaste for average citizens and our Nation's economy. 
   What I am proposing, because of rule XVI, is simply a one-year halt to the sugar program. The American consumers would be held harmless for one year to give us time to undertake a long overdue debate on legislation to reform and phase out the sugar program. 
   This amendment retains the sugar industry's responsibility to pay a miniscule assessment on domestic sugar, although I would be glad to eliminate that. I do not think that is a very important aspect of this amendment. With all the benefits received by the sugar industry, this relatively small assessment is supposed to be the sugar industry's sole contribution to reducing annual budget deficits. Last year, this assessment generated $37.8 million in revenues. With all that the Federal Government and the American consumers have spent over the years to support this inflated sugar program, this modest return of revenues to the treasury is certainly warranted, although I would be glad to eliminate it. 
   I believe we should end the subsidies to the sugar industry and eliminate the sugar program that is unfair to consumers. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and bring fairness back to our American consumers. 
   Mr. President, in the New York Times of Monday, July 14, 1997, they talked about:  
   ..... $1.5 billion a year from consumers to a handful of large sugar growers. Almost half of the benefits from the sugar program go to little more than 1 percent of growers..... . 
   There is a second, powerful reason to eliminate sugar subsidies. They breed excessive production of sugar cane in environmentally sensitive areas. In the Florida Everglades, about a half-million acres of wetlands have been converted to sugar cane production. Excessive sugar cane production has interrupted water flows and contaminated the Everglades with polluted agricultural run-off.  
   When I argue for campaign finance reform, I refer to a well-known family in Florida that has realized the American dream, the Fanjul brothers. Alfonso Fanjul is the chairman and chief executive officer of Flo-Sun, a prominent Democrat who cochaired President Clinton's 1992 Florida campaign. 
   Jose ``Pepe'' Fanjul, is a prominent Republican who served on the campaign finance committee of 1996 GOP Presidential candidate Bob Dole. He also is vice chairman of the National Republican Party's finance committee. 
   They are major--major--givers of soft money, major contributors. 
   I will include in the RECORD that during the 1995-1996 election cycle, members of the Fanjul family contributed $774,500 to Federal campaigns. It is an excellent investment. In return, a grateful Congress maintains a sugar price support program worth approximately $65 million annually to the Fanjuls. 
   That is a pretty good investment; and they are getting a great return on it. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I think we have to go back and forth. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield 10 minutes to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to modify my amendment by removing part (b) of this amendment. That has to do with the marketing assessment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am always entertained by this debate, especially by my friend. I understand the argument of my friends on the other side of the aisle because they have a philosophy concerning big government and government has the answer to our problems and we should subsidize industries and also practice protectionism. I understand that. 
   It is a little harder for me to understand the philosophy on this side of the aisle, which is supposed to be less government, less regulation, fewer subsidies, lower taxes, and looking out for the individual. 
   The combination of import restrictions, guaranteed prices, and subsidized loans keep the prices artificially high. There is no objective economist in America who will disagree with that. There will be people in the sugar growing industry and those who represent States where sugar is grown, but that is a fact. It transfers about $1.5 billion a year from consumers to a handful of large sugar growers. Almost half the benefits from the sugar program go to little more than 1 percent of growers. The high prices act as a tax on food, and it hits hardest at poor families who typically spend a large fraction of their budget on food and other necessities. 
   If this proposal passes, according to any objective economist, including our much respected Heritage Foundation and others, the sugar price could fall 20 cents for a 5-pound bag. 
   The advocates justify their subsidies as needed to counter foreign subsidized imports and protect the jobs of domestic workers. Neither argument withstands scrutiny. There are ample rules to prevent foreign countries from dumping Government-subsidized sugar in the U.S. markets. Also, by propping up raw sugar prices, the program has driven half the U.S. sugar refiners out of business or out of the country, taking the jobs with them. 
   Mr. President, I am sorry to see the Senator from Florida defend the sugar growers because everybody knows, and any environmental organization will agree, that what has happened in the Everglades has caused enormous damage. 
   I ask unanimous consent for 60 more seconds. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Whether they are willing to kick in and fix it is one thing, but I think any environmental organization would attest to the fact that the increase of a half million acres of sugar growing around the Everglades has done significant damage to the Everglades. 
   I am glad they are being forced to pay for part of the cleanup since they are clearly a great part of the problem. I also think it is wrong when one family gets $35 million in subsidies--35 million of taxpayer dollars. I think it is wrong. I think most Americans think it is wrong, too. I do not expect to win this amendment, but some day we are going to realize that by subsidizing big producers, whether they be for sugar or anything else, the American people will grow a little weary of this kind of expenditure of their taxpayer dollars and demand we change. 
   I yield back my remaining time. I ask for the yeas and nays on the motion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990804</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, this agriculture appropriations bill provides annual funding for our nation's farmers, producers and the agency supporting our agricultural industry, the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The chairman and his colleagues on the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee deserve much credit for their work on this bill, which ensures funding for fundamental programs to support agricultural, rural development and nutrition programs. Unfortunately, the process by which appropriators continue to add wasteful and unnecessary spending to this important funding measure is unacceptable. 
   Each year, I am amazed by arbitrary fashion in which the appropriations committees choose to allocate the strict federal dollars that we should reserve for important and necessary federal programs. At the expense of our American taxpayers, this bill and its accompanying report are riddled with unrequested, low-priority earmarks, representing $170 million in additional spending. 
   The agriculture appropriations bill is a haven for members to tack on unrequested and unauthorized funding for special interest projects, particularly in sections of the accompanying Senate report dealing with the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service. For example, 114 out of a total 118 projects funded under the section for special research grants are either unrequested or received additional funding above the budget request. Over 90 projects under the Agriculture Research Service were targeted for termination by the administration, yet a majority of these projects continue to receive funding in this bill. 
   These actions lead me to ask a fundamental question. What is the purpose of conducting a formal budget process when the Appropriations Committee exhibits such carte blanche authority to fund projects which have not been considered in our established authorization and funding process? I review all of the annual appropriations bills, yet I have rarely seen such flagrant examples of egregious spending as those included in this bill. 
   In the Senate report, the appropriations committee state their commitment to only fund priority projects,  yet earmarks are approved for such projects as $300,000 for cereal rust research in St. Paul, MN. No information is provided for members to determine what kind of project deals with ``cereal rust'' and why this project deserves a specific earmark of nearly a third of a million dollars. 
   Other earmarks include $500,000 for swine waste management in North Carolina, $100,000 to reduce damages and manage populations of fish-eating birds which prey on farm-raised cattle in the Mid-south area, and an increase of $452,000 to support the sterile fly release in San Joaquin Valley. It is incredible to me, and no doubt to the American people, that we speak of fiscal responsibility and budget constraints in one manner, and yet act in a diametrically opposite manner wasting enormous amounts of funding for projects that appear to have little relationship to improving the agricultural economy. 
   Some projects may be meritorious, such as potato research and weed control, but are these problems specific only to certain states like Washington and North Dakota? Enough to receive not only an earmark, but an increase above the requested levels? I am certain that my constituents in Arizona can attest to the need for funding to monitor certain crops and deal with problems of weed control, yet they are unable to compete for funding to address these issues when decisions are based more on parochial interests rather than national priority. 
   This bill goes beyond the traditional earmarking process by selecting particular sites across the country to receive additional spending for extra staff and personnel. Why are these facilities receiving direct funding for additional staff at a time when each agency is required to abide by the mandate of the Government Performance and Results Act to operate more efficiently with less bureaucracy? Even if these positions are critical, why are they not prioritized in the normal administrative process? 
   In various parts of the bill and report, the committee includes express language which all but provides direct earmarks for certain projects and grantees and effectively intervenes in what is supposed to be a competitive grant process outside the realm of political influences. For example, in the Senate report, language is included which states the committee's expectation that the Administration give full consideration to an application for funds to construct a new facility for the St. Paul Island Health Clinic in Alaska and other language which urges the Administration to consider applications from the State of Alabama for projects benefitting Montgomery, State Farmer's Market and other farmers in the State. 
   We are invested with the responsibility to fully consider and debate the appropriate expenditure of federal funds. I commend Senator COCHRAN, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Agriculture Appropriations, for his floor statement in which he stated that the committee sought to apply funding in a ``reasonable and thoughtful way.'' Unfortunately, the pork in this bill and report prove that the Appropriations Committee is still unable to curb its appetite for unnecessary and wasteful spending. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, as I travel around the country, I see the devastation caused by the ongoing drought in many sections of the country. Crops are stunted and dying, fields are dusty, streams and lakes are drying up. Many farmers are still reeling from the effects of last year's Asian economic crisis. Clearly, some form of assistance is needed to prevent the demise of more of America's family farms, and I support efforts to provide needed government aid to farmers and their families. 
   Both pending proposals specify that aid to farmers is to be considered emergency spending, which is not counted against the budget caps. Mr. President, again, I recognize the dire circumstances that have many Americans in the agriculture industry facing economic ruin. However, already this year, the Senate has approved appropriations bills containing $7.9 billion in wasteful and unnecessary spending. Surely, among these billions of dollars, there are at least a few programs that we could all agree are lower priority than desperately needed aid for America's farmers. 
   My colleagues should be aware that every dollar spent above the budget caps is a dollar that comes from the budget surplus. This year, the only surplus is in the Social Security accounts, so this farm aid will be paid for by further exacerbating the impending financial crisis in the Social Security Trust Funds. And every dollar that is spent on future emergencies comes from the surplus we just promised last week to return to the American people in the form of tax relief. It is the same surplus that we have to use to shore up Social Security and Medicare, and begin to pay down the national debt. 
   Unfortunately, though, it seems to be easier to slap on an emergency designation, rather than try to find lower priority spending cuts as offsets. 
   Once again, Mr. President, Congress is taking its usual opportunistic approach to any disaster or emergency--adding billions of dollars in non-emergency spending and policy proposals to the emergency farm aid proposals. 
   The competing amendments pending before the Senate contain provisions that provide special, targeted relief to certain sectors of the agricultural community. For example, in addition to the billions of dollars of assistance payments for which all farmers would be eligible: 
   Both proposals single out peanut producers for special direct payments to partially compensate them for low prices and increasing production costs. 
   The Republican proposal also provides $50 million to be used to assist fruit and vegetable producers, at the Secretary of Agriculture's discretion. 
   Both proposals give the Secretary of Agriculture broad authority to provide some kinds of assistance to livestock and dairy producers, the only difference being the amount of money set aside for this unspecified relief. The Democrats set aside $750 million, the Republicans $325 million. 
   Both proposals set up more restrictive import quotas and new price supports for cotton producers. 
   Both proposals provide $328 million in direct aid for tobacco farmers. 
   The Republican proposal also specifically targets $475 million for direct payments to oilseed producers, most of which is to be paid to soybean producers. 
   The Democrat proposal, which is about $3 billion more expensive than the Republican proposal, expands to address non-agricultural disaster-related requirements, such as wetlands and watershed restoration and conservation, short-term land diversion programs, and flood prevention projects. It also establishes a new $500 million disaster reserve account, in anticipation of future disasters, I assume. But the proposal then adds a number of very narrowly targeted provisions and  provisions wholly unrelated to the purposes of aiding economically distressed farmers, including:  
   --$40 million for salaries and expenses of the Farm Service Agency, apparently to administer $100 million in new loan funds; 
   --$100 million for rural economic development; 
   --$50 million for a new revolving loan program for farmer-owned cooperatives; 
   --$4 million to implement a new mandatory price reporting program for livestock; 
   --$8 million for a new product labeling system for imported meat; 
   --$1 million for rapid response teams to enforce the Packers and Stockyards Act; and 
   finally, 
   --$15 million for a Northeast multispecies fishery.  
   These provisions have no place in a bill to provide emergency assistance to America's farmers. There is an established process for dealing with spending and policy matters that are not emergencies. It is the normal authorization and appropriations process, where each program or policy can be assessed as part of a merit-based review. Many of the provisions I have listed above may very well be meritorious and deserving of support and funding, but the process we are following here today does not provide an appropriate forum for assessing their relative merit compared to the many other important programs for which non-emergency dollars should be made available. I think even some of the potential recipients of these non-emergency programs would agree that they should be considered in the normal appropriations and authorization processes. 
   There is one special interest provision of the Republican proposal that I would like to discuss further and that I intend to address directly in an amendment later in the debate. The Republican proposal gives the already heavily subsidized sugar industry one more perk--relief from paying a minuscule assessment of just 25 cents on each 100 pounds of sugar. This tiny tax raised just $37.8 million last year, and was supposed to be the sugar industry's sole contribution to reducing annual budget deficits. Thanks to their successful lobbying, for the next three years, big sugar will not have to pay this assessment if the federal government has a budget surplus. While the assessment was initially imposed to help reduce annual budget deficits, which fortunately have been eliminated as a result of the Balanced Budget Act, what about the $5.6 trillion national debt? 
   This little bit of targeted tax relief for big sugar comes on top of a $130 million per year government-subsidized loan program for sugar producers, and price supports that cost American consumers over $1.4 billion a year in higher sugar prices at the store. The sponsors of the proposal make no claim that this provision is in any way related to a disaster or drought-related economic crisis in the sugar industry that would merit its inclusion in this emergency farm aid bill. Its inclusion simply adds one more perk to the already broad array of special subsidies for big sugar companies. 
   I intend to offer an amendment later during the debate on this bill to terminate taxpayer support of the sugar industry. If the Republican farm aid proposal is adopted, as I expect it will be, I will include in my amendment a proposal to strike this newly created perk for big sugar. 
   Mr. President, I am going to support the more modest Republican proposal, regardless of the outcome of my amendment to eliminate the inequitable and unnecessary sugar subsidies. But I do so only because of the real economic hardship faced by many of our nation's farmers and their families. 
   I abhor the continuing practice of attaching pork-barrel spending to any and every bill that comes before the Senate, especially when real disasters are cynically exploited to designate pork as emergency spending. This kind of fiscal irresponsibility undermines the balanced budget and hinders debt reduction efforts, exacerbates the need to preserve and protect Social Security and Medicare, and threatens efforts to provide meaningful tax relief to American families. 
   Once again, I can only hope that the final farm aid proposal will be targeted only at those in need--America's farmers. I urge the conferees on this legislation to eliminate the provisions that solely benefit special interests who have once again managed to turn needed emergency relief into opportunism. I also urge the conferees to seek offsets for the additional spending in this bill, to avoid again dipping into the Social Security surplus and putting our balanced budget at risk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to co-sponsor legislation with my colleagues, Senators DASCHLE and INOUYE, to amend the Social Security Act and extend eligibility for Indian tribes to fully implement, like states, the Title IV-E Foster Care and Adoption Assistance Act. This important legislation will finally allow Indian children living in tribal areas to have the same access to services of the Title IV-E Foster Care and Adoption Assistance Program enjoyed by other children nationwide. 
   The purpose of the Title IV-E program is to ensure that children receive adequate care when placed in foster care and adoption programs. The Title IV-E program operates as an open-ended entitlement program for eligible state governments with approved plans. State governments receive funding for foster care maintenance payments to cover food, shelter, clothing, school supplies, and liability insurance for income-eligible children placed in foster homes by state courts, and for related administrative and training costs. 
   While Congress intended that the Title IV-E program should benefit all eligible children, Indian children who are under the jurisdiction of their tribal court are not eligible. When enacted, the Title IV-E law did not properly consider that Indian tribal governments retain sole jurisdiction over the domestic affairs of their own tribal members, particularly Indian children. 
   State administrators have attempted to meet the intended goals of these programs by extending their efforts to Indian country. However, administrative and jurisdictional hurdles make it nearly impossible to provide these services. As a result, Indian children in need of foster care and child support are not accorded the same level of service as other children nationwide. Tribal governments, who are legally responsible for Indian children in foster care, are not entitled to federal reimbursement for children placed in foster care by a tribal court, unless the tribe, as a public agency, enters into a cooperative agreement with the state. 
   A cooperative agreement may not sound all that difficult, but in reality, such an agreement can prove impossible. Rather than providing incentives, current law more often discourages states from entering into agreements with tribes. For example, a state is accountable for tribal compliance with Title IV-E requirements. If a tribe cannot fulfill a matching requirement, the state must assume the costs on behalf of the tribe in order to retain federal funds. It is entirely possible that states could lose their Title IV-E funds if tribal records were out of compliance. 
   State-tribal relations are not always productive, particularly when disputes arise over issues unrelated to child welfare. Providing this direct eligibility for tribal governments, with the same accountability and enforcement requirements, will resolve such problems. State agencies have indicated that direct participation by the tribes would help address an overburden of casework and preclude tension over jurisdictional issues. 
   I want to make clear that enactment of this legislation will in no way supplant or discourage State-tribal agreements. Existing agreements will be honored, while allowing Indian tribes to directly access needed resources for further protection for income-eligible Indian children. 
   I also want to comment briefly on efforts made by the Administration to implement a limited pilot program to provide direct authority to tribes to administer the Title IV-E and Title IV-B programs. The 1997 Adoption and Safe Families Act authorized up to ten demonstration programs. Five demonstration programs have been approved by the Administration to meet the needs of Indian children. I applaud the initiative, but this limited approval will not extend to any other tribe who may choose to administer their own programs and the needs of many Indian children will still be unmet. I sincerely hope the Administration would seek to include five more tribes as participants in the demonstration program. 
   We sought to include similar eligibility provisions in the 1996 Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act, but were unsuccessful in finding the necessary off-sets to pay for this program. 
   The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that this legislation would cost $236 million over a five-year period, which generally amounts to less than one percent of total Federal Title IV-E expenditures. While this legislation does not currently include any identified off-sets to pay for adding tribal eligibility for this entitlement program, I have assurances from Senators DASCHLE and INOUYE that the inclusion of off-sets, prior to final passage, will in no way affect the Social Security Trust Fund or increase the federal debt. We have pledged to work together to find necessary and agreeable off-sets for this program. 
   Mr. President, enactment of this legislation will bring an end to the disparate treatment of eligible Indian children under Title IV-E programs. I urge my colleagues to correct this unfair oversight and make the benefits of the Title IV-E entitlement program available for all children as intended. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 1397 and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, my amendment would create a national three-year school choice demonstration for children from economically disadvantaged families and the cost of this is fully paid for by eliminating unnecessary corporate subsidies for the ethanol, oil, gas, and sugar industries. 
   This demonstration would provide educational opportunities for low-income children by providing parents and students the freedom to choose the  best school for their unique academic needs, while encouraging schools to be creative and responsive to the needs of all students. 
   Each eligible child would receive $2,000 each year for attending any school of their choice--including private or religious schools. 
   In total, the amendment authorizes $5.4 billion for the three-year school choice demonstration program, as well as a GAO evaluation of the program upon its completion. The cost of this important test of school vouchers is fully offset by eliminating more than $5.4 billion in unnecessary and inequitable corporate tax loopholes which benefit the ethanol, sugar, gas and oil industries. 
   These tuition vouchers would help provide over 1 million low-income children trapped in poor performing schools the same educational choices as children of economic privilege. 
   Providing educational choice to low-income children is an important step in ensuring all our children, not just wealthy children can make their dreams a reality. 
   We can not afford to continue subsidizing the ethanol, sugar, oil and gas industries at a time when we are struggling to save Social Security and Medicare, provide much needed and deserved tax relief to American families and strengthening our investment in the health, security and education of our children--our future. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as one who has advocated tax relief and reform for American families throughout my 17 years in Congress, I welcome the opportunity to speak on the Taxpayer Refund Act of 1999. 
   Americans want, need, and deserve tax relief. The government takes too much of the American people's earnings to fund the bloated bureaucracy in Washington. The notion that the government knows better than families how to spend their money is absurd. Americans should be able to keep much more of their hard-earned money to use and invest for themselves and their family's future. 
   Not only do Americans want and need tax relief, they also deserve fundamental reform of our unfair and overly complex tax code. For years, and this bill is no exception, we have compounded the tax code's complexity and put tax loopholes for special interests ahead of tax relief for working families. The result is a tax code that is a bewildering 44,000 page catalogue of favors for a privileged few and a chamber of horrors for the rest of America--except perhaps the accountants and lawyers. 
   No one can possibly believe it's fair to tax your salary, your investments, your property, your expenses, your marriage, and your death. Taxes claim nearly 40 percent of the average taxpayer's income. This is simply not right. 
   This bill takes several steps toward relieving that excessive tax burden, and I congratulate the Chairman and his colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee for their hard work in crafting this bill for the Senate's consideration. 
   There are many good provisions in this bill, and I intend to support it in the hope that a conference agreement can be reached that provides meaningful tax relief and that the President will sign into law. However, I am concerned that the majority of the tax relief proposed in this bill will not be available to taxpayers for several years. The bill also excludes other very good ideas but includes several provisions that are clearly intended to benefit special interests. I hope the amendment process, limited though it is by the Senate's arcane rules for dealing with reconciliation measures, will improve it before we are asked to vote on final passage. 
   Mr. President, the latest reports project a nearly $3 trillion federal budget surplus over the next 10 years. About two-thirds of the projected surplus comes from Social Security payroll taxes that are deposited in the Social Security Trust Funds, and must be kept away from spendthrift politicians to ensure that Social Security benefits are paid as promised. Our first priority must be to lock up the Social Security Trust Funds to prevent Presidential or Congressional raids on workers' retirement funds to pay for so-called ``emergency'' spending or new big government programs. Most Americans don't share the view that dubious pork-barrel projects, such as millions of dollars in assistance to reindeer ranchers and maple sugar producers, should be treated as emergencies to be paid for with their Social Security taxes, but that is what Congress did earlier this year. 
   That leaves nearly $1 trillion in non-Social Security revenue surpluses. Now, the typical Washington response would be to spend the money on new government programs and bureaucracies. Let me state very clearly that I vehemently oppose the view that ``growing government'' should be a national priority. To the contrary, our goal should be to continue to shrink the size of the federal government, returning more power and money to the people. 
   I firmly believe a healthy portion of the projected non-Social Security surplus should be returned to the American people in the form of tax cuts. I also believe we have a responsibility to balance the need for tax relief with other pressing national priorities. 
   After locking up the Social Security surpluses, I would dedicate 62 percent of the remaining $1 trillion in non-Social Security surplus revenues, or about $620 billion, to shore up the Social Security Trust Funds, extending the solvency of the Social Security system until at least the middle of the next century. The President promised to save Social Security, but he failed to include this proposal anywhere in his budget submission. In fact, he has since proposed or supported spending billions of dollars from the surplus on other government programs, depleting the funds needed to ensure retirement benefits are paid as promised. 
   I would also reserve 10 percent of the non-Social Security surplus to protect the Medicare system, and use 5 percent to begin paying down our $5.6 trillion national debt. 
   With the remaining $230 billion in surplus revenues, plus about $300 billion raised by closing inequitable corporate tax loopholes and ending unnecessary spending subsidies, I would provide meaningful tax relief that benefits Americans and fuels the economy. 
   My tax relief plan, which was filed as an amendment to this bill, provides slightly more than $500 billion in tax relief over 10 years, targeted toward lower- and middle-income Americans, family farmers and small businessmen, and families. The bill before the Senate includes provisions that are similar to some of the proposals included in my plan. 
   The bill does provide relief from the marriage penalty and gift and estate taxes, but these important provisions do not take effect for several years. I believe we should repeal, once and for all, the disgraceful tax penalty that punishes couples who want to get married. We should also slash the death tax that prevents a father or a mother from leaving the hard-earned fruits of their labor to their children. Why wait five or seven years to provide some relief from these onerous and unfair taxes? 
   The bill properly targets the lowest 15 percent tax bracket for a one-percent rate reduction and provides for a gradual increase in the upper limit of the bracket. My plan would also expand this bracket to allow as many as 17 million more Americans to pay taxes at the lowest rate. 
   The bill also increases the income threshold for tax-deferred contributions to IRAs, but 
   not until 2008, and very gradually increases the amount that employees can contribute each year to employer-sponsored retirement plans. We should make these increases effective immediately to encourage more Americans to save now for their retirement. 
   What the bill before the Senate does not do is provide much-needed incentives for saving. Restoring to every American the tax exemption for the first $200 in interest and dividend income would go a long way toward reversing the abysmal savings rate in this country.  
   Most important, we must eliminate immediately the Social Security earnings test. This tax unfairly penalizes senior citizens who choose to, or have to, work by taking away $1 of their Social Security benefits for every $3 they earn. There is no justifiable reason to force seniors with decades of knowledge and expertise out of the workforce by imposing such a punitive tax. 
   Many of the other provisions in this bill that provide tax relief for education, health care, and other issues important to American families are implemented gradually or simply delayed for several years. Likewise, some of the provisions that benefit small businesses and tax-exempt organizations do not take effect for a number of years. In fact, less than half of the 120 provisions in this bill provide any tax relief at all in the year 2000. Those tax cuts that do take effect immediately amount to just $5 billion of the nearly $800 billion total tax cuts in the bill. 
   But look at some of the provisions that do take effect immediately: 
   --A provision to extend the tax credit for electricity produced from wind and closed-loop biomass sources, and also extend the credit to electricity produced from poultry waste, which is defined to include rice hulls, wood shavings, straw, bedding, and other litter. This provision goes into effect immediately, and will cost $1.6 billion over 10 years. 
   --A provision to exempt individuals with foreign addresses from paying the 7.5 percent air passenger ticket tax on frequent flier miles, leaving American passengers to pay for our over-burdened air traffic control system. The provision goes into effect on January 1, 2000, and will cost $238 million over 10 years. 
   --A provision that exempts small seaplanes from paying ticket taxes. This provision goes into effect on December 31, 1999, and will cost $11 million over 10 years. 
   --A provision to reduce the excise tax, from 12.4 percent to 11 percent, on component parts of arrows used for hunting fish and game that measure 18 inches overall or more in length. This provision takes effect immediately. 
   How can we justify giving a $33 million tax break next year to companies producing electricity from chicken waste, when senior citizens have to forego some of their Social Security benefits if they must work to make ends meet. How can we justify writing off $15 million in revenue next year from people from other countries who fly to the U.S., when American families get absolutely no relief from the egregious marriage penalty until 2005? 
   Mr. President, as I have said, there are many good provisions in this bill which reflect the hard work and difficult decisions that Chairman ROTH and the Finance Committee faced. They have worked hard to do the best we can for the American people who need and deserve relief from excessive taxation and a burdensome tax code. 
   I intend to vote for this bill, even though I know, as do my colleagues, that the President has pledged to veto both the Senate and House tax bills. Neither bill will ever become law, and the American people will never see a nickel's cut in their taxes, if the President has his way. That is the unfortunate reality that the conferees on this measure must recognize as they work to craft a meaningful tax relief bill that can be enacted and implemented for the benefit of the American people. 
   I will vote for this bill to move the process along and send this bill to conference with the House. What will matter at the end is that we focus on crafting a bill that can become law so that the American taxpayers get the relief they deserve and need. I have put forward a plan, described briefly here, that I believe can be a starting point for meaningful and achievable tax cuts. I urge the conferees on this legislation to focus on a conference agreement that the President will sign and that will become law this year. That is what the American people want and need. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990730</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of S. 1467. This bill will extend the Federal Aviation Administration's, FAA, Airport Improvement Program, AIP, for sixty days. It is critical that Congress complete the authorization for this program for this fiscal year. Otherwise, the FAA will be prohibited from issuing much-needed grants to airports in every state, regardless of whether or not funds have been appropriated. In fact, there are still nearly $300 million in appropriated funds for the current fiscal year that cannot be spent because AIP authority expires on August 6. 
   If we do not act to reauthorize this program for at least the remainder of this fiscal year, we will cause harm to the transportation infrastructure of our country. AIP grants play a critical part in airport development. Without these grants, important safety, security, and capacity projects will be hampered throughout the country. Therefore, we must act swiftly. 
   The safety of the traveling public depends upon the continued flow of AIP monies. For example, airports use these funds to install instrument landing systems, which help guide airplanes to safe landings when visibility is impaired. AIP funds are also used for airport safety projects related to runway  approach lighting; aircraft deicing equipment; snow removal equipment; repair of damaged runways; rescue and firefighting equipment; and runway safety areas for aircraft that have trouble stopping after a landing. It is my understanding that AIP funds were used to construct an innovative ``arrestor bed'' at the end of a runway at New York's JFK Airport. A few months ago, that arrestor bed prevented a commuter plane from plunging into a bay. It was credited with saving lives on that flight. 
   This bill will also extend the Aviation Insurance Program, which is commonly known as the War Risk Insurance Program. It provides insurance for commercial aircraft that are operating in high-risk areas, such as countries at war or on the verge of war. Commercial insurers will not usually provide coverage for such operations, which are often required to further U.S. foreign policy or national security objectives. For example, commercial airlines were needed to ferry troops and equipment to the Middle East for Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. If War Risk Insurance had not been available, our troops may not have been adequately supported. 
   This extension will also give us more time to work on a more comprehensive aviation bill that is still desperately needed. We have been working hard to accommodate the concerns that many Senators have with respect to provisions in S. 82, the Air Transportation Improvement Act. I believe we can bring a bill to the floor that will require very little of the Senate's time. 
   Mr. President, I urge all of my colleagues to support swift passage of this short-term extension of the AIP. If we fail to act, the FAA will not be able to address vital security and safety needs in every State in the Nation. We must reaffirm our commitment to providing the public with a safe and efficient air transportation system. This bill will help us meet that goal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as per the agreement with the Senator from Delaware, I will ask unanimous consent that the amendment be laid aside as soon as I use my 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Not withdrawn, set aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, it was made clear by the Senator from Montana and the Senator from Delaware that I will withdraw the amendment after speaking for 5 minutes on it, with the full understanding that there will be a vote on this at the proper time, as amendments are voted on probably tomorrow night. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I have 5 minutes. I want to use the 5 minutes to talk about it. The Senator from Delaware told me the time tomorrow will be taken up, so I asked to be given 5 minutes to talk tonight. In previous years, I have ended up in the position where at 2 a.m. I can speak for 1 minute and the other person can speak for 1 minute. At least now I have 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. That is why I asked for 5 minutes, so I can tell the Senator the nature of the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today I am proposing an amendment to authorize a three-year nationwide school choice demonstration program targeted at children from economically disadvantaged families. The program would expand educational opportunities for low-income children by providing parents and students the freedom to choose the best school for their unique academic needs, while encouraging schools to be creative and responsive to the needs of all students. 
   The amendment authorizes $1.8 billion annually for fiscal years 2001 through 2003 to be used to provide school choice vouchers to economically disadvantaged children through the Nation. The funds would be divided among the States based upon the number of children they have enrolled in public schools. Then, each State would conduct a lottery among low-income children who attend the public schools with the lowest academic performance in their State. Each child selected in the lottery would receive $2,000 per year for three years to be used to pay tuition at any school of their choice in the State, including private or religious schools. The money could also be used to pay for transportation to the school or supplementary educational services to meet the unique needs of the individual student. 
   In total, the amendment authorizes $5.4 billion for the three-year school choice demonstration program, as well as a GAO evaluation of the program upon its completion. The cost of this important test of school vouchers is fully offset by eliminating more than $5.4 billion in unnecessary and inequitable corporate tax loopholes which benefit the ethanol, sugar, gas, and oil industries. 
   First, the amendment eliminates tax credits for ethanol producers, eliminating a $1.5 billion subsidy. Ethanol is an inefficient, expensive fuel that has not lived up to claims that it would reduce reliance on foreign oil or reduce impacts on the environment. It takes more energy to produce a gallon of ethanol than the amount of energy that gallon of ethanol contains. Ethanol tax credits are simply a subsidy for corn producers, and the amendment ends the taxpayers' support for this outdated program. 
   Second, the amendment eliminates three subsidies enjoyed by the oil and gas industry, totaling $3.9 billion. It phases out oil and gas industry's special right to fully deduct capital costs for drilling, exploration and development; eliminates the 15% tax credit for recovering oil using particular methods and ends special right of oil and gas property owners to claim unlimited passive losses under income and alternative minimum tax provisions. Subsidizing the cost of domestic production has not been shown to have reduced reliance on foreign oil or directly contributed to more efficient resource use or domestic productivity. The amendment ends these special tax treatments. 
   Finally, the amendment eliminates the special loan program for sugar producers and processors, 
   worth $390 million. The Federal Government is burdened with an unnecessary and unprofitable loan program for big sugar producers and enforcing mandated import quotas on foreign sugar. Sugar price supports also force consumers to pay $1.4 billion every year in artificially inflated sugar prices. The amendment simply eliminates the taxpayer-funded loan program in 2003 and immediately requires repayment of existing loans in cash, rather than sugar. 
   These tax benefits and subsidies were originally intended to serve a limited purpose during times of economic recession and hardship in the 1970s. Our economy has long since recovered and I believe that these subsidies have outlived their purpose. The sunset of these programs will end these corporate welfare programs and return any remaining benefit back to our nation's children. 
   Mr. President, we all know that one of the most important issues facing our nation is the education of our children. Providing a solid, quality education for each and every child in our Nation is a critical component in their quest for personal success and fulfillment, as well as the success of our nation: economically, intellectually, civically and morally. 
   We must strive to develop and implement initiatives which strengthen and improve our education system thereby ensuring that our children are provided with the essential academic tools for succeeding professionally, economically and personally. I am sure we all agree that increasing the academic performance and skills of all our Nation's students must be the paramount goal of any education reform we implement. 
   School vouchers are a viable method of allowing all American children access to high-quality schools, including private and religious schools. Every parent should be able to obtain the highest quality education for their children, not just the wealthy. Tuition vouchers would provide low-income children trapped in mediocre, or worse, schools the same educational choices as children of economic privilege. 
   Some of my colleagues may argue that vouchers would divert money away from our nation's public schools and instead of instilling competition into our school systems we should be pouring more and more money into poor performing public schools. I respectfully disagree. While I support strengthening financial support for education in our Nation, the solution to what ails our system is not simply pouring more and more money into it. Currently our nation spends significantly more money than most countries and yet our students scored lower than their peers from almost all of the forty countries which participated in the last Third International Mathematics and Science Study TIMMS test. Students in countries which are struggling economically, socially and politically, such as Russia, outscored U.S. children in math and scored far above them in advanced math and physics. Clearly, we must make significant changes beyond simply pouring more money into the current structure in order to improve our children's academic performance in order to remain a viable force in the world economy. 
   It is shameful that we are failing to provide many of our children with adequate training and quality academic preparation for the real world. The number of college freshmen who require remedial courses in reading, writing and mathematics when they begin their 
   higher education is unacceptably high. In fact, presently, more than 30 percent of entering freshmen need to enroll in one or more remedial course when they start college. It does not bode well for our future economy if the majority of workers are not prepared with the basic skills to engage in a competitive global marketplace. 
   I concede that school vouchers are not the magic bullet for eradicating all that is wrong with our current educational system, but they are an important opportunity for providing improved academic opportunities for all children, not just the wealthy. Examination of the limited voucher programs scattered around our country reveals high levels of parent and student satisfaction, an increase in parental involvement, and a definite improvement  in attendance and discipline at the participating schools. Vouchers encourage public and private schools, communities and parents to all work together to raise the level of education for all students. Today, we have the opportunity to replicate these important attributes throughout all our Nation's communities. 
   Thomas Jefferson said, ``The purpose of education is to create young citizens with knowing heads and loving hearts.'' If we fail to give our children the education they need to nurture their heads and hearts, then we threaten their futures and the future of our nation. Each of us is responsible for ensuring that our children have both the love in their hearts and the knowledge in their heads to not only dream, but to make their dreams a reality. 
   The time has come for us to finally conduct a national demonstration of school choice to determine the benefits or perhaps disadvantages of providing educational choices to all students, not just those who are fortunate enough to be born into a wealthy family. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and put the needs of America's school children ahead of the financial gluttony of big business. 
   I hope my colleagues will consider this. It is time we got rid of wasteful and unnecessary subsidies. It is time we had a national test voucher program to find out if vouchers, indeed, will live up to the promise that many of us believe is there as a result of giving parents a choice, the same that wealthy parents have in this country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990728</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990726</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I support the amendment offered by Senator GORTON regarding the European Union's (EU) rule affecting hushkitted and re-engined aircraft. This Sense of  the Senate amendment will make clear to the Europeans that the United States will not tolerate unfair, discriminatory restrictions on trade that go against international principles and standards. 
   For those who are not familiar with the issue, I will provide a brief background. To comply with international aircraft noise standards, the U.S. aviation industry adopted so-called hushkit technology to bring its older aircraft into compliance. Some airlines also purchased new engines for their older aircraft. Even though these hushkitted and re-engined aircraft comply with the new international noise standard, the EU took legislative action to freeze the number of these aircraft within the EU Community at the 1999 level. Although the EU delayed final implementation of this rule for one year, this move has the effect of setting a more stringent noise standard in Europe. 
   Unfortunately, implementation of this rule is likely to have a discriminatory and costly impact on the United States aviation industry without any noise reduction benefits. The fact that this rule does not have a similar effect on industries in the EU is troubling. It is my understanding that certain aspects of the rule were tailored to protect European aviation interests. But one of the worst aspects of this rule is the terrible precedent that it sets for unilateral action by countries or groups of countries outside of the established international standards-setting process. 
   Earlier this year I wrote to European officials to express my deep frustration with their having chosen this particular, unilateral course of action to address the issue of aircraft emissions. Regulations such as the one at issue should be taken through the appropriate international channels, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization. Adoption of this rule by the EU has effectively breached a 50-year regime of global environmental rules in aviation. 
   A regional rule such as this one will undermine the ability of lesser-developed nations, the aerospace industry, airlines, and the United States to work toward international standards for more stringent aircraft engine emissions, which is the purported rationale for the EU rule. I sincerely hope that the EU will come to realize the benefits of a single, rational aviation regime for all nations. 
   The delay in implementation of the rule was granted as a result of a U.S. commitment to work in partnership with the EU within the established international process to develop a new, more stringent global aircraft noise standard. Since its adoption, the Federal Aviation Administration has been working bilaterally with representatives of the European Commission to develop an agreement to work in partnership on resolving this matter to everyone's satisfaction. 
   Despite the ongoing consultations, and regardless of the delay in implementation of the rule, U.S. industry is being negatively impacted right now. Because the hushkit rule is on the books, the market assumes that the rule will eventually come into effect. This has had a profound impact upon many businesses. So it is important that this matter be resolved soon. 
   The Europeans must understand how important it is that the considerations of the United States are taken into account with respect to this matter. If progress is not made in the near future, calls for taking strong action against the EU will grow. As a committed proponent of free trade, I am adamantly opposed to the EU rule. For the same reason, I do not support inappropriate retaliation on the part of the United States in this matter. Despite my opposition, however, the U.S. may in fact retaliate, which could do harm to businesses and consumers on both sides of the Atlantic. 
   Whether retaliatory in nature or not, the U.S. has many tools at its disposal to address the matter if the EU proves to be intractable in its position. For example, the United States Trade Representative is considering preparation of a World Trade Organization case focusing on the discriminatory aspects of the rule. Northwest Airlines has filed a complaint with Department of Transportation asking for retaliatory measures. Most recently, the U.S. aviation industry has asked the government to take official action under the so-called Chicago Convention, which governs many aspects of international aviation, claiming that the EU rule is not in compliance with international standards. 
   I do not want this issue to become the subject of a trade war. But if the EU fails to grasp the determined opposition of the U.S. aviation industry to this rule, there may be serious repercussions. I hope that this Sense of the Senate will begin to get the message to the EU that this issue cannot remain unresolved for too much longer.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would be pleased to engage in a discussion with the distinguished Senators from Florida and Ohio on the substance of this matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I would agree that as the current law is written a number of our law enforcement agencies that operate public aircraft are faced with burdens in being reimbursed for the costs associated from flying missions in support of neighboring jurisdictions. The Senate Commerce Committee intends to act to review the matter and work to develop legislation that will help law enforcement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. As I have indicated to my colleague, I will as the Chairman of the Commerce Committee review this matter by the end of the year and work with my colleague from South Carolina, Senator HOLLINGS, in a good faith effort to resolve this issue by the end of the year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to thank the managers of this bill for their hard work in putting forth annual legislation which provides federal funding for numerous vital programs. The Senate will soon vote to adopt the Commerce, Justice, State Appropriations Bill for the Fiscal Year 2000. I intend to support this measure because it provides funding for fighting crime, enhancing drug enforcement, and responding to threats of terrorism. This further addresses the shortcomings of the immigration process, funds the operation of the judicial system, facilitates commerce throughout the United States, and fulfills the needs of the State Department and various other agencies. 
   For many years, I have tried to cut wasteful and unnecessary spending from the annual appropriations bills--with only limited success, I must admit. Nonetheless, I will continue my fight to curb wasteful pork-barrel spending, and I regret that I must again come forward this year to object to the millions of unrequested, low-priority, wasteful spending in this bill and its accompanying report. This year's bill has over $1 billion in pork-barrel spending. This is a disgracefully huge increase over last year's FY 99 Commerce, Justice, State Appropriations Bill, which contained $361 million in pork-barrel spending. $1.2 billion is an unacceptable amount of money to spend on low-priority, unrequested, wasteful projects. In short, Congress must curb its appetite for such unbridled spending. 
   CBO projects that we will have close to a trillion dollar budget surplus over the next 10 years. However, if we continue with our current levels of wasteful spending, these budget surpluses may not occur. Pork-barrel spending today not only robs well-deserving programs of much needed funds, it also jeopardizes social security reform, potential tax cuts, and our fiscal well-being into the next century. 
   The multitude of unrequested earmarks buried in this proposal will undoubtedly further burden the American taxpayers. While the amounts associated with each individual earmark may not seem extravagant, taken together, they represent a serious diversion of taxpayers' hard-earned dollars to low priority programs at the expense of numerous programs that have undergone the appropriate merit-based selection process. Congress and the American public must be made aware of the magnitude of wasteful spending endorsed by this body. 
   I have compiled a lengthy list of the numerous add-ons, earmarks, and special exemptions provided to individual projects in this bill. It would take a substantial amount of time to recite this list to you. Instead, I will ask unanimous consent to include this list in the RECORD. 
   Mr. President, because of our nation's robust economy, we now have a balanced budget. But we cannot continue to bear the financial burden of servicing a $5.6 trillion national debt. We need to continue to work to cut unnecessary and wasteful spending so we can begin to pay down our debt and save billions in interest payments. 
   As I mentioned earlier, CBO recently projected that we will have close to a trillion dollar budget surplus over the next 10 years. These are projections and not real dollars until they materialize. Further, these surplus projections are all contingent on Congress maintaining the spending caps. Unfortunately, I already hear the grumbling to break these caps even as we have only deliberated on a small number of appropriations bills. 
   Simply because we can fund programs of questionable merit within the spending caps does not mean that we should. There is no room for pork-barreling when we are so close to breaking the caps. Last year alone, I uncovered  over $14 billion of wasteful spending in the appropriations bills. $14 billion funds a lot of worthy programs. 
   As a matter of simple fairness, we have an obligation to ensure that Congress spends taxpayers' hard-earned dollars prudently to protect our balanced budget and to protect the projected budget surpluses. The American public cannot understand why we continue to earmark these huge amounts of money to locality specific special interests at a time when we are trying to cut the cost of government and return more dollars to the people. Pork barrel spending cannot be justified in an environment where our highest fiscal priorities should be to save Social Security, and provide much needed tax relief such as: increasing the number of tax payers in the 15% tax bracket, elimination of the marriage penalty; reduced taxation of savings and investment income; repeal of the estate and gift tax; repeal of the Social Security Earnings Test; increasing the contribution level for 410(k), and 457 retirement plans; and increasing the contribution level for the traditional IRA to $5,000. 
   Let me say very frankly that I do not generally like the idea of griping year after year regarding Congress' appetite for wasteful pork-barrel spending. But it is a sad commentary on the state of politics today that the Congress cannot curb its appetite to earmark funds for programs that are obviously wasteful, unnecessary, or unfair. Unfortunately, however, Members of Congress have demonstrated time and again their willingness to fund programs that serve their narrowly tailored interest at the expense of the national interest. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990722</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill to designate the month of May National Military Appreciation Month. As my colleagues may recall, I had sponsored a resolution earlier in the year, cosponsored by 61 Senators, designating May 1999 as National Military Appreciation Month. That resolution, S. Res. 33, passed by a vote of 93-0 on April 30. The new bill will make that designation permanent. 
   The introduction of an All-Volunteer Army was an outgrowth of the disenchantment many Americans felt in the wake of the Vietnam War. The end of conscription and the transition to the All-Volunteer concept has been criticized by some for not adequately reflecting socioeconomic divisions within our country. In point of fact, however, with the requisite attention and care, it produced the finest armed forces in history. How far we had come since the tumultuous times of the 1970s when military readiness descended to abysmal levels was evident for all the world to see in the overwhelming victory over Iraqi forces during Operation Desert Storm. But that success has been taken for granted too long. Over 15 years of declining military budgets, combined with record high levels of deployments, have stretched the military to precarious levels. 
   The end of conscription had another, more far-reaching and subtle implication: it diminished the percentage of the public, including its elected officials, with military experience. This is not a criticism of those who did not serve; on the contrary, as a strong supporter of the All-Volunteer Army, I remain committed to its survival and success. This gradual diminishment in the shared experience of having served in uniform, however, makes it increasingly important that the public reflect every year on the enormous role their armed forces have on preserving freedom. 
   As thousands of American soldiers move into position in Kosovo, while others continue to serve in Bosnia as well as on the demilitarized zone in Korea and around the world, it is imperative that our men and women in uniform know of the strong continuing support of their country for their dedication and service to this country. Whether we individually agree with each and every deployment or not, we have learned to separate our support every deployment or not, we have learned to separate our support for the armed forces from our differences over the policies that sent them into harm's way. Dedicating one month every year to express our appreciation for the armed forces, the same month in which we recognize Victory in Europe Day, Military Spouse Day, Armed Forces Day, and, most importantly, Memorial Day, is an appropriate measure that I hope will have the support of all my colleagues in Congress. 
   Mr. President, I generally take a somewhat dim view of celebratory resolutions. But those who fought on the battlefields of Lexington, Gettysburg, Normandy, in the Ardennes and on  Okinawa, in Hue and at Khe Sanh, in the deserts of the Persian Gulf and the dusty streets of Mogadish, in the skies over Kosovo and who stand a lonely vigil on the DMZ, must not be forgotten. Too much blood has been spilled in defense of liberty. We owe to those who perished and those who survived, to devote one month out of the year to reflect on the sacrifices of those who have worn their nation's uniform throughout its history. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to inform my colleagues of a significant honor recently bestowed upon our colleague, the Senator from Michigan, Mr. ABRAHAM. 
   On June 16, Senator ABRAHAM became the first United States Senator to receive the ``Cyber Champion'' award, from the Business Software Alliance. He was recognized for his legislative accomplishments in support of America's high-technology economy. I would like to congratulate Senator ABRAHAM on receiving this well-deserved honor. 
   Senator ABRAHAM has been a champion of high-tech since coming to the Senate. He has worked hard on a high-tech agenda to keep Americans employed in good jobs at good wages, and to help our nation keep the edge we need in the global marketplace. It has been my pleasure to work with him on many of these issues. 
   Whether fighting to expand and rationalize the use of electronic signatures, expanding high-tech visas, increasing charitable giving to our schools so that we can train our kids in the uses of high-technology, keeping the Internet free from unnecessary interference and taxation, or seeing to it that we are prepared for the year 2000, Senator ABRAHAM has been a leader on high-tech issues. 
   Now Senator ABRAHAM is working to protect property rights on the Internet through his anti-cybersquatting legislation. His bill would empower trademark owners to protect their marks, at the same time protecting consumers from potential fraud. 
   There is no doubt in my mind that Senator ABRAHAM's efforts will help workers and the economy in Michigan and across the United States. Once again, I congratulate him on this honor, and on the accomplishments that have earned it for him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I oppose Senator SMITH's motion to discharge from the Senate Finance Committee his resolution disapproving of the extension of the Jackson-Vanik waiver for Vietnam. I do so because I believe the House should properly act first on a measure of this nature, because the Committee should be afforded the opportunity to render judgment on Senator SMITH's resolution before it is taken up by the full Senate, and because Vietnam's Jackson-Vanik waiver, like China's Normal Trade Relation status, is too important to fall victim to the political currents buffeting the Senate at this time. 
   Procedurally, the Senate has traditionally reserved consideration of Jackson-Vanik waivers and the granting of Normal Trade Relation status until after the House has acted. As my colleagues know, the House Ways and Means Committee has unfavorably reported the House resolutions of disapproval for both Vietnam's Jackson-Vanik waiver and China's Normal Trade Relation status. These measures are scheduled for floor action in the House. The Senate should not rush to judgment on either of these measures until the House has voted on them. Indeed, the Senate has over 40 remaining days under the statutory deadline for action on the waiver. 
   Substantively, the Jackson-Vanik amendment exists to promote freedom of emigration from non-democratic countries. The law calls for a waiver if it would enhance opportunities to emigrate freely. Opportunities for emigration from Vietnam have clearly increased since the President first waived the Jackson-Vanik amendment in 1998. The waiver has encouraged measurable Vietnamese cooperation in processing applications for emigration under the Orderly Departure Program (ODP) and the Resettlement Opportunity for Vietnamese Returnees agreement (ROVR). 
   The Jackson-Vanik waiver has also allowed the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the Export-Import Bank (EXIM), and the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to support American businesses in Vietnam. Withdrawing OPIC, EXIM, and USDA guarantees would hurt U.S. businesses and slow progress on economic normalization. It would reinforce the position of hard-liners in Hanoi who believe Vietnam's opening to the West has proceeded too rapidly. 
   Let me assure my colleagues that I harbor no illusions about the human rights situation in Vietnam. There is clearly room for improvement. The question is how best to advance both the cause of human rights and U.S. economic and security interests. The answer lies in the continued expansion of U.S. relations with Vietnam. 
   Although the Jackson-Vanik waiver does not relate to our POW/MIA accounting efforts, Vietnam-related legislation often serves as a referendum on broader U.S.-Vietnam relations, in which accounting for our missing personnel is the United States' first priority. Thirty-three Joint Field Activities conducted by the Department of Defense over the past six years, and the consequent repatriation of 266 sets of remains of American military personnel during that period, attest to the ongoing cooperation between Vietnamese and American officials in our efforts to account for our missing service men. I am confident that such progress will continue. 
   Just as the naysayers who insisted that Vietnamese cooperation on POW/MIA issues would cease altogether when we normalized relations with Vietnam were proven wrong, so have those who insisted that Vietnam would cease cooperation on emigration issues once we waived Jackson-Vanik been proven wrong by the course of events since the original waiver was issued in March 1998. 
   The Jackson-Vanik amendment was designed to link U.S. trade to the emigration policies of communist countries, primarily the Soviet Union. The end of the Cold War fundamentally restructured global economic and security arrangements. As the recent expansion of NATO demonstrated, old enemies have become new friends. Moreover, meaningful economic and political reform can only occur in Vietnam if the United States remains engaged there. 
   Last year, I initiated a Dear Colleague letter to members of the House of Representatives signed by every Vietnam veteran in the Senate but Senator SMITH, who has opposed every step in the gradual process of normalizing our relations with Vietnam over the years. There are those in Congress, including Senator SMITH, who remain opposed to the extension of Vietnam's Jackson-Vanik waiver. But they do not include any other United States Senator who served in Vietnam and who, as a consequence, might be understandably skeptical of closer U.S.-Vietnam relations. 
   That body of opinion reminds us that, whatever one may think of the character of the Vietnamese regime, such considerations should not obscure our clear humanitarian interest in promoting freedom of emigration from Vietnam. The Jackson-Vanik waiver serves that interest. Consequently, I urge my colleagues to oppose Senator SMITH's extraordinary motion to discharge consideration of his resolution from the Finance Committee. 
   Mr. MOYNIHAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Montana for yielding me time. 
   Mr. President, just a few facts. We process 96 percent of the ROVR applications. Last year we processed only 78 percent. The Jackson-Vanik waiver is working. Almost 16,000 applicants have been granted admission to the United States. Today there are only 79 outstanding ROVR cases. Last year there were 1,353 outstanding cases. 
   Mr. President, I oppose this motion to discharge from the Senate Finance Committee. It disapproves the extension of the Jackson-Vanik waiver for Vietnam. I do so because I believe the House should properly act first on a measure of this nature, because the committee should be afforded the opportunity to render judgment on Senator SMITH's resolution before it is taken up by the full Senate, and because Vietnam's Jackson-Vanik waiver, like China's normal trade relation status, is too important to fall victim to the political currents buffeting the Senate at this time. 
   As we all know, procedurally, the Senate has traditionally reserved consideration of Jackson-Vanik waivers and the granting of normal trade relation status until after the House has acted. As my colleagues know, the House Ways and Means Committee has unfavorably reported the House resolutions of disapproval for both Vietnam's Jackson-Vanik waiver and China's normal trade relation status. These measures are scheduled for floor action in the House. The Senate should not rush to judgment on either of these measures until the House has voted on them. Indeed, the Senate has over 40 remaining days under the statutory deadline for action on the waiver. 
   Substantively, the Jackson-Vanik amendment exists to promote freedom of emigration from non-democratic countries. The law calls for a waiver if it would enhance opportunities to emigrate freely. Opportunities for emigration from Vietnam have clearly increased since the President first waived the Jackson-Vanik amendment in 1998. The waiver has encouraged measurable Vietnamese cooperation in processing applications for emigration under the Orderly Departure Program and the Resettlement Opportunity for Vietnamese Returnees agreement, ROVR. 
   The Jackson-Vanik waiver has also allowed the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the Export-Import Bank, and the Department of Agriculture to support American businesses in Vietnam. Withdrawing OPIC, EXIM, and USDA guarantees would hurt U.S. businesses and slow progress on economic normalization. It would reinforce the position of hard-liners in Hanoi who believe Vietnam's opening to the West has proceeded too rapidly. 
   Let me assure my colleagues that I harbor no illusions about the human rights situation in Vietnam. There is clearly room for improvement. The question is how best to advance both the cause of human rights and U.S. economic and security interests. The answer lies in the continued expansion of U.S. relations with Vietnam. 
   Although the Jackson-Vanik waiver does not relate to our POW/MIA accounting efforts, Vietnam-related legislation often serves as a referendum on broader U.S.-Vietnam relations, in which accounting for our missing personnel is the United States' first priority. Thirty-three Joint Field Activities conducted by the Department of Defense over the past 6 years, and the consequent repatriation of 266 sets of remains of American military personnel during that period, attest to the ongoing cooperation between Vietnamese and American officials in our efforts to account for our missing servicemen. I am confident that such progress will continue. 
   It really does not serve much of a purpose for us to have divided opinion on the degree of Vietnam cooperation. We should rely on the opinion of the U.S. military who are there on the ground in Vietnam doing the job. Invariably, they will attest to the cooperation, despite perhaps the hopes of others. They will attest that the fact is the Vietnamese are providing full cooperation as far as resolution of the Vietnamese POW/MIA issues. Again, do not take my word for it; take the word of the American military who are on the ground doing the job. 
   Just as the naysayers who insisted that Vietnamese cooperation on POW/MIA issues would cease altogether when we normalized relations with Vietnam were proven wrong, so have those who insisted that Vietnam would cease cooperation on emigration issues once we waived Jackson-Vanik been proven wrong by the course of events since the original waiver was issued in March 1998. 
   The Jackson-Vanik amendment was designed to link U.S. trade to the emigration policies of communist countries, primarily the Soviet Union. The end of the Cold War fundamentally restructured global economic and security arrangements. As the recent expansion of NATO demonstrated, old enemies have become new friends. Moreover, meaningful economic and political reform can only occur in Vietnam if the United States remains engaged there. 
   Last year, I initiated a Dear Colleague letter to Members of the House of Representatives, signed by every Vietnam veteran in the Senate, except Senator SMITH, who has opposed every step in the gradual process of normalizing--I ask for 1 additional minute. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Dear Colleague letter to Members of the House of Representatives was signed by every Vietnam veteran in the Senate except Senator SMITH, who has opposed every step in the gradual process of normalizing our relations with Vietnam over the years. 
   There are those in Congress, including Senator SMITH, who remain opposed to the extension of Vietnam's Jackson-Vanik waiver. But they do not include any other U.S. Senator who  served in Vietnam and who, as a consequence, might be understandably skeptical of closer U.S.-Vietnam relations. 
   That body of opinion reminds us that, whatever one may think of the character of the Vietnamese regime, such considerations should not obscure our clear humanitarian interest in promoting freedom of emigration from Vietnam. The Jackson-Vanik waiver serves that interest. Consequently, I urge my colleagues to oppose Senator SMITH's extraordinary motion to discharge consideration of his resolution from the Finance Committee. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I yield to the Senator from Kentucky. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I ask, does this mean that the majority leader will not fill up the tree with first- and second-degree amendments? In other words, the intent is to move forward with the amending process, up-or-down votes on the amendments and move forward? That is the intent of the majority leader? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the majority leader. 
   This is a time now where we will be able to have a legitimate amending process. Amendments to perfect the legislation will be placed on the calendar by the close of business on September 14 so that we can improve or not improve. However, the legislative process will move forward, as we normally do on pieces of legislation before the body, with the exception, of course, that respecting the fact that the Senate does act with 60 votes to cut off debate, if Senator FEINGOLD and I fail to get 60 votes, then there is no sense in prolonging the debate or the discussion, 
   including that we would not raise the issue again during the 106th Congress. We would have debates and amendments and votes on those amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If the majority leader will agree, for the remainder of the first session, we would not bring it up. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object, I deeply regret this, but Senator LEVIN is on the floor right now. I hope we can come to an agreement on whether or not he would object to that unanimous consent agreement. I would like to finish it. I will yield to him at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I object at this time, until we get this. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I object. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Reserving the right to object, and I will not object, 
   I want to make it clear to the majority leader, in anticipation or not anticipation of the Senator from Michigan agreeing to the unanimous consent request, that it is the majority leader's intention to follow through with the unanimous consent request as is now presently in the Record no later than October 12 to move forward with the amending process as agreed to by the Senator from Kentucky and all of us until the Senator from Michigan objected; is that correct, I ask my friend from Mississippi? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Again, I want to reaffirm that it is the intention of the majority leader to comply with the unanimous consent request which was agreed to on both sides, with the exception of the Senator from Michigan, that no later than October 12, we will move forward with the legislation as articulated in the unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Absolutely. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990716</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, yesterday, I introduced the Adoption Awareness Act of 1999. The objective of this legislation is to provide proactive support for adoption as an option for women with unplanned pregnancies, and for couples who are unable to conceive a child due to problems with infertility. The bill would require certain federally-funded health centers to provide adoption counseling by trained adoption counselors. 
   The Adoption Awareness Act makes grants available to national adoption organizations to provide staff training in adoption counseling to eligible health centers. These health centers include Title X funded clinics, community health centers, migrant health centers, centers for the homeless, school-based clinics, and crisis pregnancy centers. The objective is to ensure that woman and their families are provided professional, compassionate, and understanding counseling about adoption. 
   This legislation also provides that faith-based charities may receive grants to provide adoption counseling training services on the same basis as any other nongovernmental provider without impairing the religious character of such institutions and without diminishing the religious freedom of those receiving services. 
   Finally, this legislation authorizes the appropriation of $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2000 for purposes of providing adoption counseling training. 
   There are no unwanted babies in this country. Across America there are countless couples who cannot conceive a baby, and struggle, often hopelessly, to adopt a child. All the while, tragically, 1.5 million children are aborted every year. There are parents who desperately want the opportunity to provide these children with a loving home, and the gift of life itself. 
   The purpose of this legislation is not to incite a debate about abortion. The purpose of this legislation is to stress the value, indeed the sanctity of life, and the importance of adoption as an alternative to abortion. The purpose of this legislation is to ensure that a woman struggling with the tragic choice of abortion is provided professional and compassionate counseling on adoption. A mother deserves to know that there are millions of couples out there who are willing, indeed desperate, to provide her child with a loving home. A mother deserves to know that ending her child's life is not the only choice she has. 
   I speak from personal experience. I am an adoptive father. I am a staunch supporter of the choice of adoption. Every mother pondering the agony which is abortion deserves the hope this legislation offers. Every unborn child deserves the opportunity for life that this legislation offers. 
   I believe in the sanctity of human life. I have always fought for the rights of the unborn child, and the preservation of the intrinsic value of all human life. At approximately 1.5 million abortions every year, that is some 35 million children killed since the Roe v. Wade decision. Mr. President, regardless of your beliefs, pro-abortion, or pro-life, that is a staggering and tragic statistic. This legislation offers a chance at reducing that number. It is not the answer, but it does provide hope to couples struggling desperately to adopt children. As important, it provides hope to that mother or couple who is standing on the tragic precipice of abortion, ensuring that they know there is another choice. 
   Every child embodies the hope for our future. It is our children, in their purity and their innocence, that hope is born again in an increasingly cynical world. Abortion is the great tragedy of our time. America is not a country of kings. America is not defined by any single geographic characteristic, by any single race or creed. America is an idea, a collection of high ideals, eloquently articulated, inscribed in our Constitution, and embodied on our institutions. 
   Abraham Lincoln, in pondering the profound wisdom and our founding fathers, wrote of them: ``This was their majestic interpretation of the economy of the universe. This was their lofty, and wise, and noble understanding of the justice of the Creator to his creatures ..... In their enlightened belief, nothing stamped with the divine image and likeness was sent into the world to be trodden on ..... They grasped not only the whole race of man then living, but they reached forward and seized upon the farthest posterity. They erected a beacon to guide their children, and their children, and the countless myriads who would inhabit the Earth in other ages.'' 
   Mr. President, confronting the tragic figures on abortion I have previously cited, I cannot help but question whether we can continue on this course and maintain hope that the intrinsic value of every human life, that principle out of which all the rights of man flow, can survive. The Adoption Awareness Act represents one step in the effort toward restoring the sanctity of life as the foundation of our system of human rights. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, over the past four days, we have cast many difficult votes. Often, as you know, several issues are addressed in a single amendment or series of votes. Therefore, in order to ensure that my positions on these matters are fully understood by my constituents, I ask unanimous consent that an explanation of my votes on health care amendments be printed in the Record. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, our personal health and the health of our loved ones is the most valuable thing we possess. Unfortunately, we often take good health for granted until tragedy strikes and the health or well-being of a family member is jeopardized by disease, accident, or the ills often associated with aging. This is when we fully appreciate the value of good health, as well as the importance of access to quality health care. 
   When one of us or a loved one becomes ill, the obstacles of daily life become insignificant in comparison to ensuring the best health care services are available to ensure a full and speedy recovery. Our priority instantly becomes seeking and receiving the best possible care from qualified medical professionals. 
   Unfortunately, too many Americans feel powerless when faced with a health care crisis in their personal life. Many feel as if important, life-altering decisions are being micro-managed by business people rather than medical professionals, and too many Americans believe they have no access to quality care or cannot receive the necessary medical treatment recommended by their personal physician. 
   Many Americans work hard and live on strict budgets so they can afford health insurance coverage for their family. Then, the moment they need health care, they are confronted with obstacles limiting which services are available to them: confronted by frustrating bureaucratic hoops; and confronted by health plans that provide little, if any, opportunity for patients to redress grievances. This happens too often and can be attributed to several factors. 
   Our health care system is very complicated. It is comprised of thousands of acronyms and codes, and even has acronyms for acronyms. Our overly complex health insurance system intimidates and confuses many Americans. Many of us fail to fully examine the coverage provided by our health plans until we become ill, and then it is difficult to understand the legalese of the plan documents. Another contributing factor is the depersonalization of health care, which has become focused more on profits than on proper patient care. 
   I am not embarrassed to admit that I find the complexity of the health system very disconcerting and am often overwhelmed by its intricacies. I can certainly relate to the majority of Americans who are overwhelmed by a system which does not meet their basic needs in a simple, efficient and affordable manner. 
   Let me stress that I am not here today to bash managed care. I am not here to condemn Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) and the services they provide millions of Americans. I applaud the success of managed care in reining in skyrocketing health care costs, eradicating excessive and costly health care expenditures, and significantly reducing unnecessary overuse of the system. Managed care has played a direct role in reducing health care costs so that health care coverage is affordable for millions of hard-working American families. 
   However, while I appreciate the important contributions of managed care, we must protect the rights of patients in our Nation's health care system. Too many Americans feel trapped in a system which does not put their health care needs first. They believe that HMOs value a paper dollar more than they do a human life. 
   I know that my colleagues share my view, as do most managed care companies, that we cannot continue to ignore the rights of patients. For far too long, we have allowed the health care reform debate to be determined by special interest groups. Democrats are perceived as advocating certain principles and priorities for the trial lawyers, who are drooling over the prospect of unlimited and excessively costly litigation against insurers. Meanwhile, Republicans are perceived as working to protect the profit margin of the insurance companies and big business. As a result, this critical debate is overwhelmed with partisan bickering, and millions of Americans are left with no representation and inadequate health care. 
   It is time for all of us to put aside partisanship and the influence of special interests to work together for what is needed and wanted by our constituents--safe, quality, affordable health care. 
   I believe several fundamental health care principles must guide our health care debate: 
   First, we must put Americans in charge of their own health care. There are too many people who feel overpowered and overwhelmed by the current medical system. The current structure has created a caste system, and many patients believe they have become the serfs. Patients and their doctors should control their health care decisions, not HMO bureaucrats or political bureaucrats in Washington. Physicians utilizing the best medical data must make the medical decisions, not insurance companies or trial lawyers. We need to put in place a balanced system that allows managed care companies to reduce costs but also reinvigorates the patient-doctor relationship which is essential for receiving optimal care. 
   On the other hand, patients need to recognize that they cannot rely solely on doctors to always provide the best medical options. We each have a responsibility to learn how our medical plan operates, read about the options available to us and our family before we become sick, and most importantly, become better consumers of health care. I don't think many people would enter a salesroom or bank unprepared with the pertinent information for purchasing a new car or home, but too many of us blindly enter into major decisions affecting our health without doing any research. I know this is not easy, particularly with our very complex health care system and when so many of us barely find the time for sleep between work and family responsibilities. But we must become better advocates for ourselves in this complex medical system. 
   To that end, the government should help Americans become educated consumers by ensuring pertinent health care information is readily accessible. I have advocated and will continue to advocate a central web site or other service which simplifies research for Americans as they gather data on available health care options.  
   Second, we must improve access to affordable health care. It is simply disgraceful that 43 million Americans can not afford health care coverage. This is the largest number of uninsured citizens in over a decade, despite our strong economy and past actions to provide greater access to medical care. We must continue building upon already enacted reforms by expanding medical savings accounts, offering flexible savings accounts, providing full tax deductibility for self-employed health insurance costs, and allowing tax deductibility for long-term care expenses. 
   We must stop wasting our limited resources on pork and wasteful spending projects, so that we have more money to assist Americans who are uninsured and can not afford to put money away in medical savings accounts or will not be able to benefit from a tax credit. We should provide more funding for our nation's community health centers which are a tremendous resource in helping millions of Americans gain access to health care who would otherwise go without. Community health centers have instituted a sliding fee schedule which allows people to contribute what they can afford and still receive health benefits. We should strengthen and expand these successful centers throughout our country. 
   In addition, our tax code impedes a competitive market by prohibiting many Americans from truly being health care consumers. Many people lack purchasing power and are dependent on their employers for health care coverage. Tax benefits should not be limited for health care purchased only by big businesses. We should develop a method for providing the same tax benefits to individuals and families. 
   Third, Americans must have a choice of doctors to meet their health care needs. Today, too many women cannot go directly to an obstetrician or gynecologist for medical care. Instead, they are forced to waste valuable time seeking a perfunctory referral from a ``gatekeeper'' doctor before they can go directly to their OB/GYN. The same is true for children. Mothers and fathers should be allowed to take their children directly to a pediatrician. Instead, the current system forces them to go through a gatekeeper for referral. Women and children must be given the opportunity to seek care directly from the trained professionals best suited to address their unique health needs. 
   Additionally, Americans should be free to choose their doctors, including specialists, if they are willing to bear the additional costs which may accompany this freedom. People should be able to enroll in a point-of-service plan with access to a multitude of physicians, rather than be limited to an HMO which restricts freedom of choice in doctors. 
   Fourth, we must guarantee access to emergency care. If a man or woman in Phoenix, Arizona fears they are having a heart attack, they should not be required to seek approval from their managed care company prior to calling an ambulance and going to an emergency room. Any bill we pass must guarantee care in an emergency room without prior approval from an HMO if the person believes that it is an emergency situation. 
   Fifth, we must ensure continuity of care. Individuals who are pregnant, terminally ill, or institutionalized should be given special consideration so that their necessary care is not interrupted abruptly if their employer changes health plans. 
   Sixth, doctors must be able to communicate openly and fully with their patients. Today, some doctors are prevented by HMOs from openly discussing all medical treatments available to a patient. This is unconscionable. HMOs must not be allowed to stop doctors from openly discussing all possible care available, even if the procedures are not covered by the HMO. A doctor's loyalty must be to the patient and not an HMO's bottom line. 
   Seventh, a free and fair grievance process must be available in the event an HMO denies medical care. A mother should have options when she is told her son or daughter's cancer treatment is not necessary and will not be covered by her insurance. We can not support a system that leaves that mother powerless against corporate health care. She must have access to both internal and external appeals processes which are fair and readily available and which use neutral experts who are not selected, paid, or otherwise beholden to the HMO. In life-threatening cases, there must be an expedited process. 
   Finally, once all options to receive necessary medical care have been exhausted, including an external appeals process, and that care has not been appropriately provided, every American should have the right to seek reasonable relief in the courts. I find it incredible that HMOs and their employees are able to avoid responsibility for negligent or harmful medical care. Americans covered by ERISA health plans should have the same right of redress in the courts as those who are enrolled in non-ERISA plans if they are unable to receive a fair resolution through an unbiased appeals process. We must ensure that patients receive the benefits for which they have paid and rightfully deserve. We must also ensure that unscrupulous health plans not go unpunished when they act negligently, resulting in harm to a patient. 
   I drafted a compromise on this issue which would be fair to patients and HMOs and would not cause excessive and costly lawsuits. The proposal, which is filed as amendment number 1246, would require patients to go through both the internal and external appeal processes if they were unsatisfied with care or decisions of their HMO. Once the appeal process reached a decision, they could accept the decision, or if they felt they still had not been treated fairly, they could go to the courts. In court, they could receive compensatory damages with a cap of $250,000 on non-economic damages. 
   I believe this is a fair and reasonable compromise which would allow patients to be compensated, but eliminates the potential for extravagant awards that could drive up the cost of health care. Unfortunately, I was precluded from calling up this amendment and another amendment which would have protected the rights of children born with birth defects (amendment number 1247) because of the stringent controls established by the Leadership for debate on this bill. 
   It is unfortunate that this health care reform debate has been controlled by special interest groups on both sides and mired in partisan political maneuvering. This has become a debate--not about providing affordable access to quality health care for all Americans--but a debate about preserving the positions of competing special interests. It has become a debate about the interests of trial lawyers versus the interests of insurance companies--not the interests of patients. No reasonable compromise has been offered on either side to resolve issues like liability, choice, access, and cost. Instead, we are voting on competing proposals at the extremes. 
   This is not a debate. It is a contest--a contest between parties and special interests. And it is a contest that no one--not Republicans, not Democrats, certainly not the American people--wins, except, of course, the special interests who are only concerned about their financial well-being, rather than the physical or financial well-being of every American. It is a shame that this body is so controlled by special interests that we cannot even put the health of the American people ahead of politics. 
   I cosponsored the original Republican Patients' Bill of Rights, S. 326. And despite the concerted efforts of the trial lawyers and the insurance companies and those more interested in partisan politics than the health of the American people, we have succeeded in adopting some much-needed improvements to the original bill. For example, the external appeal process has been made more independent of the influence of the insurance companies; a small step has been taken toward requiring HMOs to pay for an individual's participation in a clinical trial; it requires expanded access to specialists and emergency medical care; and it mandates extended hospital care following mastectomies and related surgeries. These improvements are a step in the right direction--toward putting the needs of patients first. 
   Because of these changes, I am reluctantly supporting final passage of this legislation. I am doing this because I believe it is important to move forward and enact legislation to implement  much-needed health care reform. The House will soon take up health care reform, and I hope they will pass a reasonable health care reform bill which honestly puts the needs of patients first. We can then work for a practical and fair compromise during conference. 
   I want to put my colleagues on notice that, if a conference agreement comes back to the Senate that does not meet the standard of putting patients first, then I will have to oppose that legislation. This is too important an issue to allow the influence of special interests to prevent us from doing what is right for all Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, this evening I cast several difficult votes regarding core principles facing this body as we work to ensure the health care rights of Americans are protected. 
   I voted for an amendment creating an external appeals process for patients who are denied medical care by their health plan. While I strongly support this initiative, I am concerned that this specific proposal needs further strengthening ensuring that the individual health care rights of Americans are the priority. I will be working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to strengthen the external appeals process, including access to reasonable legal remedies while ensuring that the external review process is conducted by unbiased and independent entities whose sole purpose is to protect the rights of American patients. 
   In addition, I support guaranteeing an individual medical care in an emergency room without prior approval from their HMO if the person believes that it is an emergency situation. However, I was forced to vote against an  amendment which provided this protection but then superseded state rights and created an opportunity for emergency rooms to begin providing a litany of treatments outside of the realm of the perceived emergency which could have negative financial repercussions. 
   Finally, I support providing American women with direct access to OB/GYNs and ensuring they receive quality health care while battling breast cancer. However, I was forced to vote against an amendment providing this critical access because it eliminated an important provision ensuring that health care costs do not skyrocket thereby causing thousands, if not millions of new Americans to lose their health care coverage. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to lay aside the pending business and turn to the conference report to accompany H.R. 775. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I don't intend to use all of my time. I intend to yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Washington. I have talked to other Members who have time under this agreement. For the benefit of my colleagues, I think we will not use all of the time as outlined in the unanimous-consent agreement. 
   I am pleased to urge the final passage of the conference report on H.R. 775. This has been a long and arduous process. While there have been times when the bill appeared to be moving slowly, or even dying, I was always confident we would do the right thing and pass this final bill. 
   We are now ready to enact this critical legislation. For the benefit of my colleagues, the House has just passed the conference report by a vote of 404-24. This is a victory for the Nation and for the continued prosperity of our economy as we enter the new millennium. 
   This is a critical piece of legislation. It allows all of our businesses and industries, large and small, hitech and non-hitech, to concentrate their efforts for the next 6 months on preventing Y2K problems from happening, and planning remediation measures. Rather than spending time, resources and money planning litigation defenses, we can be focusing on the means for fixing the problems. 
   This legislation strikes a very fair and practical balance in protecting the economy and protecting the rights of consumers. And very importantly, I want to note, it addresses needs and problems of small businesses, as well as large. 
   I would like to dispel any misconceptions or misinformation that there was any underhandedness in the final negotiation and drafting of revisions to this bill. Despite attempts to address Administration concerns last week with revisions and compromises that were made Friday, over the weekend, and on Monday, final negotiations and proposals by the White House were made on Tuesday morning, as we pressed against the deadline for completion of the conference report. Final revisions and drafting were made with every effort and good faith intention to respond to the generalized requests of the White House. Challenges to the integrity, professionalism and honor of the conferees and staff are unwarranted. This is a fair bill that reflects a bipartisan compromise. 
   Perhaps the recent vote just a few minutes ago in the House might indicate that is an overwhelming view in the other body. I am sure the vote in the Senate will also indicate overwhelming support for this legislation. 
   During the conference, the Senate and the House proponents of the legislation agreed to at least 10 substantive changes to the bill. These significant compromises were in addition to 10 or more major concessions made in the Senate from the time it was passed by the committee until its passage on the floor. These revisions and compromises have resulted in a more narrowly tailored piece of legislation but one that will still accomplish everything we set out to accomplish when the bill was introduced in January. 
   We know the provisions of the bill: 
   The 30-day notice and 60-day remediation period allows prompt resolution of problems without time-consuming and expensive litigation 
   It provides that defendants are responsible for the share of harm they cause, with some exceptions to ensure that consumers are made whole. 
   It requires plaintiffs to mitigate damages. 
   It penalizes defendants who intentionally defraud or injure plaintiffs; or who are bad actors. 
   It provides liability protection for those not directly involved in a Y2K failure. 
   It assures that someone will not lose his house if a mortgage payment cannot be made or processed because of a Y2K failure. 
   It sunsets in three years. 
   It does not deny the right of anyone to redress legitimate grievances.  
   This legislation will encourage an atmosphere of cooperation in solving problems, rather than rushing to the courthouse. Emphasizing the need to talk out and resolve differences rather than litigating them will be helpful not only in the Y2K situation, but I hope will move us away from the litigious nature of our country today. 
   I am especially pleased at the level of bipartisan and bicameral cooperation in bringing this legislation to fruition. This legislation demonstrated the true ability of both parties and both bodies of Congress to work together for the good of the country. The efforts on both sides of the aisle and both sides of the Capitol to achieve consensus have been tireless. This conference has truly been a civics class example of how Congress can rise above special interest demands to do the right thing in the public interest 
   Mr. President, there are many who have contributed to this effort, particularly during the conference with the House. I want to especially mention the steadfast support and efforts of both Senator DODD and WYDEN. They worked late into the night this week to negotiate with the White House and assure the President's support. 
   I thank my two colleagues, Senator DODD and Senator WYDEN. This bill passed the Commerce Committee 11-9 on a strict partisan vote. Thanks to the efforts of those two individuals, who have been tireless, we were able to not only work with the other side of the Capitol, but the White House. Senator WYDEN and Senator DODD have better relations with the White House than I do. That is no secret to anyone around here. The fact that they were able to work more closely with the White House than I ever could have was a significant and, frankly, critical part of this agreement that we made. I again extend my deep appreciation to them. 
   It did not win them the ``Miss Congeniality'' award in their own caucus--something I am familiar with on this side of the aisle. 
   My appreciation, as well as a certain amount of sympathy, goes out to them. In all seriousness, without their efforts we would not be here. 
   I also think they would join me in expressing appreciation to Congressman GOODLATTE and Congressman DAVIS on the other side. Congressman GOODLATTE and Congressman DAVIS started with a piece of legislation far more ``restrictive''--if that is the right word--in the opinion of some, a lot better. 
   The fact is, they were willing to agree to the movement in the compromises that were made. They clearly could have held their ground and we couldn't have moved forward. 
   By the way, Congressmen GOODLATTE, DAVIS, and SENSENBRENNER were the originators of this legislation. 
   I also thank Senator GORTON, Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator HATCH, and Senator BENNETT. 
   It reminds me of the old line of Jack Kennedy after the Bay of Pigs: Victory has 1,000 fathers and defeat has 1 poor lonely orphan. 
   Along with that philosophy, I thank the staff members on both sides of the aisle and both sides of the Capitol: Carol Grunberg of Senator WYDEN's staff; Shawn Maher of Senator DODD's staff; Jeanne Bumpus of Senator GORTON's staff; Larry Block with Senator HATCH; Steven Wall on Senator LOTT's staff; Laurie Rubenstein with Senator LIEBERMAN; Tania Calhoun of the Y2K Committee; Diana Schacht of the House Judiciary Committee; Phil Kiko, of Congressman SENSENBRENNER's staff; Amy Herrink, of Congressman DAVIS staff; and Ben Kline of Congressman GOODLATTE's staff. 
   Finally, I thank the coalition that got behind this legislation. Their help was as broad as any coalition of businesses--large, small, and medium sized--I have seen in my experience here in the Senate. 
   I thank the National Association of Manufacturers, the Chambers of Commerce, and hi-tech groups, including ITAA, ITI, and BSA. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. We could not have succeeded without them. 
   I do not intend to make further remarks except to reserve about 5 minutes of my time for the Senator from Washington. I reserve the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I have only been in this body for 13 years. I have never heard quite such a mischaracterization of legislation as the Senator from North Carolina just displayed. 
   I yield 5 minutes to the Senator from Washington. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I congratulate the Senator from South Carolina for his spirited and impassioned defense of his position. It is a great privilege to do combat with him, both in the committee and on the floor. I appreciate his eloquence as always. Since this time I believe we have the votes, I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to thank the managers of this bill for their hard work in putting forth this legislation which provides federal funding for numerous vital programs. However, I am sad to say, once again, I find myself in the unpleasant position of speaking about unacceptable levels of parochial projects in another appropriations bill. 
   I have asked rhetorically on the floor of the Senate many times when we are going to stop this destructive and irresponsible practice of earmarking special-interest pork-barrel projects in appropriations bills primarily for parochial reasons. I have yet to receive an answer and this practice has neither stopped nor slowed. Last year's Treasury Postal Appropriations bill contained well over $826 million in specifically earmarked pork-barrel spending. This year's bill is a drastic improvement over last year's bill in that it only contains a little over $293.6 million in wasteful, pork-barrel spending. $293.6 million of waste is much better than $826 million of waste, but waste is still waste. 
   Where does all this pork go? Well, as usual, this bill contains millions on top of millions for court house construction and repairs. We have $11,606,000 earmarked for repairs and alterations to the Frank M. Johnson, Jr. Federal Building--U.S. Courthouse in Montgomery, Alabama, and $21,098,000 for repairs and alterations to the Federal Building--U.S. Courthouse Annex in Anchorage, Alaska. I know that these court houses may be in dire need of repair and modernization. But are these particular projects more important than the litany of other court houses competing for funding? The process by which these two earmarks were added makes it impossible to assess the relative merit of these programs against all other priority needs. 
   In addition to earmarks for court houses, this bill contains the usual earmarks of money for locality-specific projects such as: $500,000 for the State Patrol Digital Distance Learning project to help the Nebraska State Patrol create computer-based training programs, and $250,000 to the Fort Buford reconstruction project for planning and design of the reconstruction of this Fort--a Lewis and Clark ``Corps of Discovery'' site. 
   Then there are the many sections of the report which have language strongly urging various Departments of the Federal Government to recognize or participate in a joint-venture with a particular project in a state. While these objectionable provisions have no direct monetary effect on the bill, this not-so-subtle ``urging'' is sure to have some financial benefit for someone or some enterprise in a member's home state. For example: Report language urging the continuation and expansion of the collaboration between the University of North Dakota and the Customs Service for rotorcraft training, and report language urging GSA to strongly consider the U.S. Olympic Committee's need for additional space and to give priority to the USOC's request to gain title or acquire the property located at 1520 Willamette Avenue in Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
   This bill also selects particular sites across the country for which the report language either provides additional spending for extra staff and personnel, or ``urges'' the Agency not to reduce its staff. For example: $750,000 for part-time and temporary positions in the Honolulu Customs District, Report language designating the Hector International Airport as an International Port of Entry, to be adequately staffed and equipped so that the users of the facility are provided efficient services, and report language directing the Customs Service to ensure that staffing levels are sufficient to staff and operate all New Mexico border facilities. 
   Why are these facilities protected at a time when each agency is required to abide by the Government Program Reduction Act which mandates that they operate more efficiently with less bureaucracy? Even if these positions are critical, why are they not prioritized in the normal administrative process? 
   Everyone knows that we are very close to breaking the spending caps. We have not done so as of yet. I hope my colleagues understand that just because we can fund these programs of questionable merit within the spending caps, that does not mean we have the right to spend tax payers' hard-earned dollars in such an irresponsible fashion. 
   I am constantly amazed by the arbitrary fashion by which the Appropriations Committee chooses to allocate the dollars that should be spent only  for important and necessary federal programs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. In closing, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the Capitol and on both sides of the aisle to develop a better standard which curbs our habit of funneling hard-earned taxpayer dollars to locality-specific special interests. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I fully support this amendment that is included in the manager's package to strike language from S. 1234, the foreign operations appropriations bill, which would have suspended the availability of fiscal year 2000 funding for the Inter-American Foundation until the General Accounting Office completes an investigation of alleged civil and criminal wrongdoing by employees at the Foundation. I want to thank the managers of the bill and the chairman of the committee for their willingness to remove this language. 
   I think it is important to explain for the record why this language was included in the committee-reported bill and what led to the amendment to strike. 
   Several months ago, the GAO contacted the Appropriations Committee asking permission to investigate information provided to their fraud hotline regarding allegations of contract and hiring regulatory abuses at the Foundation. GAO forwarded a report on these issues to the committee on May 20, 1999. During the course of that investigation, additional anonymous allegations were made to GAO investigators by employees of the Foundation, and the GAO requested permission from the committee to brief the Board of the Foundation on those allegations. However, the committee initially decided that the GAO should investigate these additional allegations, and included language in the bill to restrict the Foundation's funding until the investigation was completed. 
   When apprised of the language included in the bill and the committee's intention to direct GAO to investigate these additional allegations, I raised the issue with Chairman STEVENS and asked him to reconsider this approach. After discussing the matter, we agreed that additional information on the nature of the allegations should be sought in order to determine the appropriate course of action. 
   Last week, members of my staff and the Appropriations Committee staff met with representatives of the General Accounting Office to discuss their findings regarding the administrative investigation which was completed on May 20, as well as the additional allegations. Based on the information received at that briefing and GAO's characterization of the additional allegations as administrative in nature, we determined that the more appropriate way to proceed would be to accede to the GAO's request to brief the Board of the Foundation on these matters and allow the Board members to determine what further action, if any, should be taken. 
   Chairman STEVENS and Chairman MCCONNELL advised me that, by referring the matter to the Board, the committee would view this investigation as  complete, and GAO would not be requested to conduct any further investigations of these matters. This amendment, therefore, 
   removes any restrictions on IAF funding as well as any language that contemplates further GAO involvement in this matter, aside from advising the Board of their findings and the existence of additional allegations. 
   Mr. President, I fully support the decision to permit the General Accounting Office to brief the Board of the Foundation about allegations of misconduct at the Foundation. I believe that this is the appropriate and normal course of action in this type of matter, and I thank Senators STEVENS and MCCONNELL for agreeing to refer this matter to the Foundation's Board. 
   As my colleagues know, allegations of this sort are generally referred to an agency's inspector general for investigation and action, if necessary. Since the Foundation does not have an inspector general at this time, advising the Board or perhaps the Audit Committee of the Board (which functions as the Foundation's Inspector General) is the appropriate course of action, instead of pursuing a congressionally directed GAO investigation. 
   In addition, I sponsored and the Senate earlier adopted an amendment to S. 886, the foreign relations authorization bill, which requires the inspector general of the Agency for International Development to function in that capacity for the IAF, as well as the African Development Foundation. Hopefully, this will provide IAF with the oversight and investigatory authority to discover and deal with issues of this sort in the future, if necessary. 
   When our staff members were briefed by the GAO, they were advised of the specific nature of these so-called ``criminal'' allegations. The GAO characterized the allegations as administrative in nature, stating that, even if substantiated, these types of activities would very rarely draw criminal penalties and would instead be dealt with by a request for reimbursement or a reprimand, at most. In addition, it is important to know that most, if not all, of these allegations have already been reviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and their investigation found all of them to be unsubstantiated--a conclusion which the FBI addressed in a letter to the Foundation's Board Chair earlier this year. 
   Mr. President, I would never attempt to thwart any legitimate effort to uncover and eliminate fraud, unethical activities, or any type of misconduct in government or government-affiliated agencies. In this instance, however, I an concerned that these allegations about an individual at the Inter-American Foundation were designed to accomplish one end--the removal of that individual from effective employment at the Foundation because of his very successful efforts over the past several yeas to bring accountability, order, and legitimacy to an agency whose programs had been fraught with waste and abuse. 
   The individual involved discovered serious deficiencies and improprieties regarding the Foundation's grant-making program and the lack of oversight exercised by the Foundation program offers charged with overseeing Foundation grant organizations and contractors overseas. For example, this individual found that the Foundation had made grants to organizations in Ecuador involved in the kidnapping of U.S. citizens. This individual also took decisive action when it was discovered that the Foundation provided financial support to an organization in Argentina that engaged in acts of serious civil disobedience, including the seizure of public buildings and the blockage of roadways. 
   This individual also exposed fraudulent activities of overseas contractors of the Foundation, including the extortion of funds from Foundation grantee organizations. Finally, he established personnel time and attendance policies at the Foundation to correct rampant absenteeism and non-performance of duties. 
   This individual's successful efforts to make the Foundation's employees and Board accountable for their actions and decisions involving U.S. taxpayer dollars have caused some of these people to engage in a vendetta to remove him from his position at the Foundation, or at least minimize his effectiveness in that post. 
   Mr. President, regardless of the outcome of the Board's review of these latest retaliatory allegations against this individual, I believe there should be a thorough investigation of the Board and employees of the Foundation to ensure that the above-mentioned activities are no longer occurring. I also believe it would be prudent to determine whether improper hiring or personnel practices, misuse of government funds or equipment, theft or loss of government funds or property, conflicts of interest, or other improprieties or mismanagement--allegations similar to those falsely made against the individual involved in this matter--exist anywhere in the organization. These are matter that should be reviewed at the earliest opportunity by the AID inspector general, who will soon be serving as the inspector general for the Foundation. 
   Let me serve notice that I will continue to monitor activities at the Foundation with respect to the handling of this matter, and I will do everything in my power to ensure that the matter is resolved fairly and in a manner consistent with the handling of similar allegations in any other agency of government. 
   Again, I thank my colleagues for concluding the committee's involvement in this issue and referring the matter to the Foundation for appropriate administrative review. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to join with Senator KERRY in offering an amendment to the foreign operations appropriations bill that would replace language currently in the bill pertaining to Cambodia with language that I firmly believe will prove far more productive in accomplishing our goals in that strife-torn nation. The amendment would replace the current prohibition on assistance pending unrealistic and counterproductive certifications with attainable goals consistent with the positive developments that have occurred in Cambodia since its elections last July. 
   Few countries in the entire world have experienced the scale of suffering since the Second World War that was inflicted upon the people of Cambodia between 1975 and 1979. A phrase that has become a part of our normal lexicon in discussions of tragedies of great proportion in foreign countries originated in descriptions of the killing fields of Cambodia. What transpired in that country during the rule of the Khmer Rouge defies comprehension. It is a history, however, that must not be forgotten. 
   After decades of struggling with political events in Cambodia, we have an opportunity to finally help it move in a positive direction. We have an opportunity to help the people of that beautiful nation to begin to put their painful past behind them, and to join the community of nations in good standing. We cannot accomplish that objective, however, with the language currently in the bill before us today. That language prohibits all direct U.S. assistance to the central government of Cambodia until the Secretary of State certifies that the July 1998 elections were free and fair, with emphasis on the period leading up to election day. 
   Few would argue that numerous irregularities occurred in the months leading up to the election of July 26, 1998. I wish that had not been the case. But those irregularities took place, and we cannot change the past. The question, however, becomes where we go from here. The election itself was, by and large, a free and fair election, and it is unlikely that the pre-election irregularities fundamentally altered its outcome. Since the election, the main competing factions have agreed at an amicable arrangement, and Cambodia today stands its best chance of making significant political and economic progress. A U.S. role, which is currently limited to support of nongovernmental organizations anyway, can be instrumental in facilitating greater levels of liberalization. The Central Government of Cambodia shows every sign of wanting to move in that direction. That is why the language in this bill is so troubling. It fails to account for a far more positive political atmosphere in Cambodia than has existed in decades. 
   We can help Cambodia to move forward, or we can stand aside and see an opportunity to act productively in Southeast Asia squandered. I am under no illusions about the scale of problems that continue to plague that troubled nation. The government of Phnom Penh must move forward on the issue of establishing an international tribunal for the prosecution of Khmer Rouge officials, it must continue to address pressing issues like deforestation, and it must carry out needed political and economic reforms. But we must not let an important opportunity to help such reforms move forward by restricting aid unless the State Department certifies to something all parties know cannot be certified. We can predicate our policy toward Cambodia on the past, or we can remember the past but look to the future. The Kerry-McCain amendment provides an opportunity to do the latter. I urge its support. 
   AMENDMENT 1173
   At the appropriate place, insert the following section: 
   SEC. . EXPANDED THREAT REDUCTION INITIATIVE.
   It is the sense of the Senate that the programs contained in the Expanded Threat Reduction Initiative are vital to the national security of the United States and that funding for those programs should be restored in conference to the levels requested in the President's budget.  
   AMENDMENT 1174
   At the appropriate place in the bill, insert the following: 
   SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING U.S. COMMITMENTS UNDER THE U.S.-NORTH KOREAN AGREED FRAMEWORK.--It is the Sense of the Senate that, as long as North Korea meets its obligations under the U.S.-North Korean nuclear Agreed Framework of 1994, the U.S. should meet its commitments under the Agreed Framework, including required deliveries of heavy fuel oil to North Korea and support of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO).  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990630</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, United States national security and economic well-being is closely tied to our ability to formulate and execute foreign policies that both protect our interests and reflect our ideals. It is the responsibility of the Congress to pass legislation on foreign policy consistent with those interests and ideals. We may differ about the means, but we seldom disagree about the goal: political stability and economic prosperity in every region of the globe. Sometimes we employ political and economic sanctions in pursuit of our objectives; sometimes we resort to the use of military force. These responsibilities are considerable, and they are real. And we owe it to the American public to handle them responsibly. 
   I do not wish to exaggerate the implications of the questionable spending that is included in the bill before us. Clearly, the wasteful and unnecessary spending provisions, as well as the numerous earmarks, threaten neither our national interest nor our economic well-being. They do, however, detract from the integrity of the process by which the federal budget is put together, and they do undermine our credibility with the public. The net result is to diminish our ability to contribute substantially to this nation's national security and economic policies. Frivolous items placed in major spending bills for parochial or personal reasons is a serious disservice to the institution to which we belong, and to the public that we serve. 
   It is for this reason that is so discouraging to read the foreign operations appropriations bill and find that, once again, it includes $5 million to establish an International Law Enforcement Academy in Roswell, New Mexico. To see that provision once again placed in the bill is to reaffirm the notion that fiscal prudence and operational requirements are alien concepts to some members of this body. Similarly, language in the report accompanying the bill recommending that the Agency for International Development spend as much as necessary on such worthwhile projects as research on pond dynamics strikes me as representing a seriously misplaced sense of priorities. And should we really be earmarking more than $1 million in additional funds so that a Minnesota job training program can shift its dependence to private sector funding? In a foreign aid bill? I have to question the wisdom of provisions like these. 
   Mr. President, as United States military forces take up positions in Kosovo while others continue their peacekeeping efforts in Bosnia and soldiers serve unaccompanied hardship tours on the demilitarized zone of the Korean peninsula, what kind of message are we sending about our role in the foreign policy process when we pass a bill that directs the Agency for International Development to study and, almost certainly, fund research on protea germplasm in South Africa? With all the problems around the world demanding our attention, do we really need to focus on the future welfare of the Waboom tree? I think not. And, of course, the bill provides the usual absurd amount--specified as ``at least'' $4 million--for that oldie but goodie, the International Fertilizer Center in Alabama. I have to believe, Mr. President, that if the Department of State or the Agency for International Development agreed with the need to spend so much annually out of the foreign operations budget for research on fertilizer, it would probably include such an item in its budget request. 
   Israel and Hawaii collaborating on research regarding the competitiveness of the tropical fish and plant global market sounds contrived, but I'll allow for the possibility that there's more to that program than meets the eye. When viewed alongside the report's language ``urging'' AID to allocate $500,000 for the Pacific International Center for High Technology Research, a pattern begins to form, but I won't elaborate further. 
   As usual, the foreign operations appropriations bill includes a long list of earmarks for specific American universities, the very kind of budgeting that ensures the American taxpayers get the least value for their dollar. A competitive process wherein funding is allocated according to which project, if any, is the most meritorious is a preferred process for allocating financial resources, but this bill goes far in the opposite direction. As a leader in the effort at developing normal economic relations with Vietnam, I applaud projects designed to facilitate the establishment of a market economy in that country; whether Boise State University deserves a $3 million earmark to establish a business school there, however, strains credulity. 
   There is much that is good in this bill in terms of genuine efforts at improving health care in less developed countries. I continue to be troubled, however, by the Committee's tendency to specify precisely which organizations it believes should be the recipient of foreign aid dollars. That is a practice that deserves closer scrutiny than heretofore has been the case. I would like to think that such determinations are solely merit based following a competitive process and that parochial considerations play no part. Skepticism, though, is warranted. 
   In closing, I am a strong supporter of maintaining an active U.S. role in global affairs. United States foreign aid programs are an essential instrument of our national security policy. Even with the vast number of troubling items in this bill, I will support its passage. But I would be remiss in my responsibilities were I to ignore what I firmly believe is an imprudent budgeting process that has a self-defeating tendency to squander foreign aid dollars that we can ill-afford to waste. I will continue to hope for improvements in the process by which these bills are assembled. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990623</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably nomination list which was printed in the RECORD of May 12, 1999, at the end of the Senate proceedings, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar, that the nomination lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990622</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, unfortunately I was unable to vote on the cloture petition on the motion to proceed to H.R. 975, the Steel Import Limitation Act. If I was able, I would have voted against cloture. This legislation will not achieve its desired purpose and will only hurt American workers and consumers. 
   Some supporters of this legislation have asserted that this bill is necessary to support the steel industry. I am willing to do my part to ensure that America continues to have the most efficient and competitive steel industry in the world. The domestic steel industry plays an important role in protecting our national security by ensuring that we will have enough steel to build ships, tanks, planes, and missiles to protect the United States. Additionally, steel remains an important input in large sectors of our economy, including transportation equipment, fabricated metal products, industrial machinery and construction. 
   However, this legislation is not written to save domestic steel jobs, but instead will jeopardize American jobs. For every 1 job that produces steel, 40 jobs in the downstream industries use steel. If Congress passes this quota legislation, it will cause a shortage and drastic increase in the price of steel that will threaten the jobs of the 8 million employees in steel-using industries. For example, Caterpillar, Inc. uses a heavy special-section steel for bulldozer track-shoes. This steel is not produced in the United States, so Caterpillar imports it from overseas to its American plants. If we pass this quota legislation, Caterpillar will not be able to import the steel it requires, which will threaten the jobs of Caterpillar's 40,261 workers in the U.S. 
   I also do not think that this quota legislation will help the steel industry. According to the Wall Street Journal, American steelmakers buy up to 25% of the steel coming into the United States. The steel companies need to buy this steel to reach their highest capacity of steel production. Weirton imports close to 400,000 tons of slab a year. Bethlehem Steel imported at least 416,000 tons of steel last year. If we shut off the necessary imports of foreign steel to these companies, how can they keep American steel product workers employed? 
   While I know that the steel industry has been affected by the dumping of foreign steel in the U.S. market, I believe that the proper steps have been taken to deal with this crisis. Since January, 1999, 42 antidumping and countervailing duty steel investigations have been initiated or completed. As a result of just one of these anti-dumping cases, duties of between 67.14% and 17.86% will be imposed on select Japanese firms. These duties will ensure that U.S. companies will have a better chance to compete. 
   That the existing process for handling anti-dumping cases is working is proven by the recent statistics on steel imports. Total steel imports dropped 42% from August, 1998, to April, 1999. In fact, April, 1999, imports are actually 6% below steel imports in April, 1997. Imports of hot-rolled steel, which account for 25 percent of all steel imports, fell 72% since the peak levels of November, 1998. Hot-rolled steel imports from Japan, Russia, and Brazil fell almost 100% from November to April. It is no wonder that Secretary Daley said in the Friday, June 18, Washington Post that ``the steel crisis of '98, in my opinion, is over.'' Given the decline in recent imports, there seems to be no need for this legislation. These results, under existing law, were attained in a manner fully consistent with our obligations under the World Trade Organization. 
   This leads me to a more important point. We should not look at this legislation in only the narrow view of what it will do for the steel industry. Instead, we should see what it will do to the world economy.  
   The past two years have been devastating for many of our trading partners. Most of Asia is slowly turning the corner back from the disaster of the Asian economic crisis. Just recently, Japan announced a positive growth rate of 1.9% after six successive quarters of contraction. Both Brazil and Argentina have suffered from economic turmoil. In Europe, the Russian economy remains a basket case. Germany, the former European economic powerhouse, grew a mere 0.4% in real terms, and is on the verge of recession. 
   The United States must be careful not to do anything that will plunge the world into recession. If we were to pass this non-WTO compliant legislation, the likely result is that other countries will respond by limiting our products from their markets. The resulting trade wars could affect millions of workers and lead to economic and political turmoil. While some view such a result as extreme, we all should remember that the Smoot-Hawley tariff legislation started a similar series of trade wars in the early 1930s that directly corresponded to the rise of Hitler and the origins of World War II. 
   Some would urge us to pass this legislation with the hopes that it will emasculate the WTO. I can only tell you how much I regret this short-sighted view. The United States, more than any other country, created today's trading system based on the principles of free trade. It was developed after witnessing how the trade wars of the 1930s led to the worldwide calamity of World War II. The United States has pursued a trade policy based on open markets for more than 50 years under both Republican and Democratic leadership. We should not allow misguided politics to destroy all of the gains that we fought so hard to achieve, precisely when we are reaping the benefits of these policies. 
   Instead, the United States, which has the strongest economy in the world, should try to use its leverage to continue to open markets. We should open the November WTO Ministerial as the champions of competition and open markets, not hiding behind a wall of quotas and tariffs. We in Congress should do our part to ensure that the United States remains in its position of world leadership. Instead of debating this ill-advised quota bill, we should be passing fast track authority for the President. The President needs this authority to continue to make agreements to knock down foreign barriers to American goods. Additionally, we should pass legislation to grant NAFTA parity to our Caribbean allies and to give trade incentives to help Africa grow and prosper. My hope is that after we reject this current legislation, we can start debating real progress in trade policy and how we can eliminate barriers to foreign goods to ensure that our citizens continue to prosper into the 21st Century. 
   In conclusion, I congratulate my colleagues who voted against cloture on the motion to proceed to this legislation. We will now begin the next global century not hiding behind barriers, but continuing the fight for open markets and prosperity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990621</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation that would increase the authorization level of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The recently passed TEA-21 legislation authorized NHTSA at its requested level, approximately $87.4 million. 
   Although the Department of Transportation requested $87.4 million, Secretary Slater now informs us that this authorization level will not permit the funding of key safety initiatives. The bill would increase the funding levels to approximately $107.8 million. This amount is consistent with the amount recently reported by the House Commerce Committee. It is my intention to move this matter quickly in the committee. 
   I know that no one in this body wants a situation where highway safety is degraded in any way. I look forward to working with my colleagues to address this important issue of highway safety in a manner that provides the appropriate funding level to meet safety needs while also meeting our budget obligations and the consensus of the Appropriations Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will be glad to wait until Senator DOMENICI finishes his remarks. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment is pretty straightforward. It restricts the expenditure of funds for loan guarantee programs until the appropriate committees have authorized the expenditures for these programs and these authorizations have been approved by the Congress.  
   In other words, with this amendment, we carry out what is supposed to be the procedures of the Senate, and that is, before taxpayers' dollars are expended, they are authorized. 
   All of my colleagues know that this loan program for steel, oil and gas companies has been inserted into the appropriations bill, and it has not gone through the authorizing committee process. 
   The legislation creates an unnecessary and unwarranted loan program for steel, oil and gas industries. Once again, Congress is seizing an opportunity to engage in the all-too-common game of pork barrel politics. The bill was originally intended to address the President's request of $6 billion for the war in Kosovo but quickly became a vehicle for a hasty and ill-conceived program to subsidize the steel, oil and gas industries. 
   The bill creates a $1 billion loan guarantee program to support the domestic steel industry and a $500 million loan guarantee program for oil and gas companies. These programs will provide loan guarantees of up to $250 million for any domestic steel company, $10 million for any oil and gas company that ``has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses.'' 
   I do not take lightly the value of these industries to our Nation, nor do I disagree that in the case of steel imports, illegal dumping of foreign steel has occurred. However, I question the wisdom of creating an emergency loan program to subsidize an industry that finds itself in trouble. We set a dangerous precedent by opening the Federal Treasury to industries facing economic difficulties. 
   Specifically, I have three problems with this measure. There is no need for these substantial loan programs. The legislation is fundamentally flawed, and using the appropriations process to enact this measure circumvents the normal authorization process. These elements are common in all three loan programs. I will focus my comments on the steel loan program because I believe it is the driving force behind this matter and the most egregious. 
   First, I seriously question the need to create such a substantial loan guarantee program. During today's debate, I am certain my colleagues will forewarn and have forewarned the dire consequences to the steel industry if we fail to enact this legislation. As my colleagues hear these predictions, I ask you to keep a few facts in mind. 
   In 1998, the U.S. steel industry produced 102 million tons of steel. This was only slightly below the record of 1997 of 105 million tons, making it the second highest production year since 1980. This record production year resulted in earnings of $1.4 billion. Furthermore, 11 of the 13 largest steel mills were profitable. These numbers make it difficult for me to understand the need to create a $1 billion loan program. 
   Even if there were a steel crisis, it is certainly over. Citing Commerce Department statistics, the White House recently stated that during the first quarter of 1999, overall steel imports returned to the traditional pre-crisis levels. In fact, 
   imports were down 4 percent in comparison to 1997. Again, the need for this program at this point eludes me. 
   My second concern is that the bill will result in the needless loss of taxpayers' funds. Supporters argue that this measure is paid for with budget cuts and administrative fees. They point out the program guarantees loans and does not actually lend money. This assertion ignores the history of such loan programs. 
   In the mid-1970s, the Economic Development Administration operated a similar program for the steel industry. The result of that program was disastrous for the taxpayers. Steel companies defaulted on 77 percent of the dollar value of their guarantees. An analysis of that loan program by the Congressional Research Service concluded that loans to steel companies represent a high level of risk. Nevertheless, we are poised today to provide an additional $1 billion in guarantees. I find it ironic that at a time when the American public is demanding reform of our public institutions, we offer them the failed economic policies of the 1970s. 
   The measure also fails to require that losses triggering access to the loans relate to the so-called steel crisis. Therefore, companies that lost production as a result of the 54-day GM strike will also be eligible for the loan program. 
   Furthermore, the program could benefit companies that suffer losses after the steel crisis was over. Companies that suffer losses or layoffs in 1999 or even the year 2000 are eligible for the program. Many of the losses suffered by steel companies are the normal result of operating in a competitive global market. 
   The measure also fails to set terms, conditions, or interest rates for the guarantees. Instead, it leaves these critical decisions to the discretion of the board making the loans. The only guidance given to the board is that the terms should be reasonable. 
   These provisions are problematic and will likely result in taxpayers guaranteeing bad loans. 
   Finally, I have serious concerns about how this provision was brought to the Senate floor. I will remind my colleagues that our forebears intended the Senate to be a forum for reasoned and informed debate. Unfortunately, some Members choose to legislate complex and controversial matters in appropriations bills. The result is a hasty review of legislation with very little time to identify and discuss its implications. It also denies the committee of jurisdiction the ability to review these important measures, which will require the commitment of millions of taxpayer dollars. 
   The amendment that is at the desk will restrict the expenditure of funds for the loan guarantee programs until the appropriate committees have explicitly authorized the expenditure for these programs. 
   Authorizing on an appropriations bill has become an all too common event in the Senate. However, this is one of the most egregious examples of legislating on an appropriations bill I have seen since I have been in Congress. Out of the more than 20 pages of text in the bill, only 23 lines contain appropriations language. The rest of the bill goes on to authorize a $1 billion loan guarantee program for steel companies and a $500 million loan guarantee program for oil and gas companies. 
   These programs will place at risk hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars. It will do so without a hearing, without testimony from those affected by it, and without the consideration of those who have the most experience with loan guarantee programs. 
   I point out also that this legislation is complex and controversial. My colleagues will offer amendments today which attempt to resolve some of these issues, but this process is inadequate and is not a substitution for the authorization process. 
   The appropriate authorizing committee should be allowed to examine the provisions of this bill. They can most appropriately determine what remedies, if any, should be taken to help the domestic steel, oil, and gas industries. Instead, these loan guarantee programs are simply being rushed upon us on the Senate floor without proper consideration. 
   This amendment requires that the measure go through the normal authorization process that every other measure should go through. I hope my colleagues will support the amendment. 
   I listened carefully to the words of the Senator from West Virginia, who is an individual I admire and appreciate. He is a person of great compassion. I believe I share that compassion, whenever there are changes or layoffs in industries that for one reason or another are unable to compete in what is now becoming increasingly a global marketplace. 
   I also am happy to say I will support job training programs, ways for workers to make a transition into other lines of business and work, retraining, and other public-private partnerships, of which there are many in America today. 
   But there should be one lesson that the 1970s and 1980s and early 1990s have taught us, and that is the economy of the world is undergoing a profound and fundamental change. We are changing from what once was an economy based on the steel industry, the oil industry, the railroads, the automobile industries, the product of the industrial revolution, to one 
   which is rapidly evolving into a high-tech information, technology-based economy. 
   I refer my colleagues to the testimony of Alan Greenspan to the Joint  Economic Committee in the last few days. It is a very illuminating discussion of the transition that America's economy is undergoing. 
   This transition overall has led to the strongest economic period in the history of this country. There is literally a kind of prosperity that, thank God, is affecting this country which is providing jobs and opportunities that we literally have never seen before in our lifetimes. That is the good news. 
   But the bad news is there are industries which, for a broad variety of reasons--which we have seen throughout history, as certain industries have been replaced by others--either cannot compete or there is not a need for the product that they manufactured. 
   I remember once visiting Pittsburgh, PA, once one of the heartlands of the steel industry in America, and seeing where there had once been steel mills; and there were the ensuing environmental problems associated with that. Now high-tech industries, that are clean industries, are employing people at equal or higher salaries. 
   People in Pittsburgh went through a wrenching change. I remember in the State of California, and to a lesser extent my State, when we started cutting back on defense spending in the early 1990s. Literally hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs because of the cutbacks in defense spending. 
   Now I travel to California and see a booming economy, an incredibly, unbelievably, booming economy, both in my State and the neighboring States. What happened? It went through a very wrenching and difficult experience going from a defense-dependent industrial base to now a high-tech information technology base. 
   It was not an easy transition. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs in California. But I know of no one who said: Keep spending this level of defense money and prop up these industries forever, because we don't want them to lose jobs because they're going through difficult times. 
   I have the greatest sympathy for any steelworker who is out of a job. I will do everything I can to help in retraining, in job opportunity, and education for those workers. But if there should be one lesson we learned in the 1970s and 1980s, it is that you cannot keep industries in business with Government subsidies, because if they cannot compete without them, over time they will not be able to compete with them. 
   As much as I admire and respect the Senator from West Virginia, he and I have a profound philosophical difference of opinion about the role of Government. He said we should help whatever industry is in trouble. Yes, we should help, by trying to take care of the displaced workers, but not by keeping obsolete or noncompetitive industries in business when we have the ability to transition into much higher-paying jobs and better industries that provide advancements in technological improvement for all of our lives. 
   I often have the pleasure of debating my dear friend and colleague from South Carolina, Senator HOLLINGS, who makes an impassioned plea for the textile industry in South Carolina, and bemoans, laments the great dislocation that took place there. I had the pleasure of going to the BMW plant which, thanks to a 
   great degree of effort by Senator HOLLINGS, located in Columbia, SC. There are more jobs, higher-paying jobs, expanding jobs, and much better working conditions at the BMW plant than there were in the textile mills. 
   The transition is going on. The transition is going on at an even more rapid pace than any of us in this body ever anticipated, and as a fundamental change from an industrial-based economy to one which is now increasingly technological-based. 
   Those that take advantage of this opportunity and make the transition will grow and prosper. Fifteen years ago there was hardly a Member of this body who new where the Silicon Valley was; now everybody in America knows where it is. 
   Recently, in the past few weeks, a corporation called Global Crossing announced they were going to merge with U.S. West, one of the largest telecommunications companies in America. Three years ago, Global Crossing did not exist as a corporation. This same story can be repeated throughout America's economy. 
   We should not be spending our time authorizing on appropriations--not even authorizing. We should not be spending our time appropriating money to subsidize companies and corporations with loans which history shows us had a 77-percent default the last time we did it. 
   What we should be doing is making every effort we can, as a Government, to help them make the transition, which sooner or later they will inevitably go through. Because over time, the harnessmakers, once the automobile was invented, went out of business. It will happen here, too. 
   Again, I want to point out that I will do everything I can to help any worker who is displaced. I will support Government programs that work. I will especially support public-private partnerships, which have been largely successful, to provide America with the educated workforce necessary to take advantage of this incredible change that is going on in America and the world, in which America leads. 
   But to go back to a failed program of subsidized loans, in which in the 1970s the steel companies defaulted on 77 percent of the dollar value of their guarantees, and eventually ended up, by the way, in just as bad shape as they were in before they received those guarantees and defaulted on all those loans, I think is a serious mistake, 
   a failure to recognize that, as societies change and industries change, and as evolution goes on, to try to have Government intervene and subsidize is not a success. 
   That is why I oppose this amendment, not only on the grounds of the procedures involved, which I find, as an authorizing committee chairman, offensive, but the concept and the idea that somehow this will succeed, I believe, flies in the face of all historical data, and, by the way, also flies in the face of what we Republicans are supposed to stand for. 
   I ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the vote be delayed until the majority and minority leaders agree as to the time for the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in light of the fact the Senator from New Mexico wants to speak on this amendment, I ask for the regular order. 
   With all due respect to my friends, we were going to vote 45 minutes ago. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask for the regular order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990617</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the energy and water appropriations bill is fundamental to our Nation's energy and defense-related activities, and takes care of vitally important water resources infrastructure needs. Unfortunately, this bill diverts from its intended purpose by including a multitude of additional, unrequested earmarks to the tune of $531 million. 
   This amount is substantially less than the earmarks included in the FY '99 appropriations bill and I commend my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their hard work in putting this bill together. In fact, this year's recommendation is about 60 percent lower than the earmarks included in last year's appropriation bill. My optimism was raised upon reading the committee report which states that the Committee is ``reducing the number of projects with lower priority benefits.'' Unfortunately, while the Committee attempts to be more fiscally responsible, there is a continuing focus on parochial, special interest concerns. 
   Funding is provided in this bill for projects where it is very difficult to ascertain their overall importance to the security and infrastructure of our nation. 
   Let me highlight a few examples: 
   $3,000,000 is provided for an ethanol pilot plant at Southern Illinois University; $300,000 is provided to the Vermont Agriculture Methane project; $400,000 is included for aquatic weed control at Lake Champlain in Vermont, and, $100,000 in additional funding for mosquito control in North Dakota. 
   How are these activities connected to the vital energy and water resource needs of our nation? Why are these projects higher in priority than other flood control, water conservation or renewable energy projects? These are the type of funding improprieties that make a mockery of our budget process. 
   Various projects are provided with additional funding at levels higher than requested by the Administration. The stated reasons include the desire to finish some projects in a reasonable timeframe. Unfortunately, other projects are put on hold or on a slower track. The inconsistency between the Administration's request, which is responsible for carrying out these projects, and the views of the Appropriators on just how much funding should be dedicated to a project, is troubling. As a result, various other projects that may be equally deserving or higher in priority do not receive an appropriate amount of funding, or none at all. Many of my objections are based on these types of inconsistencies and nebulous spending practices. 
   Another $92 million above the budget request is earmarked in additional funding for regional power authorities. I fail to understand why we continue to spend millions of federal dollars at a time when power authorities are increasingly operating independent of federal assistance. Even the Bonneville Power Administration, one of these power entities, is self-financed and operates without substantial federal assistance. 
   We must stop this practice of wasteful spending. It is unconscionable to repeatedly ask the taxpayers to foot the bill for these biased actions. We must work harder to focus our limited resources on those areas of greatest need nationwide, not political clout. 
   I remind my colleagues that I object to these earmarks on the basis of their circumvention of our established process, which is to properly consider, authorize and fund projects based on merit and need. Indeed, I commend my colleagues for not including any projects which are unauthorized. However, there are still too many cases of erroneous earmarks for projects that we have no way of knowing whether, at best, all or part of this $531 million should have been spent on different projects with greater need or, at worst, should not have been spent at all. 
   I supported passage of this bill, but let me state for the record that this is not the honorable way to carry out our fiscal responsibilities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as United States military forces deploy into war-torn Kosovo for another protracted, costly stay of indeterminate duration and of considerable potential risk, I am left wondering why, with all of the readiness and modernization problems that are well-established matters of record, we felt compelled to add over $6 million in this bill for a new Visiting Officers Quarters at Niagara Falls. Is this really the message we want to send to our military personnel and to the American taxpayer. I think not. 
   The propensity of members of Congress to devote enormous time and energy to adding items to spending bills for primarily parochial considerations remains one of our most serious weaknesses. The implications for national defense, however, are no laughing matter. Those of us who serve on the Armed Services Committee have heard a great deal of testimony from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as well as from  regional and functional commanders in chief, of the impact extraordinarily high operational tempos are having on both near- and long-term military readiness. And we hear it directly from troops in the field. They are tired; repeated deployments and declining quality of life has taken a toll. A vicious cycle has emerged wherein the impact of high deployment rates and shrinking force structure are exacerbated by the flight of skilled personnel out of the service as a result of those trends. 
   So I have to wonder why, given the scale of the problems documented, we are adding $12 million to the budget for new visitors quarters at Dover Air Force Base, $12 million for a Regional Training Institute in Hawaii, $3 million for a Marine Corps Reserve Center in Louisiana, $8.9 million for a C-130J simulator facility in Mississippi, $8 million for the Red Butte Dam in Utah, and $15 million for an Armed Forces Reserve Center in Oregon. None of these projects--none of them--were requested by the Department of Defense, and none of them are on the services' Unfunded Priority Lists. Unrequested projects totaling $985 million--almost $1 billion--was added to this bill, on top of the $5 billion in member-adds included in the defense appropriations bill passed last week. 
   I have asked rhetorically on the floor of the Senate many times when we are going to stop this destructive and irresponsible practice of adding projects to the defense budget primarily for parochial reasons. I have yet to receive an answer. Certainly, the practice has neither stopped nor slowed. The last minute insertion in the defense appropriations bill of $220 million for four F-15 fighters not requested by the Air Force solely for the purpose of appeasing hometown constituencies was one of the more disgraceful acts I've witnessed since, well, since we went through the same exercise last year. The total in unrequested items between the defense and military construction appropriations bills is almost $6 billion. That is serious money. 
   As American pilots continue to patrol the skies over Iraq, maintain a tenuous peace in Bosnia, and proceed into uncharted terrain in Kosovo, we would do well to consider the ramifications of our actions. I'm under no illusions, however, that such contemplation will occur. It is apparently, and sadly, not in our nature. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the bill we are considering today, the energy and water appropriations bill, is fundamental to our nation's energy and defense related activities, and takes care of vitally important water resources infrastructure needs. Unfortunately, this bill diverts from its intended purpose by including a multitude of additional, unrequested earmarks to the tune of $531 million. 
   This amount is substantially less than the earmarks included in the FY'99 appropriations bill and I commend my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for their hard work in putting this bill together. In fact, this year's recommendation is about 60 percent lower than the earmarks included in last year's appropriation bill. My optimism was raised upon reading the committee report which states that the Committee is ``reducing the number of projects with lower priority benefits.'' Unfortunately, while the Committee attempts to be more fiscally responsible, there is a continuing focus on parochial, special interest concerns. 
   Funding is provided in this bill for projects where it is very difficult to ascertain their overall importance to the security and infrastructure of our nation. 
   Let me highlight a few examples: 
   $3,000,000 is provided for an ethanol pilot plant at Southern Illinois University; 
   $300,000 is provided to the Vermont Agriculture Methane project; 
   $400,000 is included for aquatic weed control at Lake Champlain in Vermont, and, 
   $100,000 in additional funding for mosquito control activities in North Dakota. 
   How are these activities connected to the vital energy and water resource needs of our nation? Why are these projects higher in priority than other flood control, water conservation or renewable energy projects? These are the type of funding improprieties that make a mockery of our budget process. 
   Various projects are provided with additional funding at levels higher than requested by the Administration. The stated reasons include the desire to finish some projects in a reasonable timeframe. Unfortunately, other projects are put on hold or on a slower track. The inconsistency between the Administration's request, which is responsible for carrying out these projects, and the views of the Appropriators on just how much funding should be dedicated to a project, is troubling. As a result, various other projects that may be equally deserving or higher in priority do not receive an appropriate amount of funding, or none at all. Many of my objections are based on these types of inconsistencies and nebulous spending practices. 
   Another $92 million above the budget request is earmarked in additional funding for regional power authorities. I fail to understand why we continue to spend millions of federal dollars at a time when power authorities are increasingly operating independent of federal assistance. Even the Bonneville Power Administration, one of these power entities, is self-financed and operates without substantial federal assistance. 
   We must stop this practice of wasteful spending. It is unconscionable to repeatedly ask the taxpayers to foot the bill for these biased actions. We must work harder to focus our limited resources on those areas of greatest need nationwide, not political clout. 
   I remind my colleagues that I object to these earmarks on the basis of their circumvention of our established process, which is to properly consider, authorize and fund projects based on merit and need. Indeed, I commend my colleagues for not including any projects which are unauthorized. However, there are still too many cases of erroneous earmarks for projects that we have no way of knowing whether, at best, all or part of this $531 million should have been spent on different projects with greater need or, at worst, should not have been spent at all. 
   I will support passage of this bill, but let me state for the RECORD that this is not the honorable way to carry out our fiscal responsibilities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to join my colleague Senator CHAFEE in introducing the Immigrant Children's Health Improvement Act of 1999. This legislation would help provide access to health care through the  Medicaid system for pregnant women and children who are legal immigrants. 
   In 1996, Congress passed and President Clinton signed into law the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act making critical reforms to our nation's welfare system. This greatly needed piece of legislation is dramatically improving our nation's welfare system by requiring able-bodied welfare recipients to work and encouraging individuals to become self-sufficient. 
   As my colleagues know, the welfare reform law limits most means-tested benefits for legal residents who are not citizens. The specific provision affecting these benefits is based on the principle that those who immigrate to this nation pledge to be self-sufficient, and should comply with that agreement. However, I have been concerned that this provision is having a negative impact on a vulnerable segment of our population, children and pregnant women. 
   My concern is not new. While Congress was considering this legislation, I raised concerns regarding several provisions which could have negative impact on certain vulnerable populations including children, pregnant women, the elderly and disabled. I believe our nation has a responsibility to provide assistance, when necessary, to our most vulnerable citizens, regardless of whether they were born here or in another country. I am pleased that Congress has addressed many of these concerns and implemented a number of changes to the 1996 welfare reform law. However, my concern for the pregnant women and children who are legal immigrants but were not protected by the changes implemented since 1996 still remains. 
   The consequences of lack of insurance are problematic for everyone, but they are particularly serious for children. Uninsured and low income children are less likely to receive vital primary and preventative care services. This is quite discouraging since it is repeatedly demonstrated that regular health care visits facilitate the continuity of care which plays a critical role in the development of a healthy child. For example, one analysis found that children living in families with incomes below the poverty line were more likely to go without a physician visit than those with Medicaid coverage or those with other insurance. The result is many uninsured, low-income children not seeking health care services until they are seriously sick. These dismal consequences of lack of access to quality health care also have disastrous impacts on pregnant women and their unborn children. 
   Studies have further demonstrated that many of these children are more likely to be hospitalized or receive their care in emergency rooms, which means higher health care costs for conditions that could have been treated with appropriate outpatient services or prevented through regular checkups. Receiving the appropriate prenatal care is essential for the health delivery and development for the unborn child which can help stave off future, more costly health care needs. 
   Under our bill, states would be given the option to allow legal immigrant children and pregnant women to have access to medical services under the Medicaid program. Again, let me reiterate--this is completely optional for the states and is not mandatory This bill would provide our states with the flexibility to address the health care needs of some of our most vulnerable--our children and pregnant women. 
   I urge our colleagues to support this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990616</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I join my colleagues today in introducing the 21st Century Media Responsibility Act. This bill would establish a uniform product labeling system for violent  content by requiring the manufacturers of motion pictures, video programs, interactive video games, and music recording products, provide plain-English labels on product packages and advertising so that parents can make informed purchasing decisions. 
   The most basic and profound responsibility that our culture--any culture--has, is raising its children. We are failing that responsibility, and the extent of our failure is being measured in the deaths, and injuries of our kids in the schoolyard and on the streets of our neighborhoods and communities. 
   Primary responsibility lies with families. As a country, we are not parenting our children. This is our job, our paramount responsibility, and most unfortunately, we are failing. We must get our priorities straight, and that means putting our kids first. 
   However, parents need help, because our homes and our families--our children's minds, are being flooded by a tide of violence. this dehumanizing violence pervades our society: our movies depict graphic violence; our children are taught to kill and maim by interactive video games; much of the music that inundates our children's lives delivers messages of hate and violence. Our culture is dominated by media, and our children, more so than any generation before them, is vulnerable to the images of violence that, unfortunately, are dominant themes in so much of what they see, and hear. 
   It is beyond debate that exposure to media violence is harmful to children. Study after scientific study, beginning with the Surgeon General's report in the early 1970's, has established this. Certainly, there is a hard consensus in our society that something must be done. What this bill makes clear is that the manufacturers and producers of these consumer products should have a legal responsibility to provide plain-english so that parents can make truly informed decisions about what their children consume. 
   This is not a rating system. It is a labeling system. it is not censorship. We are not talking about limiting free speech. Rather, we are talking about providing content labels on highly sophisticated, highly targeted, and highly promoted consumer products. This is common sense.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Today the Senate will immediately begin 2 hours of debate on S. 96, the Y2K legislation. Following that debate, the Senate will stand in recess until 2:15 p.m. so that the weekly party conferences can meet. When the Senate reconvenes at 2:15, a series of stacked votes will begin. The first votes in order will be on or in relation to the pending amendments to the Y2K bill, followed by a vote on final passage. 
   After the disposition of the Y2K bill, a cloture vote on the Social Security lockbox issue will take place. If cloture is not invoked on the lockbox legislation, a cloture vote on H.R. 1664 regarding the steel, oil, and gas appropriations bill will be in order. 
   Further, if cloture is not invoked on H.R. 1664, it is the intention of the majority leader to resume debate on the energy and water appropriations bill. It is hoped that a vote on final passage to that appropriations bill can be completed by this evening. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, after discussion with the distinguished Democrat manager, Senator HOLLINGS, I would like to modify the unanimous consent agreement to allow Senator HOLLINGS and I 3 minutes each before the vote on final passage is taken. I will withhold that request to clear it on both sides. But I think it is appropriate after we have votes on amendments that Senator HOLLINGS and I be allowed to make brief statements before the final vote on this very important issue. So I will withhold that unanimous consent request, but I intend to make it at the appropriate time. 
   Also for the information of my colleagues, I believe we may not require a vote on the Sessions amendment--I believe we are working that out on both sides--and we may not require a vote on the Gregg amendment as well, although neither have been worked out on both sides. We are attempting to do that. So it is entirely possible that at 2:15 we would be moving to final passage. 
   I note that it is acceptable to the other side, so I ask unanimous consent to modify the unanimous consent request, that Senator HOLLINGS be allowed 4 minutes and I be allowed 4 minutes prior to the vote on final passage of the pending Y2K legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I believe it is in the unanimous consent agreement that there be 2 hours equally divided; is that correct? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield myself whatever time I may consume. 
   Mr. President, we are about to culminate the work of many months: investigation, drafting, negotiation, and compromise. The vote we take today  will set the tone for the Senate in the new millennium. The Senate will either rise to the challenge that the Y2K problem poses and provide a proactive solution, or it will allow traditional political loyalties to leave us in reactive mode after a problem exists. I am optimistic that most of my colleagues recognize the importance of providing a balanced approach to avoiding a Y2K litigation quagmire, to preserving the nation's economy and providing support to the creativity and ingenuity that makes this country the world's leader in technology. 
   I want to remind my colleagues that many compromises have been made in this bill since it passed out of the Commerce Committee. It is certainly not as strong a bill as that passed by the House. These compromises have been made in order to get a bill that can have bipartisan approval and can be signed into law. We cannot play politics with this important issue--we must ensure that this legislation becomes law. On the other hand, I have stated clearly that I will not be party to passing a mere facade. Unless we really accomplish something, we cannot take credit for doing so. Even with all of the compromises we have made to get the legislation to this point, I firmly believe that the legislation will be effective. 
   Before we vote, I want to walk through the provisions of the legislation and correct some misconceptions as to how this bill would operate. With all of the rhetoric of the past several days, I think there has been some concern about the operation of the legislation, which I want to allay. 
   First, it is critical to remember that this legislation addresses Y2K failures which may be encountered by every industry, business, and consumer in the country. This legislation is not designed to protect the high tech industry or provide it immunity. The intent of the legislation is to provide a balance and orderly system for the resolution of Y2K failures in a manner that is fair, ensures that real problems experienced by consumers and businesses alike are addressed quickly, without litigation whenever possible, and that the judicial system is not 
   overrun with opportunistic and creative lawsuits. It is not the redress of real problems that this legislation seeks to limit. 
   It is important to keep in mind that this legislation is supported by the broadest array of interests I have ever seen in support of legislation. They represent companies which will be plaintiffs, those who will be defendants, and those who will likely be both. These varied interests have debated among themselves many of the points raised on the floor of the Senate regarding the balance between plaintiffs and defendants. The compromises made since the bill was passed from the Commerce Committee also have refined the balance. What remains today to be voted upon is a good piece of legislation for every segment of the nation's economy. 
   Let me also reiterate that the Y2K date code problem is not simple to correct. Millions of lines of code are involved, many in outdated languages or in applications that have been revised and upgraded more than once or twice. Multiple means of correcting the date codes adds to the challenge, as does the rare occurrence of leap year in the first year of a new century. Uncertainty as to all the affected embedded chips, the interface of the various corrections, and the complexities of solving the date code without affecting other aspects of a date program, all make this a complex problem requiring massive dedication of technical ingenuity to correct. Although the opponents of this legislation would like the country to think the solution is simple and could have and should have been fixed a long time before now, it is not so simple. 
   Businesses in every industry will spend hundreds of billions of dollars to correct the problem. Estimates are that the costs in the United States alone will be between $100 and $200 BILLION--without litigation costs. There will undoubtedly be shifts of costs from one business to another, from one industry to another, from consumer to manufacturer, as the ramifications of the problem are better known. The purpose of this legislation is to provide rules and mechanisms for this process of cost shifting; rather than focusing on blame, to focus on solutions, prevention and remediation of real problems, rather than anticipated or perceived problems. 
   Let me review some of the most important aspects of S. 96: 
   First, I want to emphasize that this legislation does not affect personal injury cases. We have done nothing to alter the 
   current law regarding how personal injury or wrongful death claims would be handled. 
   Second, let me state clearly that this legislation sunsets. It applies only to problems that occur within 3 years. This legislation will not change American law for all time. 
   The notice provisions provide time for the potential plaintiffs and defendants to resolve Y2K problems without litigation. The notice period is 30 days. Only if the defendant responds by fixing the problem is another 60 days provided to allow remediation to be completed. If there is no response, or if the defendant declines to fix the problem, the plaintiff can sue on the 31st day. The emphasis here is on providing notice that there is a problem so that it can be fixed. Most people want their equipment to work--they don't want a lawsuit. This provision ensures that the first order of business is to offer an opportunity to fix the problem. In no way does this provision deny someone's right to sue. Instead, it should speed up resolution of problems. 
   A requirement for pleading material injury ensures that the cases which are litigated are those in which there is real injury. This section will not cause problems for consumers or businesses with actual Y2K-related failures. It will cause a problem for plaintiffs solicited for class actions where no injury has occurred, as in the increasingly famous California case brought by Tom Johnson. 
   To remind my colleagues, that is the case brought against six retailers in California, not to remedy any failure or injury, but to disgorge profits made over the past 5 years from selling unspecified products which may or may not be Y2K compliant. The clear intent of this litigation is a large settlement. That kind of profiteering litigation is the kind of litigation which S. 96 seeks to curb. Our judicial system should not be clogged with possible Y2K failures, nor novel complaints to ensure the payment of lottery-type settlements and attorneys' fees. 
   The economic loss rule further ensures that contract actions will not be ``tortified.'' Why is this important? Historically contract actions have provided as remedy the ``benefit of the bargain,'' but not punitive damages. The ``benefit of the bargain'' may include lost profits or similar compensatory damages to ensure that the plaintiff is made whole. By turning contract actions into tort actions, aggressive attorneys can claim the more lucrative punitive damages which are not compensatory in nature and allow a windfall from which to pay attorneys' fees. 
   However, banning the ``tortification'' of contracts does not leave a consumer without remedies for real problems. Principles of contract law govern many situations where only a verbal contract, not a written contract, exists. Additionally, the legislation does not affect rights under State Uniform Commercial Code and consumer protection laws. 
   Punitive damage awards have been limited for small businesses, but not for large businesses, in recognition that small companies are especially vulnerable to an onslaught of litigation. No caps are applicable, however, if the defendant has intentionally caused injury, since such conduct is egregious and should not be protected. These modest limitations also prevent frivolous lawsuits. This is especially reasonable here where we have eliminated personal injury claims, thus the damages suffered are all economic in nature. 
   We have preserved contracts as written to ensure that preexisting contractual relationships are maintained. The parties will receive the full benefit of their bargain. When the terms of a contract are in conflict with this legislation, the contract prevails. There is no reason for attorneys to say, as some trial lawyers have, that the legislation would alter a businessman's right to sue a vendor who does not perform a contract because of a Y2K failure. He can. But the legislation provides a notice period in which the vendor can, and should, remedy the problem without the time and expense of litigation.  
   A critical provision of the legislation provides that where litigation is necessary, the defendants will pay for their proportionate share of the damage. This is fair. A defendant pays for the damage he caused. It also eliminates the incentive to sue the ``deep pockets'' who may not be primarily responsible for the problem. Exceptions are provided for small plaintiffs who should not be at risk for collecting a damage award, and for situations where a defendant, because of particularly egregious behavior, should bear the burden of collecting from other defendants. 
   Those who oppose the bill have alleged that these provisions will actually deter responsible companies from taking necessary action to prevent Y2K failures. The facts do not support this claim. All one has to do is take a quick look at the year 2000 related Internet links to see that massive efforts are already being made to make information about Y2K problems and solutions available. 
   A recent EDS, Electronic Data Systems, ad highlights its free of charge, on-line data base that lists over 230,000 products from more than 5,000 vendors, with links to the vendors, instructions for making products Y2K compliant, and 
   links to other related sites. The ad claims that the site receives 56,000 hits a day. 
   Both the EDS site and other sites provide step-by-step checklists and resource information for solutions. Why is this information being made available? Because the United States is the world's leader in technology. One of the reasons for the high-tech industry's success is that it has responded well to the marketplace. Preventing Y2K problems, letting other businesses and industries know about the problem and how to solve it, make good business sense. 
   If so much work is going into solving the Y2K problem then why do we need this legislation? 
   As I have stated before, the cost of solving the Y2K problem is staggering. Experts have estimated that the businesses in the United States alone will spend $50 billion in fixing affected computers, products and systems. But what experts have also concluded is that the real problems and costs associated with Y2K may not be the January 1 failures, but the lawsuits filed to create problems where none exist. An article in USA Today on April 28 by Kevin Maney sums it up:  
   ......Experts have increasingly been saying the Y2K problem won't be so bad, at least relative to the catastrophe once predicted. Companies and governments have worked hard to fix the bug. Y2K-related breakdowns expected by now have been mild to nonexistent. For the lawyers, this could be like training for the Olympics, then having the games called off. 
   ......The concern, though, is that this species of Y2K lawyer has proliferated, and now it's got to eat something. If there aren't enough legitimate cases to go around, they may dig their teeth into anything........In other words, lawyers might make sure Y2K is really bad, even if it's not.  
   The sad truth is that litigation has become an industry. While many fine attorneys represent their clients ethically and in a scrupulous manner, litigation has become big business for a segment of the trial bar. 
   A panel of experts predicted at an American Bar Association convention last August that the legal costs associated with Y2K will exceed that of asbestos, breast implants and tobacco and Superfund combined. A reported 500 law firms across the country have put together Y2K litigation teams. 
   As we have already seen in the Tom Johnson case in California, where no real injury or damage exists, novel theories are pursued to divert attention from prevention and remediation to defending litigation. Time and resources that could be spent on improving technology are diverted to litigation and settlement costs and attorneys' fees. 
   During a hearing on this legislation in the Commerce Committee testimony was presented from two small businessmen who were concerned, legitimately, about problems they had faced with Y2K failures, or anticipated failures. The esteemed Ranking Member of the Committee has often mentioned their testimony on the floor. Both expressed concern that they would be prevented by this legislation from bringing suit, or from being compensated for their damages. In both instances, not only would this legislation not elimate their right to sue, it might help prevent the need to sue. The notice provisions and remediation period would assure prompt attention and resolution to their complaints. 
   We cannot lose sight of the bigger picture in terms of cost of litigation. The costs of both bringing and defending lawsuits are passed on by the businesses and industries into higher prices and cutbacks in jobs or new orders. The impact on our economy of an avalanche of frivolous lawsuits will be felt by all of us. If we do not curtail litigation costs, we will all pay a price in higher prices for computer and software goods, higher prices for every other retail good with embedded chips, higher prices for insurance, and slower, more expensive increases in technological advances. Money that is spent on litigation is money that is not spent on creating new jobs, providing better incomes, retaining our nation's competitive edge. 
   Mr. President, in closing, let me urge my colleagues to support this legislation. It is bipartisan, and again I want to thank Senators WYDEN and DODD for all they have done to make it so. It is reasonable and practical. It presents a good balance between the interests of plaintiffs and defendants and will prevent needless and costly litigation. It will assist in preserving the best economy our country has ever enjoyed. I will encourage the continued prosperity and leadership of our nations' technology industries as we enter the new millennium. It will prevent our nation's courts from being clogged for years with litigation that offers no one prosperity except for the lawyers. The emphasis in approaching the Y2K problem must be on prevention, remediation and prompt resolution of Y2K problems. This legislation meets those goals. 
   The coalition of support for this bill is compelling. This legislation is important not only to big business and high tech, but to small businesses, retailers, wholesalers, insurance, consultants--virtually every segment of the business community. 
   Time is of the essence. For this legislation to provide the direction and impetus desired to assure prevention and remediation of Y2K problems, it must be passed now. We have spent several months getting to this point. Let me be clear. This legislation will make a difference. If we don't pass it, we will be failing to provide leadership for our country. I fear that a year from now we will again turn to this issue, but only after an avalanche of lawsuits has stymied the economy. Support this legislation and be part of the Y2K solution. 
   I again thank Senators DODD and WYDEN and many others for all of their efforts. I also want to congratulate Senator HOLLINGS, my friend from South Carolina, for an impassioned and very compelling argument in opposition to this legislation. I have always enjoyed debating him on a variety of issues, and I know no one who is better informed. 
   I reserve the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. HOLLINGS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Utah, followed by 10 minutes to the Senator from Connecticut, if that is agreeable to the distinguished Senator from South Carolina. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Does the Senator from North Carolina want to use his time? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that prior to the cloture vote on the motion to proceed to H.R. 1664 there be 10 minutes of debate equally divided between Senators NICKLES and BYRD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the agreement regarding H.R. 1664 be amended to add 5 minutes for Senator DOMENICI. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield 8 minutes to the Senator from Alabama, Senator SESSIONS. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I think we have had a very excellent debate. I yield the remainder of my time. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, it is my understanding that there is a Sessions amendment at the desk, No. 623, and I ask for its immediate consideration. 
   It is also my understanding, with the agreement of the Senator from South Carolina, that the amendment is acceptable to both sides. Therefore, I believe there is no further debate on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. The next item of business is the amendment that was offered by Senator GREGG. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the amendment is very well intentioned. I believe we more appropriately sought to deal with this matter when we adopted the Inhofe amendment. I come to the conclusion that the Gregg amendment could possibly have an adverse affect on the bill and lead to more litigation, when certain individuals use this legislation as an excuse to avoid legitimate regulation. 
   I also believe that the adoption of this amendment might further increase the risk of veto of the bill. I want to assure the Senator from New Hampshire that we will deal with this matter in a thoughtful manner in conference, but I am very concerned about the impact of this amendment. 
   I believe that under the previous order, unless the Senator from New Hampshire requests unanimous consent to speak on the amendment, we should move forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the remaining votes in this series be limited to 10 minutes in length. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will take 2 of my minutes, and the Senator from Oregon will take the remaining 2 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Under a previous unanimous consent agreement, I requested 4 minutes on each side. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, let's be clear about the importance of the bill and what is at stake. The bill is supported by virtually every segment of our economy. It is important not only to the high-tech industry or big business but carries strong support from small business, retailers and wholesalers, and the insurance industry. 
   On one side of the issue we have the American economy, arguably the strongest our Nation has ever enjoyed. It is driven in large measure by the technological leadership our companies have and are providing to the rest of the world, the resulting revolution in productivity for other industries. On the other side, we have those who, for whatever reason, desire encouraging disputes rather than solving problems. 
   The Y2K situation presents an unparalleled opportunity to tie up the country's judicial system and the economy's resources in litigation, which only profits the legal profession. Opportunistic litigation costs the Nation's economy time and resources which then cannot be spent on value-added productivity. 
   This is a very important piece of legislation. It is important to the future of the economy. It is important to the future development of this technology, and it is of great importance to the future of average American citizens. 
   I yield back the balance of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as we have learned repeatedly over the last three months, few things seem to go as planned in the Balkans. In fact, I think the warning ``expect the unexpected'' is quickly becoming the first rule of statecraft in the post-cold-war world. 
   The provocative and disturbing occupation of the airport in Pristina by 200 Russian paratroopers has surely complicated our peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. Even more importantly, it exemplifies the huge challenge confronting us as we seek to build a relationship with a former superpower adversary that works to out mutual benefit and that of the world's. 
   I do not know if this action is evidence of a growing breach between Russia's political and military leadership or if Russia's political leaders sanctioned it. I don't pretend to be a scholar of Russian politics. I do know, however, that Russia's continued refusal to accept NATO's command over the entire peacekeeping effort in Kosovo, whether the Russian government or some independent-minded Russian generals issue that refusal, challenges the viability of the fragile peace we are committing 50,000 NATO troops to enforce. It is a challenge we must overcome immediately, with steady nerve and firm resolve. 
   Even though, NATO obviously has the power and authority to work its will in Pristina, overcoming the challenge should not require us to forcibly evict the Russians from the airport. But neither does it require us to pretend that the challenge is so insignificant that it doesn't merit our notice. It is a problem, although not yet a disaster, and it requires our swift and sure-footed response to resolve it as quickly as possible. 
   We must take the necessary steps to prevent the reinforcement of those troops. But, more importantly, we must make abundantly clear to Moscow that we consider this action to be evidence that Russia cannot yet be trusted as good faith partners in preserving European stability. It even casts doubt on their efforts to convince Mr. Milosevic to accept NATO's terms for a settlement, raising the suspicion that there were hidden commitments to secure a de facto partition of Kosovo. 
   Until those suspicions can be allayed--which would require, of course, Russian troops to accede to NATO's authority at the airport--progress in constructing a new and mutually beneficial relationship between the United States and its allies and Russia will suffer. The coming G-7 meeting in Germany, which was intended to consider efforts to assist the collapsed Russian economy, must now result in a clear, unequivocal statement that no such assistance will be forthcoming while Russian leaders either tolerate or are unable to stop attempts by their forces to undermine our efforts in Kosovo. 
   Moreover, we should exact some specific and public assurance from the putative leader of Russia, Boris Yeltsin--since the word of his ministers is no longer credible--that Russia will play either a constructive role or no further role in Kosovo. A constructive role will entail, of course, Russia's acquiescence in the unified NATO command of the entire operation. 
   There must be no Russian sector in Kosovo even if we select some other euphemism to describe it because most Kosovars believe, quite understandably, it is a pseudonym for the partition of Kosovo. Few if any ethnic Albanians will return unarmed to an area where their security is the responsibility of troops whose loyalties were demonstratively pledged to the Serb persecutors. 
   The United States recognizes the importance of achieving stable, mutually beneficial relations with Russia. We expect Russia to recognize that its best interests lie in friendship with NATO and not in old hostilities that stretch back to the cold war and beyond. The Russian military should be capable of recognizing that its interests are best served by better relations as well. An army that cannot adequately feed and fuel itself, or that is unable to offer a minimum standard of life to its soldiers should see the error in nursing old enmities at the expense of progress toward the common goal of a more secure world. 
   The United States expects nothing more of Russia than that it acts in its own best interests, for its best interests are compatible with the cause for peace and justice in Kosovo, and everywhere else for that matter. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions be authorized to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 15, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to conduct a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee in Hart 216 beginning at 9:35 a.m., on June 15. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Forest and Public Land Management of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, June 15, for purposes of conducting a hearing which is scheduled to begin at 2:30 p.m. The purpose of this oversight hearing is to receive testimony on issues related to vacating the Record of Decision and denial of a plan of operations for the Crown Jewel Mine in Okanogan County, WA. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today the Senate will immediately resume consideration of the Y2K legislation with the intention of completing action on that bill this afternoon. 
   Following the debate of S. 96, the Senate may begin consideration of the State Department authorization bill, any appropriations bills available for action, or any other legislative or executive items on the calendar. Therefore, Senators can expect votes throughout today's session of the Senate. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased with the progress we have made thus far on this bill. We have limited the number of remaining amendments, and I am hopeful we will be able to reach agreement as to time agreements on the remaining amendments so we can conclude consideration of this important legislation. 
   I am also pleased we have turned back two attempts to emasculate the legislation. Those critical votes encouraged me that the Senate will be able to pass meaningful and effective legislation regarding the top priority issue for the broadest possible cross-section of the Nation's economy. 
   The ongoing fight between the welfare of the Nation's economy and the trial lawyers is going to reach additional crucial votes on amendments today and in final passage. Over the past few weeks, I have waited to hear rational, logical reasons for defeating this legislation or for gutting it with more compromises. I have heard none. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of Senator MURKOWSKI, I send a modification to amendment No. 612. 
   It is my understanding this amendment is acceptable to both sides. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I move to reconsider the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I can't help but note the Senator from South Carolina mentioned Mr. Gates has 2,000 employees for millionaires. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. There are 22,000 millionaires. I know our respective staffs feel like millionaires for having had the opportunity of working here in the Senate with us. I know I speak for all of our staffs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 91, S. 886, the State Department reauthorization bill, at a time determined by the two leaders, and that the bill be considered under the following limitations: that the only first-degree amendments in order be the following, and that they be subject to relevant second-degree amendments, with any debate time on amendments controlled in the usual form, provided that time for debate on any second-degree amendment would be limited to that accorded the amendment to which it is offered; that upon disposition of all amendments, the bill be read the third time, and the Senate proceed to vote on passage of the bill, as amended, if amended, with no intervening action. 
   I submit the list of amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator EDWARDS be recognized to offer two amendments as provided in the previous consent, and time on both amendments be limited to 1 hour total, to be equally divided in the usual form, and no amendments be in order to the Edwards amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, before yielding, we would expect votes on the  two Edwards amendments probably within an hour or less. That is our desire, and we will clear that with the leaders on both sides. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. EDWARDS addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank Senator HATCH for his very important and persuasive input in this debate. I appreciate it very much. 
   I did want to save a few minutes for Senator SESSIONS to make his remarks. I yield to the Senator from Alabama. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If I could inquire of my colleague from Alaska how his original amendment would have applied if, for example, a company bought a Y2K-compliant computer server in November 1999, and that server has to interact with other software and networked hardware manufactured by other companies that may or may not be Y2K compliant. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank my colleague for his clarification and will be pleased to address his concerns in conference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990610</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to amend the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 to ensure stricter enforcement of timelines and fairness in Indian adoption proceedings. The primary intent of this legislation is to make the process that applies to voluntary Indian child custody and adoption proceedings more consistent, predictable, and certain. The provisions of this legislation would further advance the best interests of Indian children without eroding tribal sovereignty and the fundamental principles of Federal-Indian law. 
   I thank the principal cosponsors, Senators CAMPBELL and DOMENICI, for their continued support of this much-needed legislation. Let me also point out that this bill is identical to legislation which passed the Senate by unanimous consent in 1996. It is the result of nearly two years of discussion and debate among representatives of the adoption community, Indian tribal governments, and the Congress that aimed to address some of the problems with the implementation of ICWA since its enactment in 1978. 
   Mr. President, ICWA was originally enacted to provide for procedural and substantive protection for Indian children and families and to recognize and formalize a substantial role for Indian tribes in cases involving involuntary and voluntary child custody proceedings, whether on or off the Indian reservation. It was also supposed to reduce uncertainties about which court had jurisdiction over an Indian child and who had what authority to influence child placement decisions. Although implementation of ICWA has been less than perfect, in the vast majority of cases ICWA has effectively provided the necessary protections. It has encouraged State and private adoption agencies and State courts to make extra efforts before removing Indian children from their homes and communities. It has required recognition by  everyone involved that an Indian child has a vital, long-term interest in keeping a connection with his or her Indian tribe. 
   Nonetheless, particularly in the voluntary adoption context, there have been occasional, high-profile cases which have resulted in lengthy, protracted litigation causing great anguish for the children, their adoptive families, their birth families, and their Indian tribes. This bill takes a measured and limited approach, crafted by representatives of tribal governments and the adoption community, to address these problems. 
   This legislation would achieve greater certainty and speed in the adoption process for Indian children by providing new guarantees of early and effective notice in all cases involving Indian children. The bill also establishes new, strict time restrictions on both the right of Indian tribes and birth families to intervene and the right of Indian birth parents to revoke their consent to an adoptive placement. Finally, the bill includes a provision which would encourage early identification of the relatively few cases involving controversy and promote the settlement of cases by making visitation agreements enforceable. 
   Mr. President, nothing is more sacred and more important to our future than our children. The issues surrounding Indian child welfare stir deep emotions. I am thankful that, in formulating the compromise that led to the introduction of this bill, the representatives of both the adoption community and tribal governments were able to put aside their individual desires and focus on the best interests of Indian children. 
   This bill represents an appropriate and fair-minded compromise proposal which would enhance the best interests of Indian children by guaranteeing speed, certainty, and stability in the adoption process. At the same time, the provisions of this bill preserve fundamental principles of Federal-Tribal law by recognizing the appropriate role of tribal governments in the lives of Indian children. 
   Mr. President, I believe these amendments would have been enacted several years ago had we been better able to dispel several misconceptions about the bill's purpose. I want to directly address one of these misplaced concerns--that the adoptive placement preferences in the underlying law, the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, would somehow lead an expectant mother seeking privacy to prefer abortion over adoption. 
   I want to be very clear when I say that it is my judgment, concurred in by Indian tribes, adoption advocates and many others involved with implementing the Indian Child Welfare Act, that this bill has everything to do with promoting adoption opportunities for Indian children and nothing to do with promoting abortion. It is a terrible injustice that such a misunderstanding has clouded the efforts of so many who wish to simply improve the chances for Indian children to enjoy a stable family life. 
   Over the years, I have had a consistently pro-life record and have actively worked with many pro-life groups to try to reduce and eliminate abortions at every possible opportunity. I firmly believe that this bill would make adoption, rather than abortion, a more compelling choice for an expectant birth mother. What could be more pro-life and pro-family than to change the law in ways which both Indian tribes and non-Indian adoptive families have asked to improve the adoption process? I strongly believe this bill, and the amendments it makes to the ICWA law, will work to the advantage of Indian children and adoptive families. It will encourage adoptions and discourage choices which lead to the tragedy of abortion. 
   A recent editorial by George F. Will in the Washington Post (``For Right-to-Life Realists'') underscores the importance of promoting legislative efforts, such as this bill, as good policy for protecting children and promoting families. He wrote:  
   Temperate people on both sides of the abortion divide can support a requirement for parental notification, less as abortion policy than as sound family policy. 
   ..... Republicans will be the party of adoption, removing all laws and other impediments, sparing no expense, to achieving a goal more noble even than landing on the moon--adoptive parents for every unwanted unborn baby.  
   Mr. President, this bill has been thoroughly analyzed and debated in the Senate, as well as among the adoption community and Indian tribal governments. I believe it is time for the Congress to act in the best interests of Indian children by enacting these amendments to the voluntary adoption procedures in the 1978 ICWA law. I urge my colleagues to once again pass these amendments and invite the House to do the same this year. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from Louisiana be allowed as much additional time as he needs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to start out by offering a substitute amendment to S. 96, the Y2K Act. This substitute amendment is truly a bipartisan effort. It represents spirited discussion, hard fought compromise, and agreement with a number of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, led by Senators DODD, WYDEN, HATCH, FEINSTEIN, BENNETT, LIEBERMAN, GORTON, LOTT, ABRAHAM, SANTORUM, and SMITH of Oregon. 
   The substitute is at the desk, and I ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator WYDEN for being one of the true leaders on this bill. Senator WYDEN said at our committee markup that he wanted to get to ``yes.'' He has worked tirelessly with me and others to get there. Having not only the necessary majority vote but the 60 votes necessary to move forward is directly related to his efforts. 
   I also thank Senator DODD of Connecticut. He has offered an important perspective and has provided excellent suggestions and comments which I think make this substitute we offer today a better piece of legislation. 
   I am grateful to my colleagues, especially the senior Senator from Connecticut, for their unflinching dedication to dialogue, to working through our differences and remaining focused on the common goal of enacting this critical piece of legislation. Without the leadership of Senators DODD and WYDEN, this bipartisan effort would not have been possible. 
   Before I talk about the legislation and the language of the substitute itself, I would like to note that there was a unanimous consent agreement that 12 amendments would be in order on both sides. We are now in the process of working with the sponsors of those amendments, some of which we can agree to, some of which may require votes. But I hope my colleagues will also come over here ready to offer those amendments so that in a very short period of time we can begin to dispense with them. 
   We all know the very heavy schedule of legislation that lies before us between now and the next recess on the Fourth of July. So I am hopeful we can take up and dispense with these amendments in a timely fashion. 
   The first effort, obviously, will be to get time agreements 
   on those amendments that we are unable to get agreement on, although I believe, from a first look at many of these amendments, we will be able to work out language so that we can accept a number of them. In fact, I think some of them will improve the legislation. 
   I want to walk through the details of this substitute amendment and the background and history of this bill. 
   First, let me summarize what this substitute contains. 
   Specifically, the substitute amendment: 
   Provides time for plaintiffs and defendants to resolve Y2K problems without litigation. 
   It reiterates the plaintiff's duty to mitigate damages and highlights the defendant's opportunity to assist plaintiffs in doing that by providing information and resources. 
   It provides for proportional liability in most cases, with exceptions for fraudulent or intentional conduct or where the plaintiff has limited assets. 
   It protects governmental entities, including municipalities, school, fire, water, and sanitation districts, from punitive damages. 
   It eliminates punitive damage limits for egregious conduct while providing small businesses some protection against runaway punitive damage awards.  
   And it provides protection for those not directly involved in a Y2K failure. 
   The substitute, as the original bill, does not--I emphasize, does not--cover personal injury and wrongful death cases. 
   The specific changes the substitute makes from the version of the bill which Senator WYDEN and I offered in April are those proposed by Senator DODD. It eliminates the director and officer liability caps, it eliminates the punitive damages caps for businesses with more than 50 employees, it provides that State evidentiary standards will be used in specific situations, and it preserves the protections provided in the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act. 
   Let me be quite blunt. These revisions represent significant compromise. They move this bill a considerable distance from the Y2K bill passed by the House. Even with these compromises, I believe the bill will accomplish the goals for the legislation--to encourage remediation and prevention of Y2K problems and eliminate frivolous and opportunistic litigation which can only serve to damage our economy. However, I do not believe any additional compromises are necessary or warranted. 
   I want to reemphasize that point. There have been additional efforts made to have us accept or work on additional changes to the bill. We run the risk right now of compromising to the degree where it makes these protections, if not meaningless, so reduced that we are not able to achieve the goal we seek. So I do not intend--nor do, I believe, the majority of my colleagues, including those on the other side of the aisle--to continue to work behind the scenes towards a compromise. If there is a change that Members believe needs to be made to this legislation, then let's go through the amending process, let's have a time limit on debate, and vigorously debate and educate our colleagues, and then have votes. 
   We have, thanks to Senator WYDEN, moved a significant way, and also thanks to Senator DODD; we have done that. We cannot move from our position further. Yet we do obviously have 12 
   amendments in order on that side, 12 amendments on this side, which is ample opportunity for debate and discussion about this issue and further amending, obviously, with majority rule. 
   So I point out again, these are significant compromises that have already been made, some of them to the dissatisfaction of some of our constituents. It has not made everybody happy. But having been around here now for some years, it is my firm belief that we have to make compromises, because that is the essence of legislation. But we have made enough compromises that we can no longer make any further changes without compromising the fundamental principles behind this legislation. 
   Let me make one other point. Time is of the essence here. We cannot dally. We cannot wait until the end of the year when Y2K is upon us. 
   Already lawsuits have been filed, some of them pretty interesting, and emphasize, at least to my mind, the necessity of this legislation. 
   But we need to move. I fully intend, once we pass this legislation, to move to conference as quickly as possible. There are differences between the House-passed legislation and this legislation. I am absolutely convinced we will be able to reach agreement in conference and come back here before the recess with a final conference report and bill to be approved by both Houses. 
   I am committed to passing legislation which is effective. I am not interested in passing a meaningless facade. We will do the public a great disservice to claim victory in passing legislation which leaves loopholes for spurious litigation. If we aren't going to legitimately fix the problem, then we must be forthright with the public and tell them it could not be done. I think that would be a disastrous result, but it would be more honest than to pretend to provide a solution and not. 
   This bill deserves the support of every Member of the Senate. It is fair, practical, and legally justifiable. It is important not only to the high-tech industry or only to big businesses but carries the strong support of small businesses, retailers, and wholesalers. 
   The coalition of support for this bill is compelling. Yesterday a press conference was held to reiterate the support of the overwhelming majority of the Nation's gross national product: the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; the National Association of Manufacturers; the National Retail Federation; virtually every high-tech industrial association, including the ITAA, the Business Software Alliance, and others who participated, to 
   emphasize the need for the bill and their support for the compromises which have been made. 
   Many of those supporting this legislation will find themselves as both plaintiffs and defendants. They have weighed the benefits and drawbacks of the provisions of this legislation and have overwhelmingly concluded that their chief priority is to prevent and fix Y2K problems and make our technology work, not to divert their resources into time-consuming and costly litigation. 
   The estimated cost of litigation associated with fixing the Y2K problem is really quite enormous. In the view of some, it is as high as $1 trillion. I do not know if it is that high, but already major corporations in America have spent millions and millions, in some cases tens of millions, of dollars in fixing existing problems. If we throw into the mix the litigation we have already seen the beginnings of, it could really have an effect, not only on the ability of our businesses to do business, not only on the ability of our high-tech corporations to continue investing in research and development and improvements in technology, but it really would have a significant effect on our overall economy. You take that much money out of our economy in the form of litigation, you are going to feel the economic impacts of it. 
   Let me remind my colleagues how this legislation came to be, its genesis and rationale. The origin, as we all know, of the Y2K problem was in the 1950s and 1960s, when computer memory was oppressively expensive. According to the February 24, 1999, report of the Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem, headed by Senators BENNETT and DODD, in the IBM 7094 of the early 1960s, core memory cost around $1 per byte. By comparison, today's semiconductor memory costs around $1 per million bytes. Thus, there was a strong incentive to minimize the storage required for a program and data. 
   A two-digit data code became the industry standard in order to economize on storage space. It was presumed that sometime during the 40 or 50 years before the end of the millennium, the coding would be changed as computer memory became more accessible. Unfortunately, although memory costs fell dramatically, the interface requirements of old software with new discouraged and slowed the changeover process. The computer equipment and software that was expected to become obsolete survived many layers and programming updates. The result is that the two-digit programs are not designed to recognize dates beyond 1999 and may not be able to process data-related operations beyond December 31 of this year. 
   Although some who oppose this litigation charge that the solutions are simple and should have been completed long ago, the reality is not that simple. First, there are over 500 programming languages in use today. A universally compatible Y2K solution would have to be compatible with most or many of these languages. Embedded processors in embedded chips have to be found and replaced. There are also several ways to reprogram causing additional interfacing issues. 
   Technical approaches to solving the problem include reprogramming all two-digit date codes with a four-digit date code; windowing the date codes to make programs think that the two-digit codes are applicable to the year 2000 and beyond; and encapsulation which, like the windowing method, tricks the computer program into thinking that the two-digit date code is applicable beyond 1999. Unless the same approach is taken in 
   all computers, additional programming is required to allow interface of four-digit codes with two-digit codes which have been windowed or encapsulated. 
   Let me read from a recent publication of the National Legal Center for the Public Interest, the Year 2000 Challenge, Legal Problems and Solutions, which summarizes why the year 2000 problem is so difficult to solve.  
   I quote from the article from the National Legal Center for the Public Interest:  
   One of the most insidious characteristics of the Year 2000 problem is that the difficulty of solving it in any particular organization often is so underestimated. Since both the nature of the problem and the actions needed to fix it are relatively easy to explain, people who are not familiar with IT projects in general and the peculiar difficulties of Year 2000 projects in particular tend to think of Year 2000 projects as less difficult and risky than they really are. 
   The unfortunate fact is that there is no ``silver bullet'' solution to the Year 2000 problem in any organization, and the risks and difficulties in any Year 2000 project of even moderate size and complexity can be enormous. None of the remediation techniques described above is without disadvantage, and for many IT users the time and resources required to accomplish Year 2000 remediation far exceed what is available. Most major remediation programs involve finding and correcting date fields in millions of lines of poorly documented or undocumented code. There is no single foolproof method of finding date fields, no assurance that all date fields will be found, corrected, or corrected accurately, and no assurance that corrections will not produce unintended and undesirable consequences elsewhere in the program. In many cases it will be necessary to rely on information or assurances from third-party vendors regarding the Year 2000 compliance of their products, even though experience teaches that many such representations are inaccurate or misleading. Comprehensive end-to-end system testing of remediated systems in a simulated Year 2000 ``production'' environment is often impractical or impossible, and less intensive testing may fail to detect uncorrected problems. And even when an IT user has succeeded in making its own system Year 2000 ready, Year 2000 date handling programs of external programs or systems (such as the systems of customers or suppliers) can often have a devastating effect on internal operations.  
   In addition to the technical problems with solving the problems, we must consider the cost dimension of the Y2K problems. From the ITAA, Information Technology Association of America, Year 2000 website, I have the following information:  
   At $450 to $600 per affected computer program, the Gartner Group has estimated that a medium-sized company will spend between $3.6-$4.2 million to convert its software. The cost-per-line-of-code has been estimated between $1.00-$1.50. Viasoft estimates cost-per-impacted-programs between $572-$1,204. 
   Estimates place correcting the problem for businesses and the public sector in the United States alone between $100-$200 billion. If you accept the premise that the total information technology services marketplace in America approaches $150 billion annually; that means Year 2000 Software Conversion could represent anywhere from 33%-50% of dollars spent for information systems in one year. Some ITAA Year 2000 Task Group members report estimates placing the worldwide total to correct the problem between $300 to $600 billion.  
   In addition, the Senate Year 2000 Committee in its report cites figures for several specific companies, as well as total costs which include estimated litigation costs.  
   There is no generally agreed upon answer to this question. The Gartner Group's estimate of $600 billion worldwide is a frequently cited number. Another number from a reputable source is that of Capers Jones, Software Productivity Research, Inc. of Burlington, MA. Jones' worldwide estimate is over $1.6 trillion.\5\ Part of the difference is that Jones' estimate includes over $300 billion for litigation and damages but Gartner's does not. A sense of the scale of the cost can be gained from looking at the Y2K costs of six multinational financial services institutions; Citicorp, General Motors, Bank America, Credit Suisse Group, Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan. These six institutions have collectively estimated their Y2K costs to be over $2.4 billion.  
   Mr. President, the point here is that this is a complex technical problem with no easy, cheap solution. Although the opponents of this legislation would have us believe that Y2K failures can only result from negligence or dereliction on the part of the technology industry, and all those who use computer hardware and software, in truth, massive efforts are underway, and have been for some time, to prevent the Y2K problem from occurring. Even with the nearly incomprehensible amounts of money being devoted to reprogramming date codes in virtually every business and industry in our country, there are going to be failures. Well-intentioned companies, acting in good faith, are nevertheless going to encounter problems in their systems, or in the interface of their systems with other systems, or as a result of some other company's system. 
   But what experts are also concluding is that the real problems and costs associated with Y2K may not be the January 1 failures, but the lawsuits filed to create problems where none exist. An article in USA Today on April 28 by Kevin Maney sums it up:  
   Experts have increasingly been saying that the Y2K problem won't be so bad, at least relative to the catastrophe once predicted. Companies and governments have worked hard to fix the bug. Y2K-related breakdowns expected by now have been low to nonexistent. For the lawyers, this could be like training for the Olympics, then having the games called off. 
   The concern, though, is that this species of Y2K lawyer has proliferated, and now it's got to eat something. If there aren't enough legitimate cases to go around, they may dig their teeth into anything....... In other words, lawyers might make sure Y2K is really bad, even if it's not.  
   Mr. President, the sad truth in our country today is that litigation has become an industry. While there are many fine, scrupulous attorneys representing their clients in ethical fashion, there are also many opportunistic lawyers looking for new ``inventories'' of cases. The Y2K problems provide these attorneys with a lottery jackpot. 
   Let me read from an article published in March of this year, by the Public Policy Institute of the Democratic Leadership Council, written by Robert D. Atkinson and Joseph M. Ward:  
   As the millennium nears, the Year 2000 (Y2K) computer problem poses a critical challenge to our economy. Tremendous investments are being made of fix Y2K problems, with U.S. companies expected to spend more than $50 billion. However, these efforts could be hampered by a barrage of potential litigation, as fear of liability may keep some businesses from effectively engaging in Y2K remediation efforts. Trail attorneys across the country are actually preparing for the potential windfall. For those who doubt the emergences of such a litigation leviathan, one only needs to listen to what is coming out of certain quarters of the legal community. At the American Bar Association annual convention in Toronto last August, a panel of experts predicted that the legal costs associated with Y2K will exceed that of asbestos, breast implants, tobacco, and Superfund litigation combined.\1\ That is more than three times the total annual estimated cost of all civil litigation in the United States.\2\ Seminars on how to try Y2K cases are well underway and approximately 500 law firms across the country have put together Y2K litigation teams to capitalize on the event.\3\ Also, several law suits have already been filed, making trail attorneys confident that a large number of businesses, big and small, will end up in court as both a plaintiff and defendant. Such overwhelming litigation would reduce investment and slow income growth for American workers. Indeed, innovation and economic growth would be stifled by the rapacity of strident litigators.  
   I want to point out that is from the Public Policy Institute of the Democratic Leadership Council. 
   Mr. President, already at least 65 lawsuits--some report as many as 80--have been filed, and we are still 6 months away from January 1. Most of these lawsuits involve potential problems that have not even occurred yet. Our nation's legal system is not designed to handle the tidal wave of litigation which will undoubtedly occur if we do not act to prevent it. We must reserve the courts for the cases with real harm, real factual support, and which cannot be otherwise resolved through mediation and resolution. 
   Probably the classic example of opportunistic litigation is a class action suit filed in California by Tom Johnson against six major retailers. Tom Johnson, acting as a ``private attorney general'' under California consumer protection laws, has brought an action against a group of retailers, including Circuit City, Office Depot, Office Max, CompUSA, Staples, Fryes, and the good guys, inc. for failing to warn consumers about products that are not Y2K compliant. 
   He has not alleged any injury or economic damage to himself, but, pursuant to state statute, has requested relief in the amount of all of the defendants' profits from 1995 to date from selling these products, and restitution to ``all members of the California general public.'' Although he claims that ``numerous'' products are involved, he has not specified which products are covered by his allegations, but has generally named products by Toshiba, IBM, Compaq, Intuit, Hewlett Packard, and Microsoft. 
   It is crystal clear that the real reason for this lawsuit is not to fix a problem that Mr. Johnson has with any of his computer hardware or software, but to see whether he can convince the  companies involved that it's cheaper to buy him off in a settlement than to litigate--even if the case is eventually dismissed or decided in their favor. 
   And, even more interesting, is the history of how this case came to be filed. The Wall Street Journal carried a story on Friday, May 14, 1999 in its Politics and Policy column by Robert S. Grernberger. 
   It says:  
   Michael Verna, a California lawyer, is warning a group of technicians about the dangers ahead if they don't get the gliches out of their companies' computers by the end of the year. 
   Here in Seattle, Mr. Verna is explaining how writing internal memos or careless e-mail could hurt a firm in a Y2K lawsuit. Loretta Pirozzi of Data Dimensions Inc., a consulting firm, complain that most bosses aren't budgeting enough money to fix the problems. A knowing chuckle sweeps the room. Mr. Verna warns that memos on such budget disputes become smoking guns in court. 
   ``What can we do?'' asks another woman. 
   ``Have lawyers show you how to protect your documents, for one thing,'' he says. ``By the way,'' he adds, ``that isn't a sales pitch.'' 
   But, of course, it is. Bowles & Verna, a 21-member firm in Walnut Creek, Calif., has a Y2K game plan. It starts with semimars that help develop new clients. The millennium itself will usher in the ``failure litigation phase'' of court fights. And in about five years, just when it seems like everyone has sued everyone else, comes the ``insurance-coverage phase,'' when companies go after their insurers to pay some of their Y2K losses. 
   ``You want to be on the leading edge of the tort of the millennium,'' Mr. Verna says. 
   Bowles & Verna's journey to 2000 began almost by chance, in 1997, while Kenneth Jones, then a third-year law student, was playing a computer football game. It is wife, Sandy, was telling him that people were stocking up on canned goods and bottled water for the expected chaos of Y2K. At that moment, Mr. Jones recalls, he had an epiphany. 
   A new area of law, involving future failures due to Y2K bugs, was being born, and Mr. Jones, a law student comfortable with technology, was perfectly positioned for it. He also was headed for a job at Bowles & Verna, where he had been a summer law clerk. ``I decided the firm could be the experts. 
   With Mr. Verna's strong encouragement, the 28-year-old Mr. Jones proded his colleagues, giving some of the firm's techno-challenged lawyers a book, ``Year 2000 Solutions for Dummies.'' Gradually, the firm formed a Y2K team. All it lacked was a client. Then, late last year. Mr. Jones's friend Torn Johnson, a Walnut Creek swimming coach, went shopping for a laptop computer--and Bowles & Verna found its first Y2K lawsuit. 
   But with no apparent injury to Mr. Johnson, the firm needed a legal theory. California's Unfair Business Practices Act came to the rescue. The statute permits citizen lawsuits on behalf of the people of the state to stop unfair or deceptive business practices. And so Mr. Johnson is suing about half a dozen retailers for injunctive relief to require disclosure for Y2K compliance, but not for damages. And, under the state law, Bowles & Verna would collect attorney's fees.  
   This is precisely the type of frivolous and opportunistic lawsuit which would be avoided by S. 96. Rather than have all of these named companies wasting their time and resources preparing a defense for this case, S. 96 would direct the focus to fixing real problems. In this instance, Mr. Johnson does not have an actual problem, but if he did, he would need to articulate what is not working due to a Y2K failure. The company or companies responsible would then have an opportunity to address and fix the specific problem. If the problem isn't fixed, then Mr. Johnson would be free to bring his suit. 
   This case is the tip of the iceberg--if thousands of similar suits are brought after January 1, the judicial system will be overrun--and the nation's economy will be thrown into turmoil. This is a senseless and needless abuse that we can avoid by passing S. 96. 
   Mr. President, let me turn to the substance of the substitute amendment offered today. Without going through every paragraph of the bill, let me highlight the most important provisions. 
   Certainly the centerpiece of the bill are the provisions of Section 7 regarding notice. This section requires plaintiffs to give defendants 30 days notice before commencing a lawsuit. This provides an opportunity for someone who has been harmed by a Y2K failure to make the person responsible aware of the problem and to fix it. If the defendant doesn't agree to fix the problem, then the plaintiff can sue on the 31st day. If the defendant does agree to fix the problem, 60 days are permitted to accomplish the remediation before a lawsuit can be filed. This offers a reasonable time and opportunity for people to work out legitimate problems with sincere solutions, without cost of litigation. It focuses on the fact that most people want things to work--they don't want to sue. 
   A corresponding critical element of this legislation is the requirement for specificity in pleadings found in Section 8. Not written nor intended to cause loopholes for lawyers, the thrust of this requirement is that there must be a real problem in order to sue. Our judicial system should not be clogged with possible Y2K failures, nor novel complaints to ensure the payment of lottery style settlements and attorneys fees. We must reserve our judicial resources for real problems which have caused real injury which can be redressed by the court. 
   The Duty to Mitigate in Section 9 is also important. While it is in some respects merely a statement of current law, it highlights the emphasis to be placed on preventing problems and injury to the maximum extent possible, and articulates the role that prevention information made available by the affected industries can play in limiting injury to product users. 
   The economic loss rule found in Section 12 is also a restatement of law in the majority of states. It is critical, however, because it confirms that damages not available under contract theories of law cannot be obtained through tort theories. This is particularly important here where personal injury claims have been excluded. 
   Punitive damages caps have been retained for small businesses, defined as those with 50 fewer than 50 employees. Punitive damages are permitted under some state laws in certain egregious situations primarily as a deterrent from a repetition of the conduct. 
   Punitive damages are awarded primarily as punishment to a defendant. They are intended to deter a repeat of the offensive conduct. 
   Punitive damages are not awarded to compensate losses/damage suffered by a plaintiff. 
   The Y2K cases are unusual in that the conduct is not likely to occur again, thus there is little deterrent value in awarding punitive damages. 
   Without a deterrent effect, punitive damages serve only as a windfall to plaintiffs and attorneys. 
   Additionally, since we have eliminated personal injuries from coverage of the bill, the only harm caused by defendants will be economic damage, which can be appropriately compensated without the need for punitive awards. 
   Further, excessive punitive damage awards will simply compound the economic impact of Y2K litigation and the costs will be passed along to the public/consumers through higher prices. 
   In this situation, punitive damages truly become a ``lottery'' for the plaintiff, thus they should be limited. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. May I ask the Senator from Colorado to yield to me? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I will tell my friend from Colorado that I believe we are going to accept the amendment. So the yeas and nays will not be necessary. So I request that he retract his request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I don't believe there is any further debate on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Colorado. I think it is an important amendment. I appreciate not only his concern for the entire bill but for the State of Colorado, since this obviously would have an effect on the hard work of the State legislature and the Governor. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I continue to respect the views of the Senator from Massachusetts. He makes some very persuasive arguments. 
   I strongly recommend to the Senator from Massachusetts that he put his objections in the form of an amendment or amendments and we vote. We have been through, I think the Senator from Massachusetts would agree, literally weeks, if not months, of negotiations with the Senator from Massachusetts. At no time have we been able to agree. I strongly recommend that he just propose an amendment, and we have a vote on it. The Senate will be on record. We will be then able to move forward, as is the legislative process. 
   I will make a parliamentary point. I have asked the Democratic side to try to get an agreement within about an hour or so on remaining amendments that will be proposed of the 12. We now have about 6 or 7. I think the same is true on the other side. We want to give everybody ample opportunity to propose their amendments. Then I will also ask that we get those amendments in so we can start negotiating time agreements. I see no reason why we can't finish this bill by tomorrow evening. 
   I urge my colleagues, again, if you have an amendment on either side of the aisle, tell Senator HOLLINGS or me so we can get those 12 nailed down on either side so we can start negotiating. 
   I think it is very important to recognize that there has been amazing solidarity shown on the part of big, medium, and small business on this legislation, including the parts of it that were just addressed by the Senator from Massachusetts. They do not accept his remedy. I strongly admire the knowledge, the information, and the incredible tenacity that 
   Senator KERRY has shown on this issue. 
   The reality is--and every once in awhile we have to face reality, I say to my friend from Massachusetts--we are going no further. However, if we are going no further in the process of negotiation, that does not change in the slightest the fact that the Senator from Massachusetts can propose 1 of these 12 amendments, or 2 or 3 or 4 of them, I think there is room, and we can debate and vote on them. 
   I yield for the Senator from Oregon. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, again, I find the logic of my friend from Massachusetts somewhat tortured. He maintains that these ``two simple things'' will meet the approval of the high-tech community. Yet, it doesn't. So in his mind, of course, clearly it should. But the fact is, it doesn't. 
   So we are in a very interesting kind of hyperbole here that the Senator from Massachusetts keeps saying the high-tech community supports this and this is perfectly acceptable to them. Yet, they don't support it or agree with it--and for good reason--because these ``two simple things'' are directed at the high-tech defendants, not the rest of the business community that will be defendants. When a wholesaler fixes their systems within their company, yet it leases a trucking group to deliver whatever that product is, and then they are subject to joint and several liability, then, of course, it opens the floodgates. 
   The Senator from Massachusetts seems surprised that, or somehow casts doubt about the motivation of business in supporting this legislation. Of course they are supporting it, because they don't want to be subject to a flood of litigation. That is the whole purpose of the legislation. The whole purpose, I tell my friend from Massachusetts, is to stop a flood of litigation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. In a second. The Progressive Policy Institute of the Democratic Leadership Counsel says:  
   Despite the number of lawsuits avoided during a 90-day cure period, or the number of disputes settled through ADR, the cost of Y2K litigation will remain exorbitantly high as long as opportunities remain for people to abuse our legal system. However, there are a number of Y2K-specific reforms that can be enacted to curb that abuse and the subsequent costs. To begin with, responsibly strengthening pleading standards would keep many baseless suits out of the systems. Plaintiffs seeking money awards for damages should be required to state the particular nature and effects of material Y2K defects and how they figured into calculating those damages. In addition, to insure fairness, rejected plaintiffs should be allowed to refile their suits with the required specifics in order to protect legitimate claims that are not initially apparent. Furthermore, legislation should deny awards for damages that could reasonably have been avoided. 
   Class action suits are normally the most expensive and wasteful of product liability lawsuits and often contain enormous numbers of groundless complaints. Legislation should insure that the majority of members in class action suits have truly experienced Y2K-related failures and deserve redress. By reducing the number of invalid claims, waste and fraud could be significantly eliminated from the adjudication of class action suits. 
   The effects of abusive litigation could be further curbed by restricting the award of punitive damages.  
   That is what this legislation does. That is where the Senator's amendment will open a loophole wide enough to drive a truck through. 
   Punitive damages are meant to punish poor behavior and discourage it in the future. However, because this is a one-time event, the only thing deterred by excessive punitive 
   damages in Y2K cases would be remediation efforts by businesses. 
   I say again to the Senator from Massachusetts--and we have had this dialog for hours on the floor, and for hours in the committee, and I will continue because of the enormous affection I have for the Senator from Massachusetts. We will continue this dialog. We are in fundamental disagreement on the interpretation of the Senator's proposed amendment. It is as simple as that. So I would be---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. The Senator from Massachusetts has asked me to yield first. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield to the Senator from Oregon for a question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. That is my understanding. 
   Obviously, I would like to include the Senator from Massachusetts in this dialog. Under his amendment--and I will be glad to respond to his question--isn't it true that defendants who are in the middle of the supply chain may be sued for a breach of contract caused not by the failure of the defendant's computers but by those elsewhere in the supply chain? That is the fundamental problem we have with Senator KERRY's amendment. 
   I yield to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. First of all, my response to the Senator from Massachusetts is that these companies and corporations that are in favor of this legislation--did the Senator from Massachusetts forget that half of them could be plaintiffs? Why is it that so many of them who could be plaintiffs are in support of this legislation? They are not just the defendants, they are the plaintiffs. 
   The fact is that we are helping business all over America. I have to tell my friend from Massachusetts that I came here to help business all over America. I came here to help entrepreneurs. I came here to stop the flood of litigation that has so distorted the business system in America. I came here with a clear campaign to say, look, we have too many frivolous lawsuits in America; we have too many class action suits; we have too many lawyers and not enough business people. 
   I am unashamed and unembarrassed to tell the Senator from Massachusetts that I am here in behalf of defendants who, if I took a poll tomorrow, would number 90 percent. I don't know the percentage that are lawyers, but I know it grows bigger by the day. But all of those who are lawyers would say: Yes, please, Senator MCCAIN, help business get off this terrible burden where we are paying so much, where we have become a litigious society in America and so many terrible things have happened as a result. 
   As I pointed out, Mr. Tom Johnson--a man who is becoming famous here on the floor of the Senate, I might add--is bringing these lawsuits against honest, hard-working people, especially small and medium-sized businesses. 
   If the Senator from Massachusetts is astonished--and I include the Senator from Oregon in the category--at trying to help businesses, small, medium, and large, from the incredible burden of litigation which has flooded the United States of America--guilty as charged. Guilty as charged. 
   The second aspect of this issue is clearly what I, as a business owner, would tell people. It is that I, as a business owner who distributes my product, would not be able to vouch for other people and other businesses that are also part of this distribution chain of my product. 
   That is again where I get back to the point that I do not know of any business in America that doesn't want to fix the Y2K problem. I know lots of business people who don't know, because of the distribution system--both through distributors and retailers--that they can vouch for those persons' willingness or ability to fix the Y2K problem, which then opens up that flood. 
   I hope I answered the Senator's question. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. My answer is, I know of no company or corporation in America that would not want to have the problem fixed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If I could respond very quickly about one aspect of this, I have confessed with great pride and sometimes with pleasure that I am not a member of the legal profession. But I am afraid the Senator from Massachusetts does not quite comprehend what we are dealing with here. 
   This is a book, ``Year 2000 Challenge, Legal Problems and Solutions,'' from the National Legal Center for the Public Interest. Let me quote for the Senator what we are facing so we can really put this in the proper perspective.  
   The unfortunate fact is there is no ``silver bullet'' solution to the year 2000 problem in any organization, and the risks and difficulties in any Year 2000 project of even moderate size and complexity can be enormous. None of the remediation techniques described above is without disadvantages, and for many IT users the time and resources required to accomplish Year 2000 remediation far exceed what is available. Most major remediation programs involve finding and correcting date fields in millions of lines of poorly documented or undocumented code. There is no single foolproof method of finding date fields, no assurance that all date fields will be found, corrected, or corrected accurately, and no assurance that corrections will not produce unintended and undesirable consequences elsewhere in the program. In many cases it will be necessary to rely on information or assurances from third party vendors regarding the Year 2000 compliance of their products, even though experience teaches that many such representations are inaccurate or misleading. Comprehensive end-to-end system testing of remediated systems in a simulated Year 2000 ``production'' environment is often impractical or impossible, and less intensive testing may fail to detect uncorrected problems. And even where an IT user succeeded in making its own systems Year 2000 ready. Year 2000 date handling problems in external systems (such as the systems of customers or suppliers) can have a devastating effect on internal operations.  
   With all due respect to my friend from Massachusetts, this is what we are trying to get in our legislation and this is what the Senator's amendment basically prevents us from doing. 
   Here is the problem. I don't claim to have the expertise that the Senator does on punitive damage or on joint and several liability. I know the problem pretty well. We have had extensive hearings in the Commerce Committee, and we have talked to all the experts. This is really what we are trying to take care of--not as the Senator from Massachusetts asked me, in good faith, do I believe there is any company or corporation that is not trying to fix a problem. I don't know of any. 
   I think what I read to the Senator from Massachusetts explains how difficult and enormously complex solving this problem is. This is why, although I respect and admire the Director of the FAA who will fly all day long on January 1, the year 2000, I intend to remain at home that day. However, I encourage others, as the Senator from Massachusetts, to fly around the country. 
   I say seriously to my friend from Massachusetts, I hope this explains to him the complexity of the problem. We not only can take care of the individual manufacturer, but all the systems and subsystems that are connected with it are not addressed, in my view, adequately, in the Senator's amendment. 
   Before I yield to both Senators, could we agree to some time on this amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If the Senator from Massachusetts and his staff will work on that, I appreciate that. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the purpose of proposing some amendments, I ask that the pending Kerry amendment be set aside for that purpose, with the proviso of returning immediately to the Kerry amendment. 
   I send to the desk two amendments by Senator MURKOWSKI, an amendment by Senator GREGG, an amendment by Senator INHOFE, and two amendments by Senator SESSIONS, and I ask for them to be numbered.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President I ask unanimous consent we return to the pending Kerry amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. One of the irate staff just came over here. I saw no harm associated with that process. If there were an objection, I would be glad to remove those amendments. They were simply amendments to be numbered in case when we get an agreement on both sides of the aisle. 
   I ask unanimous consent to withdraw those amendments, and we will leave everything as it was before. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Regarding the Kerry amendment, I want to mention that a company that has made no effort to prevent failure or fix its systems will undoubtedly be found more responsible for a plaintiff's injuries under the terms of S. 96 in liability already proposed, without the hazard of making a company that can't control the entire chain of distribution liable for the entire damage awarded the plaintiff. Our opposition to the pending Kerry amendment is almost that simple. 
   I note that the Senator from California is waiting to speak. I hope by the time the Senator is finished, perhaps we could have some agreement for a vote on this amendment so we could move forward, as well as agreement on the other side for resolving the remaining 12 amendments on both sides. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the following amendments on this side be in order and these amendments only: 
   Senator MURKOWSKI, two amendments; Senator INHOFE, one amendment; Senator GREGG, one amendment; Senator LOTT, one amendment; Senator SESSIONS, two amendments. 
   Although it may be redundant, I add to that the amendments that were already agreed to in yesterday's CONGRESSIONAL RECORD: Senator HOLLINGS, three amendments; Senator KERRY, one amendment; Senator BOXER, one amendment; Senator FEINSTEIN, one amendment; Senator FEINGOLD, one amendment; Senator GRAHAM of Florida, one amendment; Senator LEAHY, one amendment; Senator DODD, one amendment; Senator EDWARDS, two amendments; Senator DASCHLE, one amendment. 
   Would it be agreeable to Senator HOLLINGS if that is included in the unanimous consent agreement? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that those amendments be the  only ones in order in consideration of the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The amendment under Senator GRAHAM will now be listed under Senator TORRICELLI. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I also want to mention that I think the Senator from Massachusetts wants to discuss this amendment again. We are prepared to enter into a time agreement with the Senator from Massachusetts when he returns to the floor for his further discussion of the amendment. Perhaps we can enter into an agreement at that time. I will also be contacting Members whose amendments are still listed as relevant to reach time agreements with them so that perhaps by the close of business this evening we could have time agreements allocated, if possible. If not, we will just proceed with the amending process tomorrow. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank my colleague from Alaska for offering his amendment. I point out that his amendment does not only protect Alaskans. If a consumer radio fails, it's an inconvenience. If a radio used by the Phoenix police department fails, not only does it put the life of the police officer carrying it in jeopardy, but it also jeopardizes the safety of the public he or she protects. A company should give priority in responding to the Phoenix police station's need for Y2K failure assistance. 
   I am pleased to accept the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. We reserve the remainder of our time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-29-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I remind my colleagues of a letter that has already been made a part of the Record from the Year 2000 Coalition, which has more organizations and groups in it probably than I have ever seen--the entire high-tech community--addressed to Senator KERRY: 
   ``We urge you to support S. 96 and to not introduce an amendment to it.'' 
   ``[T]he Coalition does not support the amendment ..... that is being circulated in your name.'' 
   Have no doubt about where the high-tech community is on this amendment. 
   I ask unanimous consent for 2 minutes for the Senator from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-30-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Senator LEAHY now be recognized to offer an amendment with debate limited to 30 minutes equally divided, and following that debate the Senate proceed to vote in relation to the Leahy amendment with no amendments in order prior to the vote. 
   Before I finish this unanimous consent request, for the benefit of my colleagues, I do not intend to use the full 15 minutes on this side. I think my colleagues can anticipate a time for a pretty rapid vote by the time Senator LEAHY is finished. 
   Finally, I ask my colleagues who have amendments on the list of 12 amendments to agree to time agreements, so perhaps we could dispense with this bill tomorrow at an early moment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-31-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment, for all intents and purposes, will emasculate the bill. It will deny consumers, those least able to pay for attorneys, to hire attorneys to solve any Y2K problems, the average consumer the ability to resolve a problem quickly, within a maximum of 90 days, without litigation. 
   It also allows more of the Tom Johnson-type lawsuits: No requirement that there be an actual injury, no requirement that there be a real problem. This would negate the attempt by S. 96 to limit frivolous lawsuits. 
   I yield back the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-32-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Does the Senator want an up-or-down vote? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-33-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-34-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, to conduct a hearing on ``Financial Privacy.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation be authorized to meet on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. on S. 837--Auto Choice Reform Act of 1999. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Finance Committee requests unanimous consent to conduct a hearing on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, beginning at 10 a.m. in room 215 Dirksen. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, at 10 a.m. to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, at 3 p.m. to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Governmental Affairs Committee be permitted to meet on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, at 10 a.m. for a hearing on oversight of national security methods and processes relating to the Wen-Ho Lee espionage investigation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. to conduct an oversight hearing on internet gaming. The hearing will be held in room 485, Russell Senate Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Small Business be authorized  to meet during the session of the Senate for a markup on ``S. 918, Military Reservists Small Business Relief Act of 1999.'' The markup will be held on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room 428A of the Russell Senate Office Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Select Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 9, 1999, at 2 p.m. to hold a hearing on intelligence matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure be granted permission to conduct a second hearing on project delivery and streamlining of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, Wednesday, June 9, 9:30 a.m., hearing room SD-406. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990609</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Water and Power of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, June 9, for purposes of conducting a Water & Power Subcommittee hearing which is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. The purpose of this oversight hearing is to continue the oversight conducted by the subcommittee at the April 6, 1999, Hood River, on the process to determine the future of the four lower Snake River dams and conduct oversight on the Northwest Power Planning Council's Framework Process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I have 2 amendments to send to the desk. My understanding is, under the unanimous consent agreement, both of these amendments have to be proposed by the time of 2:30, so I send them at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send a second amendment to the desk, and I ask that it be numbered and set aside. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask the distinguished chairman when he would like me to address the issue of one amendment concerning reallocation of $3.1 billion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the chairman, and I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment restores $3.1 billion in operations and maintenance and procurement funding that is cut by section 108 of the bill. It reduces various accounts to eliminate funding for low-priority, unnecessary and wasteful spending by an equal amount. The amendment doesn't change the total amount for defense in this bill. It simply redirects the cuts to eliminate pork barrel spending rather than high-priority readiness and modernization funds. 
   I find it staggering that the committee would cut funding for readiness and modernization by $3.1 billion when this bill contains nearly $5 billion in spending for unrequested, low-priority, unnecessary and wasteful spending programs that have not been scrutinized in the normal merit-based review process. 
   Congress recently passed an emergency spending bill that contained nearly $11 billion in defense spending to pay for the costs of ongoing operations in Kosovo. I believe the administration request was around $5 billion. As the chairman of the committee stated on the floor yesterday, we will very likely need to act later this year on another supplemental bill to pay for continued offensive operations against Serbia or to enforce a peace agreement and protect the Kosovars who return home. 
   Why, then, would we want to cut funding from this bill that would be needed to carry out these operations into the next fiscal year? 
   Why wouldn't we instead cut some of the $5 billion in pork barrel spending that has been put in this bill principally for the benefit of Members and their constituents? 
   Here is the list of unrequested programs included in the bill that I have accumulated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, it totals $5 billion. Self-restraint in fiduciary matters is a virtue, especially for a party that rose to majority status with the promise of reducing this type of practice. 
   But every year it is the same old story: More money for NULKA antiship decoy systems; more money for the plethora of laser projects that have proliferated at every lab in the country; more money for unrequested and unneeded aircraft; more money for automatic grenade launchers--we have got to have a stockpile of these things that will last forever--more money for research into double-hull technology, which shipbuilders are supposed to provide themselves per the requirements of the Oil Pollution Prevention Act. 
   There are millions every year for hyperspectral research that is not requested by the military. Earmarks like the one that requires the Army and Marine Corps to make the Rock Island arsenal the center of all future design, development and production activities related to artillery do not represent good public policy. What is it that forces us to designate Rock Island arsenal as a center for this? That's not public policy. 
   Medical research and environmental matters unrelated to combat ought to be carefully scrutinized when funded in the defense budget. We do just the opposite: we use the defense budget to fund pet projects that should be funded through nondefense agencies in nondefense spending bills. Osteoporosis is a serious problem, but in the defense budget? $3 million to fund phyto-remediation research and arid lands? In the defense budget? How can we take ourselves seriously--how can the public take us seriously, when we demonstrate absolutely no willingness to curtail the very spending practices that put this country so heavily in debt? 
   At the very time a consensus has formed around the proposition that the armed forces are being stretched perilously thin, a situation that will get worse when we send more than a brigade's worth of ground forces into Kosovo, it is incumbent upon those of us elected to represent the interests of the nation that we act with a modicum of self-restraint where the public treasure is concerned. Failing to do so will not only damage the treasure, it will most assuredly cost lives. This is, after all, national defense. 
   Let's review some recent examples of readiness shortcomings, shortcomings that the Joint Chiefs of Staff have repeatedly emphasized pose a serious threat to both near and long-term readiness: 
   The nuclear carrier U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-65) recently deployed to the Persian Gulf and Kosovo, undermanned by some 800 sailors. 
   We are losing pilots to the commercial airlines faster than we can train them. 
   The Navy has one-half the F/A-18 pilots, one-third of the S-3 pilots, and only one-quarter of the EA-6B pilots it needs. 
   Only 26 percent of the Air Force pilots have committed to stay beyond their current service agreement. 
   The Army says that five of its ten divisions lack enough majors, captains, senior enlisted personnel, tankers and gunners. 
   Again, the world watches as the Air Force's main bomber, the B-52, once again is called to duty to delivery air launched cruise missiles in combat. How many times has the Air Force called upon this 40-year old workhorse to deliver devastating firepower? The B-52 bomber was already old when I saw it fly in Vietnam, and yet the Air Force plan will carry the current bomber fleet through the next 40 years, with a replacement to the B-52 tentatively planned in 2037. 
   The Navy is struggling to maintain a fleet of 300 ships, down from over 500 in the early 1990s. The fiscal year 2000 budget will not support a Navy of even 200 ships. 
   The Marine Corps saves money in spare parts by retreading light trucks and Humvees, so as to afford small arms ammunition for forward deployed Marines. 
   Mr. President, the cumulative effect of these types of readiness problems will most assuredly translate into higher risks for the young men and women we send into harm's way to defend us and our country. 
   Mr. President, I understand what is going on here. We have a problem, and that is the existence of stringent budget caps designed to keep government spending in check. I support those who are resisting the urge to bust the budget by exceeding the spending allowed by the 1997 budget agreement. 
   I also understand that the Appropriations Committee has to balance the interests of those who favor domestic spending over defense spending, and I realize that compromises have to be made. 
   But we shouldn't be stuffing appropriations bills, defense or otherwise, full of pork-barrel spending. And we shouldn't be cutting defense, like this bill does, to set aside money to cover the excess pork-barrel spending that will inevitably show up in other domestic appropriations bills later in the process. 
   And I would just like to make the point that the money that was taken from this bill for later pork-barrel spending could just as easily be reallocated back into this bill, when this amendment is adopted. 
   We shouldn't be jeopardizing the readiness of our Armed Forces by cutting high-priority funding just to stay within the budget caps. We should do the right thing, and cut the pork instead of potentially putting our men and women in harm's way without the training and tools they need to defend themselves and our nation. 
   I was going through this list here. Some of them are interesting and some are amusing: 
   Under Defense Health Program is $1.4 billion for the Alaska Federal Health Care Partnership; Tri-Service Nursing Research Program, $6 million--remember, this is out of Defense. I don't even know where the Tri-Service Nursing Research Program is. Then there is Pacific Island Health Care, $5 million; brown tree snakes--the perennial tree snakes--is only a million dollars this year. I would have thought that with all the millions and millions we have spent on brown tree snakes over the past years, we would have at least been able to defend a nation from them. Unfortunately, the spending for brown tree snakes continues, and probably will for a long time--at least in my lifetime. 
   Outcome Driven Health Care and Info Systems, $6 million; Breast Cancer Research Program, $175 million; Prostate Cancer Research Program, $75 million; Acute lung injury, advanced soft tissue modeling, et cetera, et cetera, $50 million. Then, of course, we have the usual protections in this legislation that requires us to ``buy American'' anchor chains, carbon, alloy, or armor steel plate, and ball and roller bearings. We have to buy American for computers this time. That is interesting. We have to buy American coal for municipal  district heat in Germany. Talk about the old line about bringing coal to New Castle. Then, of course, we have to buy American food, specialty metals, hand tools, measuring tools, clothing and fabrics. 
   Then we have Ship Depot Operation Support at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, $23 million. I am very curious about that expenditure up in Philadelphia, which was supposed to be opened and going to be in private hands. Barrow landfill, $3 million; Professional Development/Education Asia Pacific Center, $1.7 million. I wonder whose profession is being developed there. Let's see. The list goes on. 
   I think I have made my point, as usual. Here is Counternarcotics Center at Hammer. Since I don't know where Hammer is, I probably should not comment on it. The list goes on. Here is one the military didn't request: A smart truck initiative. Perhaps we will have trucks that gas themselves, because $3.5 million is a pretty hefty sum to spend on smart trucks. 
   Here is Plasma Energy Pyrolysis system and Phyto-remediation in Arid Lands. Not to mention one of our important defense items, Texas Regional Institute for Environmental Studies. Then there is the University Partnering for Operations Support and Cold Regions R&D. 
   The list goes on. The point is that we now have 11,000 enlisted families that are on food stamps. We now have a shortage of air launch cruise missiles, which everybody knows about. We now have an incredible increase in the wear and tear of our equipment because of the dramatically increased operations regarding Kosovo. What do we do? We think that we spend the money the military needs for modernization and operations and maintenance? No, Mr. President. We spend $5 billion in unnecessary and unwanted things, which is up, by the way, from the supplemental. I think I only identified a little over $2 billion that was in the ``emergency'' supplemental, such as Dungeness crab fishermen, reindeer, and other ``vital emergencies'' that required our immediate attention. 
   So, I have very little confidence that this amendment will carry. I think it is important, however, that the American 
   people know where their tax dollars are going, and sooner or later--perhaps later--they will demand that we stop doing this with their hard-earned tax dollars. It may be later, as I say. But I also have to say to my dear friends on the Appropriations Committee, I see increases in this kind of wasteful and unnecessary spending, not decreases. There is going to have to come a point where we are going to have to start having recorded votes on all this stuff. I am worried about brown tree snakes like everybody else, but I am much more worried about the men and women in the military who happen to be subsisting on food stamps today. I think a lot of Americans are growing rather weary of this procedure. 
   Mr. President, I will be glad to have a tabling motion vote or an up-or-down vote on this amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990608</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the chairman and ranking member spoke eloquently about the merits of several projects in this bill that affect their States. As I have said before, I don't pretend to judge the merit of each and every project on the list of objectionable materials. I do, however, object to the process by which these projects were added to this bill, the process that circumvented the normal and appropriate merit-based review for determining the highest priority not only in defense but across all appropriations bills. 
   I want to clarify something the chairman said: In this list, it does not--repeat, does not--include funding for the SBIRS program on the Israeli arrow missile defense program. There is no reduction in funding for those programs. 
   Finally, my colleagues know the military service chiefs testified to Congress earlier this year that they need more than $17 billion every year in order to redress several readiness shortfalls. This bill falls about $6 billion short of that goal. This amendment would restore $13 billion in high-priority readiness and modernization funds to help meet the services' needs, offsetting every time with low-priority spending cuts. 
   I emphasize they came over and said they needed $17 billion. We are not meeting that minimal request. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate has adopted my amendment to S. 1059, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000, to authorize special compensation for severely disabled military retirees who suffer under an existing law regarding ``concurrent receipt.'' As many of my colleagues know, current law requires military retirees who are rated as disabled to offset their military retired pay by the amount they receive in veterans' disability compensation. This requirement is discriminatory and wrong. 
   Today, America's disabled military retirees--those individuals who dedicated their careers to military service, and who suffered disabling injuries in the course of that service--cannot receive concurrently their military retirement pay, which they have earned through at least 20 years of service in the Armed Forces, and their veterans' disability compensation, which they are owed due to pain and suffering incurred from military service. In other words, the law penalizes the very men and women who have sacrificed their physical or psychological well-being in uniformed service to their country. 
   My amendment does not provide for full payment to eligible veterans of both the disability compensation and the retired pay they have earned. I regret that such a proposal, which I support in principle, would be far more expensive than many of my colleagues could accept. I learned that lesson the hard way in the course of sponsoring more ambitious concurrent receipt proposals in previous Congresses. 
   The amendment instead authorizes special compensation for the most severely disabled retired veterans--those who have served for at least 20 years, and who have disability ratings of between 70 and 100 percent. More specifically, it would authorize monthly payments of $300 for totally disabled retired veterans; $200 for retirees rated as 90 percent disabled; and $100 for retirees with disability ratings of 70-80 percent. 
   These men and women suffer from disabilities that have kept them from pursuing second careers. If we cannot muster the votes to provide them with their disability pay and retired pay concurrently, the least we can do is authorize a modest special compensation package to demonstrate that we have not forgotten their sacrifices. 
   The Military Coalition, an organization of 30 prominent veterans' and retires' advocacy groups, supports this legislation, as do many other veterans' service organizations, including the American Legion and Disabled American Veterans. These highly respected organizations recognize, as I do, that severely disabled military retirees deserve, at a minimum, special compensation for the honorable service they have rendered the United States. 
   The existing requirement that military retired pay be offset dollar-for-dollar by veterans' disability compensation is inequitable. I firmly believe that non-disability military retired pay is post-service compensation for services rendered in the United States military. Veterans' disability pay, on the other hand, is compensation for a physical or mental disability incurred from the performance of such service. In my view, the two pays are for very different purposes: one for service rendered and the other for physical or mental ``pain and suffering.'' This is an important distinction evident to any military retiree currently forced to offset his retirement pay with disability compensation. 
   Concurrent receipt is, at its core, a fairness issue, and present law simply discriminates against career military people. Retired veterans are the only group of federal retirees who are required to waive their retirement pay in order to receive VA disability. This inequity needs to be corrected. The Senate has made important progress toward that end with the adoption of this amendment. 
   I continue to hope that the Pentagon, once it finally understands our message that it cannot continue to unfairly penalize disabled military retirees, will provide Congress with a fair and equitable plan to properly compensate retired service members with disabilities. It is hard to disagree with the simple logic that disabled veterans both need and deserve our full support after the untold sacrifices they made in defense of this country. 
   I look forward to the day when our disabled retirees are no longer unduly penalized by existing limitations on concurrent receipt of the benefits they deserve. And I thank Senators WARNER and LEVIN, the managers of S. 1059, for accepting my amendment to provide special compensation for severely disabled retired veterans, who deserve our ongoing support and gratitude. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment would remove from Title 29 of the bill all references to renewing the withdrawal from public use of the Barry M. Goldwater Range in Arizona. In place of the stricken language, I am proposing a ``sense of the Senate'' provision that expresses the clear desire to complete the legislative process of renewing the withdrawal of this land this  year, both because of its vital importance to military readiness and the environmental and cultural resources that will be preserved and protected by its continued withdrawn status. 
   I offer this amendment reluctantly, but in full recognition of the unintended controversy caused by its inclusion in the bill at this time. My intention in including these provisions in the Defense Authorization bill this year was to create a meaningful placeholder in the bill to ensure that legislation withdrawing the Goldwater Range could be enacted during this session of Congress. Based on repeated assurances and testimony before Congress, I believe the Administration shares that goal, and I intend to pursue inclusion of a final legislative package, developed with input from all interested parties, in the conference agreement on this legislation. 
   Unfortunately, my attempt to craft language which remained neutral on the few controversial aspects of the proposed withdrawal appears to have been inadequate. In addition, concerns about the process by which this legislation was developed have also been raised. Therefore, in order to ensure that all interested parties have a full opportunity to participate in the drafting of the final legislation withdrawing the Goldwater Range, I am proposing this amendment to replace the existing language with a ``sense of the Senate'' provision expressing the desire to complete the withdrawal process this year. 
   As I have said, there has been some controversy about the language of title 29. 
   I appreciate the concerns raised by the leadership of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and the Environment and Public Works Committee concerning their jurisdiction, respectively, over public lands management and wildlife refuges. In no way was the inclusion of this language in the bill intended to preclude the ability of those Committees to conduct oversight hearings and provide input in the final legislation to withdraw the Goldwater and other ranges covered in Title 29. In full respect, however, of these Committees' interest in ensuring this bill in no way prejudices the outcome of the legislative process, I agree that a placeholder which simply expresses the desire to the Senate to enact legislation this year is more appropriate at this time. I fully expect to work closely with all members of the Senate and interested outside parties to reach a consensus on legislation that can be re-inserted in this bill in conference. 
   I also sympathize with the concerns raised by several organizations regarding future environmental stewardship of the Goldwater Range, just as I fully appreciate and support the need to maintain the availability of the range for essential military training. 
   Let me reiterate what I said more fully in my additional views filed with the bill. This language was intended simply to be a placeholder to ensure that, if an Administration proposal is submitted to Congress this year for the withdrawal of these lands, it can be appropriately considered in the normal legislative process. I have been and will remain committed to ensuring that all viewpoints are heard and respected in crafting the final language of the withdrawal legislation, both because of the importance of the Goldwater Range as a military training facility, and to preserve and protect the unique environmental and cultural resources in this 2.7 million acre area. 
   The placeholder language in Title 29 of the Committee-reported bill is generally based on Public Law 99-606, which is the law that currently governs the status of these lands and which expires in 2001. However, the language is intentionally silent on many of the difficult issues that must be resolved before this legislation can be enacted. For example, the Committee-approved provision does not specify a length of time for the withdrawal of the Goldwater Range. The provision is deliberately ambiguous, as is the language of Public Law 99-606 which currently governs these lands, about whether the Cabeza Prieta is withdrawn or not, and it is silent on the issue of which federal agency manages all or part of the land. 
   At the same time, through the Committee process, the language was amended to include several additional provisions, not in the current law, to improve environmental protection and resource management of the lands. It mandates at least the same level of resource management and preservation be maintained at the range, and requires the Secretary of the Interior to provide a report on any additional recommended management measures. It precludes changes in the memorandum of understanding between the Department of Defense and Department of the Interior that governs the management of the Cabeza Prieta without notifying Congress 90 days in advance. It also includes a provision requiring a study and recommendation, to be submitted to Congress within two years, on the proposal to designate the Goldwater Range as part of a Sonoran Desert National Park. 
   The language would have been subject to further negotiation and amendment, pending submission of the Administration's legislative proposal to Congress. However, respecting the concerns raised by others about the content of the placeholder legislation, I am proposing that it be stricken. 
   Mr. President, it is vitally important that the Administration complete the process for renewing the withdrawal of these lands and provide a final legislative proposal to Congress this year. Delaying this issue unnecessarily puts at risk both the tremendous efforts to protect the natural and cultural resources on these lands and the critical need to conduct military training, both of which would end with the expiration of the current law. 
   The Administration has stated their desire to complete the legislative process for withdrawal of these lands during this session of the Congress--a goal which I and the Committee fully support--and has now committed to send a final legislative proposal to Congress by approximately June 9, 1999. I urge the Administration to finalize and submit a legislative proposal as early as possible so that all interested parties may review it carefully and efforts can be undertaken quickly to achieve a consensus on legislation that can be enacted this year in this bill. 
   Mr. President, I hope this amendment can be accepted. I believe I have the support of the able Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator WARNER, to try to work out acceptable language on the Goldwater Range withdrawal, as well as the Chairmen of the Environment and Energy Committees. I look forward to working with the relevant committees and interested parties to reach a consensus on a final legislative package regarding the Goldwater Range that can be included in the conference agreement on this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, as my colleagues in the Senate know, I make a point of going through spending bills very carefully and compiling lists of programs added at the request of individual members that were not included in the Defense Department's budget request. I should state at the outset that I believe Chairman WARNER and Senator LEVIN, the ranking member, should be commended for their efforts at producing a bill that addresses a number of very serious readiness problems. As American pilots continue to fly missions over Yugoslavia and Iraq while maintaining commitments in virtually every part of the globe, the care and maintenance of the armed forces cannot be taken for granted--not if we wish to avoid imperiling our vital national interests. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, yesterday, I introduced two bills, S. 1130, the Motor Vehicle Rental Fairness Act and S. 1125, the Telecommunications Merger Review Act of 1999. Later in the day, I asked that Senator CONNIE MACK be  added as an original cosponsor to the Motor Vehicle Rental Fairness Act. Despite the fact that my request specifically stated ``the Motor Vehicle Rental Fairness Act'', the Bill Clerk's office inadvertently added Senator MACK as a cosponsor to the Telecommunications Merger Review Act. It is my understanding that this error has been corrected. I want the record to reflect that Senator MACK was an original Cosponsor of the Motor Vehicle Rental Fairness Act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990527</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I along with Senators COCHRAN and BURNS are proud to introduce the Fair Competition in Foreign Commerce Act of 1999, to address the serious problem of waste, fraud and abuse resulting from bribery and corruption in international development projects. This legislation will set conditions for U.S. funding through multilateral development banks. These conditions will require the country receiving aid to adopt substantive procurement reforms and independent third-party procurement monitoring of their international development projects. 
   During the cold war, banks and governments often looked the other way as pro-western leaders in developing countries treated national treasuries as their personal treasury troves. Today, we cannot afford to look the other way when we see bribery and corruption running rampant in other countries because these practices undermine our goals of promoting democracy and accountability, fostering economic development and trade liberalization, and achieving a level playing field throughout the world for American businesses. 
   The United States is increasingly called upon to lead multilateral efforts to provide much-needed economic assistance to developing nations. The American taxpayers make substantial contributions to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-American Investment Corporation, the North American Development Bank, and the African Development Fund. 
   However, it is critical that we take steps to ensure that Americans' hard-earned tax dollars are being used appropriately. The Fair Competition in Foreign Commerce Act of 1999 is designed to decrease the stifling effects of bribery and corruption in international development contracts. By doing so, we will (1) enable U.S. businesses to become more competitive when bidding against foreign firms which secure government contracts through bribery and corruption; (2) encourage additional direct investment to developing nations, thus increasing  their economic growth, and (3) increase opportunities for U.S. businesses to export to these nations as their economies expand and mature. 
   Multilateral lending efforts are only effective in spurring economic development if the funds are used to further the intended development projects, not to line the pockets of foreign bureaucrats and their well-connected political allies. 
   When used for its intended purpose, foreign aid yields both short- and long-term benefits to U.S. businesses. Direct foreign aid assists developing nations to develop their infrastructure. A developed infrastructure is vital to creating and sustaining a modern dynamic economy. Robust new economies create new markets to which U.S. businesses can export their goods and services. Exports are key to the U.S. role in the constantly expanding and increasingly competitive global economy. 
   The current laws and procedures designed to detect and deter corruption after the fact are inadequate and meaningless. This bill seeks to ensure that U.S. taxpayers' hard-earned dollars contributed to international projects are used appropriately, by detecting and eliminating bribery and corruption before they can taint the integrity of international projects. Past experience illustrates that it is ineffective to attempt to reverse waste, fraud, and abuse in large-scale foreign infrastructure projects, once the abuse has already begun. Therefore, it is vital to detect the abuses before they occur. 
   The Fair Competition in Foreign Commerce Act of 1999 requires the United States Government, through its participation in multilateral lending institutions and in its disbursement of non-humanitarian foreign assistance funds, to: (1) require the recipient international financial institution to adopt an anti-corruption plan that requires the aid recipient to use independent third-party procurement monitoring services, at each stage of the procurement process to ensure openness and transparency in government procurements, and (2) require the recipient nation to institute specific strategies for minimizing corruption and maximizing transparency in procurements at each stage of the procurement process. The legislation directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the United States Executive Directors of the various international institutions to use the voice and vote of the United States to prevent the lending institution from providing funds to nations which do not satisfy the procurement reforms criteria. 
   This Act has two important exceptions. First, it does not apply to assistance to meet urgent humanitarian needs such as providing food, medicine, disaster, and refugee relief. Second, it also permits the President to waive the funding restrictions with respect to a particular country, if making such funds available is important to the national security interest of the United States. 
   Independent third-party procurement monitoring is a system where an uninvolved entity conducts a program to eliminate bias, to promote transparency and open competition, and to minimize fraud and corruption, waste and inefficiency and other misuse of funds in international procurements. The system does this through an independent evaluation of the technical, financial, economic and legal aspects of each stage of a procurement, from the development and issuance of technical specifications, bidding documents, evaluation reports and contract preparation, to the delivery of goods and services. This monitoring takes place throughout the entire term of the international development project. 
   Mr. President, this system has worked for other governments. Procurement reforms and third-party procurement monitoring resulted in the governments of Kenya, Uganda, Colombia, and Guatemala experiencing significant cost savings in recent procurements. For instance, the Government of Guatemala experienced an overall savings of 48% when it adopted a third-party procurement monitoring system and other procurement reform measures in a recent contract for pharmaceuticals. 
   Mr. President, bribery and corruption have many victims. Bribery and corruption hamper vital U.S. interests. Both harm consumers, taxpayers, and honest traders who lose contracts, production, and profits because they refuse to offer bribes to secure foreign contracts. 
   Bribery and corruption have become a serious problem. A World Bank survey of 3,600 firms in 69 countries showed 40% of businesses paying bribes. More startling is that Germany still permits its companies to take a tax deduction for bribes. Commerce Secretary Daley summed up the serious impact of bribery and corruption upon American businesses ability to compete for foreign contracts in 1997:  
   Since mid-1994, foreign firms have used bribery to win approximately 180 commercial contracts valued at nearly $80 billion. We estimate that over the past year, American companies have lost at least 50 of these contracts, valued at $15 billion. And since many of these contracts were for groundbreaking projects--the kind that produce exports for years to come--the ultimate cost could be much higher.  
   Since then American companies have continued to lose international development contracts because of unfair competition from businesses paying bribes. This terrible trend must be brought to a halt. 
   Exports will continue to play an increasing role in our economic expansion. We can ill afford to allow any artificial impediments to our ability to export. Bribery and corruption significantly hinder American businesses' ability to compete for lucrative overseas government contracts. American businesses are simply not competitive when bidding against foreign firms that have bribed government officials to secure overseas government contracts. Openness and fairness in government contracts will greatly enhance opportunities to compete in the rapidly expanding global economy. Exports equate to jobs. Jobs equate to more money in hard-working Americans' pockets. More money in Americans' pockets means more money for Americans to save and invest in their futures. 
   Bribery and corruption also harm the country receiving the aid because bribery and corruption often inflate the cost of international development projects. For example, state sponsorship of massive infrastructure projects that are deliberately beyond the required specification needed to meet the objective is a common example of the waste, fraud, and abuse 
   inherent in corrupt procurement practices. Here, the cost of corruption is not the amount of the bribe itself, but the inefficient use of resources that the bribes encourage. 
   Bribery and corruption drive up costs. Companies are forced to increase prices to cover the cost of bribes they are forced to pay. A 2% bribe on a contract can raise costs by 15%. Over time, tax revenues will have to be raised or diverted from other more deserving projects to fund these excesses. Higher taxes and the inefficient use of resources both hinder growth. 
   The World Bank and the IMF both recognize the link between bribery and corruption, and decreased economic growth. Recent studies also indicate that high levels of corruption are associated with low levels of investment and growth. Furthermore, corruption lessens the effectiveness of industrial policies and encourages businesses to operate in the unofficial sector in violation of tax and regulatory laws. More important, corruption breeds corruption and discourages legitimate investment. In short, bribery and corruption create a ``lose-lose'' situation for the U.S. and developing nations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak on the amendment for approximately 5 minutes. I probably will not take that long. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, all I can assume is that perhaps this vote may be getting close because a list was distributed, which can only be to try to frighten Members, which has no basis in anything except the imagination of some Senate staffer. It is really unfortunate we have to get into this kind of damn foolishness. I mean really, this is just foolishness. It does not have my State on it, yet three bases were ``considered'' by BRAC between 1991 and 1995. Whoever is responsible for this really ought to be a little ashamed--a little ashamed, maybe. 
   The process exists. It was used before. Every single expert, whether they be inside or outside the military--unless they are a Member of Congress--says that we have to close bases. Find me one, find me one military expert, former Secretary of Defense, any general, any admiral, any expert, anyone from a think tank, right or left on the political spectrum, Heritage Foundation, Brookings--find one. Find one who does not say we have too many bases and we have to go through a procedure to close them. This procedure was used in years past. 
   Strangely enough, strangely enough we have arguments like it costs more money to close bases than it does to keep them open. If that is the case, we ought to build more bases. If that is the case, we never should have closed the bases after World War II. The fact is, that has saved billions and will save billions. 
   We have young men and women at risk all over the world who are not properly equipped, who are not properly trained, who are leaving the military--11,000 people on food stamps and we have not even got the nerve and the political will, some might even say guts, to do the right thing. The right thing is to save money, transfer that money to the men and women in the military who are serving under very difficult conditions with equipment that has not been modernized, with a readiness level that we have not seen since the 1970s, and morale at an all-time low. Meanwhile, our commitments grow and grow and grow. 
   I guess, given this incredible, bizarre list that some intellectually dishonest staffer--intellectually dishonest staffer compiled, we will probably lose this vote. But I tell you, this will not be a bright and shining hour for the Senate of the United States of America. 
   I yield the remainder of my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise this morning to introduce The Telecommunications Merger Review Act of 1999, which will make the government's review of telecommunications industry mergers more coherent and effective. 
   It seems like hardly a week goes by without the announcement of yet another precedent-setting merger in the telecommunications industry. Consumers are right to be concerned about the possible effects of these mergers, and the Congress is right to be concerned that government review of these mergers is careful and consistent in keeping consumer interests uppermost. 
   The urgent need for competence and clarity in reviewing telecom industry mergers highlights a glaring problem in the current system. That problem, Mr. President, arises from the fact that different agencies sequentially go over the same issues, and, after considerable delay, can make radically different decisions on the same sets of facts. 
   Two of these agencies, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, have extensive expertise in analyzing the competition-related issues that are involved in mergers, and they approach the merger review process with a great deal of professionalism and efficiency. The third agency, the Federal Communications Commission, has comparatively little expertise in these issues, and only limited authority under the law. 
   Nevertheless, the FCC has bootstrapped itself into the unintended role of official federal dealbreaker. How? By using its authority to impose conditions on the FCC licenses that are being transferred as part and parcel of the overall merger deal. Because the FCC must pre-approve all license transfers, its ability to pass on the underlying licenses gives it a chokehold on the parties to the merger. And it uses that chokehold to prolong the process and extract concessions from the merging parties that oftentimes  have very little, if anything, to do with the merger itself. 
   Mr. President, many people might ask, what's so bad about that? Won't the FCC's conditions make sure that consumer interests are served? The short answer is, the FCC is simply duplicating the review and that the Department of Justice performs with much more competence and efficiency. About the best you can say is that the FCC is wasting valuable resources that could more productively be spent elsewhere. But the real harm lies in the fact that the FCC is foisting needless burdens and restrictions on the merging companies that translate into higher costs for consumers. 
   The FCC tries to defend its efforts by arguing that its job is really different from DOJ's--that DOJ makes sure that a merger won't harm competition, while the FCC makes sure that the same merger will help competition. In other words, according to the FCC, DOJ looks at a merger's effect on business; the FCC looks at its effect on people. For example, last week FCC Chairman Kennard gave a speech in which he proclaimed that, despite the strain these merger reviews were imposing on the agency, ``We will not rest until on each transaction we can articulate to the American public what are the benefits of this merger to average American consumers, because I believe that's what the public-interest 
   review requires.'' 
   If that's true, I have good news for Chairman Kennard--he can take a rest, because DOJ is doing exactly the same thing. In a separate speech last week Assistant Attorney General Joel Klein, DOJ's chief merger review official, said that what most people do not understand (including, evidently, the FCC), is that ``everything we do in antitrust ..... is consumer driven.'' He then went on to say precisely what that means:  
   We are a unique federal agency. Our interest is to protect what the economists call consumer welfare. And there is one simple truth that animates everything we do, and that is competition--the more people chasing after the consumer, to serve him or her better, to get lower prices, to get new innovations, to create new opportunities--the more of that juice that goes through the system, the better.  
   To be accurate, there is one big difference between the way the FCC and the DOJ do merger reviews: DOJ is infinitely better at it. Two weeks ago the FCC's already-faltering merger review process hit rock-bottom when a staff member (an ostensible antitrust expert) heading up the FCC's review of the SBC-Ameritech merger (which DOJ has already approved) publicly proclaimed that, unless the FCC imposed major conditions, the proposed transaction ``flunks the public interest test.'' An ``unnamed agency spokeswoman'' then cheerfully agreed that a majority of the Commissioners shared the same view. 
   Can you imagine either the FTC or DOJ countenancing such happenings during the course of their merger review processes? I think not. This appallingly unprofessional behavior by the FCC staff drove the value of SBC and Ameritech stock down over $2 billion, and it confirmed that, if this is what passes for FCC merger review ``expertise,'' the FCC has no business being in it. 
   Mr. President, this bill will restore integrity and professionalism to federal review of telecommunications industry mergers. It does not touch either DOJ's or FTC's broad authority to review all mergers, including all telecommunications industry mergers. It would make sure that any FCC concerns are heard by incorporating the FCC into DOJ and FTC merger review proceedings. Nor does it touch the FCC's broad authority to adopt and enforce rules to govern the behavior of telecommunications companies. What it does do is tell the FCC that, in cases where either DOJ or FTC has reviewed a proposed telecommunications merger and stated in writing no intent to intervene, the FCC must follow the determination of these expert agencies and transfer any FCC licenses without further delay. 
   Under this bill the FCC may independently review proposed mergers when neither DOJ nor FTC states in writing its intent not to intervene. Nevertheless, because DOJ and FTC review all mergers and have authority to intervene in any merger, their nonintervention is 
   any proposed merger appropriately signifies that they find the transaction at issue is unobjectionable. Therefore, any FCC review in such cases is subject to a strict 60-day deadline, and the FCC is directed to presume approval without attaching further conditions or obligations on any of the parties. Nothing (except extreme unlikelihood) would preclude the FCC from rebutting the presumption with hard facts, nor would the FCC be precluded from subsequently exercising its existing enforcement and rulemaking prerogatives to deal with any unanticipated problems. 
   Mr. President, we can streamline the way the federal government reviews telecom industry mergers and still safeguard the public interest. That's what this bill is intended to do by eliminating bureaucratic mismanagement while preserving essential federal review and enforcement prerogatives. I urge my colleagues to give it careful consideration and support. 
   This bill, the Telecom Merger Review Act of 1999, would do nothing to change the authority that the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission currently have to review all telecom industry mergers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Motor Vehicle Rental Fairness Act of 1999. The measure is short, simple and important. It will assure that companies who rent or lease motor vehicles are not held liable for accidents caused by their customers when there is no way the companies could prevent these accidents. 
   Normally under our system of jurisprudence, defendants in lawsuits are held liable based upon their action or inaction. Unfortunately, a small number of states ignore this general principle. This minority of states subject rental and leasing companies to unlimited liability for accidents caused by their customers that involve the company's vehicles--despite the fact that the company was not at fault. This type of vicarious liability, liability without fault, holds these companies liable even when they have not been negligent in any way and the vehicle operated perfectly. 
   The measure I am introducing prevents states from holding companies liable for accidents based solely upon their ownership of the vehicles. The bill makes clear that rental companies would still be liable if the vehicle did not operate properly. It makes clear that companies are not excused from meeting state minimum insurance requirements on their motor vehicles. Minimum insurance requirements ensure that people involved in accidents with vehicles owned by rental companies have recourse to recover some damages. 
   The reason most often cited for imposing vicarious liability is to ensure that an innocent third party can recover damages in an accident. Unfortunately, this quest for a financially responsible defendant has lead to absurd results. If a vehicle is purchased from a bank or finance company, then there is no vicarious liability. However, if that same vehicle is leased, vicarious liability applies. 
   This problem attracted my attention because of the impact the policies of a small number of states have on interstate commerce. Settlements and judgments from vicarious liability claims against rental companies cost the industry over $100 million annually. And let me be clear, it is the consumer who is paying this cost. 
   For these reasons, this bill and the reforms it implements are long overdue. Everyone, companies and individuals alike should be held liable only for harm they caused or could have prevented. The only way these companies can prevent this harm would be to go out of business. This is an absurd expectation that will be remedied by this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of myself and Senator LEVIN, Senator BRYAN, Senator LEAHY, Senator KOHL, Senator LIEBERMAN, Senator ROBB, Senator KYL, Senator HAGEL, and Senator CHAFEE, I send an amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this amendment authorizes a single round of U.S. military installation realignment and base closures to occur in the year 2001. 
   It is an argument and a debate that we have had several times in the past few years, but obviously the argument deserves to be ventilated again. I am reminded, in considering this amendment, of a comment made by my old dear and beloved friend, Morris Udall, of my home State of Arizona, who once said after a long discussion of an issue that had been fairly well ventilated:  
   Everything that could possibly be said on this issue has been said, only not everyone has said it.  
   I think that, again, will be the case with this base closing amendment, because we have been around this track on several occasions. But I do have to credit the imagination and inventiveness of the opponents of the base closing round because they continue to invent new reasons to oppose a round of base closings. They are charming ideas. One of them you will probably hear is that base closings don't save money. That is a very interesting and entertaining argument. I wish we had held to that argument after World War II was over, because we would still have some 150 bases in my State of Arizona, which I am sure would be a significant benefit to our economy. 
   Another aspect of this debate you will hear is that the issue of base closings has been politicized and, therefore, we can't have one. I think my friend, the distinguished chairman, has come up with a new and entertaining argument that every time we go through a base closing, every town, city, and State goes through a very difficult period of time. I agree with him. I certainly agree with him as he will pose that argument. But that doesn't in the slightest change the requirement that we need to close some bases. 
   I have to tell my friend, the chairman, it doesn't ring true to stand and lament the state of the military, our declining readiness, our lack of modernization of the force, all of the evils, the recruitment problems, and the failure to fund much-needed programs, and then not support what is clearly most needed, according to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and according to the Secretary of Defense--and according, really, to every objective observer of our military establishment. 
   Why is it that it took us a month to get Apache helicopters from Germany to Albania? Why is it that we are now hearing if we decided tomorrow to prepare for ground troops--an idea which was soundly rejected by this body--but if finally the recognition came about that we are really not winning this conflict, that Mr. Milosevic is achieving all of his objectives, and we continue to hear great reports about how we have destroyed so much of their capability, yet, the ethnic cleansing is nearing completion and Mr. Milosevic has more troops now than less, why is  it that it would take many, many weeks, if not months, to get a force in place in order to move into Kosovo to help right the atrocities that have been committed there? It is because we have not restructured our military establishment. It is that simple. 
   The military establishment in the cold war, very correctly, was structured for a massive conventional tank war on the plains of Europe, the central plains of Europe. That was what our military was all about, and that was the major threat to our security. And now we have a military, which we have failed to 
   restructure, we have failed to make mobile, we have failed to become capable to move anyplace in the world--in this case rather a short distance, from Germany to Albania--and, once there, decisively impact the battlefield equation. There are many reasons for this. 
   There was a great article in the Wall Street Journal a few weeks ago about how the Army had plans to restructure; yet, at the end of the day, they failed to do so for various reasons--by the way, the lesson being that the military will not restructure itself. It has to be done with an active role by the Congress. 
   But to sit here, as we are today, with all these shortages, where all of us are lamenting the incredible problems we have; yet, we then support a base structure which cannot be justified for any logical reason, is something that I think causes us great credibility problems--first, with people who pay attention to these kinds of things, and, second, at the end of the day with the American people. 
   I say this with full realization and appreciation that there are bases in my home State that may be in danger of being closed. There was a base closed in the round of base closings before the last one, which, by the way, is now generating more revenue for the State of Arizona than it did while it was a functioning military base. But setting that aside, when the base was closed, of course, there was great trauma. There was great dislocation among many civilians who worked out at Williams Air Force Base. But the fact is that we have to reduce the size of our base structures or we will continue to not be able to fund the much-needed improvements that are absolutely vital to us being able to conduct a conflict or war. 
   Our former colleague, Secretary Cohen, says.  
   Nevertheless, no other reform even comes close to offering the potential savings afforded by even a single round of BRAC. There simply is no substitute for base closure and realignment. 
   The two additional rounds under consideration will ultimately save $20 billion and generate $3.6 billion annually, 
   Moreover, the Department continues to streamline the process, making it even easier for communities to dispose of base property and to create new jobs in the future.  
   The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff wrote:  
   We are writing to you to express our strong and unified support for authorization for additional rounds of base closures........ * * * * * 
   The importance of BRAC goes beyond savings, however. BRAC is the single most effective tool available to the Services to realign their infrastructure to meet the needs of changing organizations and to respond to new ways of doing business. No other initiative can substitute for BRAC in terms of ability to reduce and reshape our infrastructure. Simply stated, our military judgment is that further base closures are absolutely necessary.  
   Signed by all of the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as I said at the beginning of my remarks, we have been over this many, many times. The annual net savings from previous BRAC rounds will grow from almost $4 billion this year to $5.67 billion per year by 2001. The savings are real. They are coming sooner and are greater than anticipated.  
   GAO recently noted that in most communities where bases were closed incomes are actually rising faster and unemployment rates are lower than the national average. Additionally, a provision in the bill allows for the no-cost transfer of property from the military to the community in areas that are affected by the closures. 
   Our Armed Services are carrying the burden of managing and paying for an estimated 23 percent of excess infrastructure that will cost $3.6 billion this year alone, 
   $3.6 billion that could be spent in efforts to retrain our pilots who are getting out faster than we can train them. It could be spent on recruiting qualified men and women of which there are significant shortfalls, especially in the U.S. Navy. It could be spent on retaining the highly qualified men and women who are leaving the Armed Forces in droves. There are so many things we can do with an additional $3.6 billion. But it will probably not happen. 
   I want to tell my colleagues that occasionally we lose credibility around here because of some of the things we do--the pork barrel spending, for example, that seems to be on the rise rather than decreasing, if you had the chance to examine the supplemental emergency bill we just passed. That, of course, is not pleasant for me to contemplate. 
   But when we are fooling around with national security, when we are fooling around with our Nation's ability to defend our vital national interests in these very unsettling times, then I would argue that we bear a heavy responsibility. 
   This is a simple amendment--one round, year 2001. The Commission is not appointed until May 2001. So this President does not have any hand in the appointment of a base closing commission. We really need two rounds. But this is at the request of the Senator from Michigan. It will only be one round. 
   Savings over the next 4 years are conservatively estimated to reach $25 billion. We probably won't do it. We probably won't do it. We couldn't do it in the Armed Services Committee, the committee that is supposed to have the most knowledgeable people on national defense. 
   Again, there are really some of the most interesting arguments I have ever heard. We save money by not closing bases. That is an interesting argument. Again, I wish we had never closed a base after World War II, using that logic. Or perhaps we should build more bases. The fact is that this causes discomfort to towns, communities, and States around the country when a base closing commission is appointed. I agree with that. I am sorry that happens. I stack that discomfort up against the fact that we still have 11,000 enlisted men and women on food stamps. 
   I hope we will have the American people at least weigh in on this issue, because they understand. They get it. They get what is going on here. They get why we are not having a base closing round when we need it. They know why it is being done. It will not pass but for one simple reason; that is, strictly parochial concerns that somehow there may be some political backlash associated with the closure of a base. I find that disgraceful. 
   I appeal again to the better angels of our nature, and recognize that every military expert within the military establishment, both within the Government and without, says that we need to close bases. We need to have a base closing round, and we do not have to make it political. 
   We have put in every possible constraint to prevent there being so many. We need to do it soon. Otherwise, we will continue to suffer in our capability. We will continue to suffer in our readiness. We will continue to suffer in our modernization. But most of all, these brave young men and women who serve our country will be shortchanged because we will not have adequate funds. 
   I know a lot of these young people do not vote. I know a 
   lot of them don't even get absentee ballots. Many of them are stationed far away. But I think perhaps we ought to have concern about them in how these funds can improve their lives and keep many of them in the military and keep our Nation ready to defend itself. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield such time as he may consume to the Senator from Rhode Island. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator yield? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If the Senator doesn't like the fact that it upsets the communities but believes that we need to close bases, does the Senator have another solution? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. May I just say with all due respect, if I may, the amendment calls for a base closing commission to be appointed in May of 2001. The election takes place in November of the year 2000, as I seem to recollect; some 5 or 6 months later is when the commission is appointed. 
   The logic of the Senator from Virginia, in all due respect to my chairman, escapes me. There will be a new President of the United States, there will be a new Secretary of Defense. Obviously, the chairman doesn't trust or have confidence in the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, both of whom sent over compelling statements and letters. So if it is a new President that you want, there will be a new President. 
   If I get this right, what the distinguished chairman is saying is that we will just put everything on hold for a year or two until we get a new President, then we can start a process?  
   This amendment says there will be a new President, there will be a new Secretary of Defense, there will be a new Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as a matter of fact, and that is what this amendment contemplates. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The Senator has a strange way of displaying that confidence if you don't agree with his primary and most important recommendation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. In all due respect to my friend from Virginia, he knows where that California and Texas thing came from. It didn't come from the bowels of the Pentagon; it came from the White House. That is why, as he knows, we are saying this Commission should only convene after there is a new President of the United States. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Could I ask my friend from Virginia, would he agree to an amendment which had the base closing round begin in the year 2002? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask my friend---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that we continue this colloquy and maybe, to make the sides even, the Senator from Maine would like to engage us as well. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. There would be no movement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Rhode Island for the very strong and, I think, thoughtful statement. He is a much valued member of the committee. I appreciate his efforts in this area. 
   I do not like to belabor my old and dear friend, the former Secretary of the Navy and chairman of the committee. Our respect and friendship is mutual. It has been there for many, many years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19990525</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank my friend from Virginia. 
   I do have to mention one other aspect of this issue that is important, and then I know the Senator from Maine has been patiently waiting. 
   We do have a credibility problem here. We are asking these young people to do without. Some of them right now are in harm's way. We ask them to spend time in the middle of the desert and the middle of Bosnia under very difficult, sometimes nearly intolerable conditions. We have an Air Force that is half the size of what it was at the time of Desert Storm, and it has four times the commitments. We simply do not have a military that we can sustain under the present conditions. 
   If we are not willing to make a sacrifice of the possibility of a base closure in our home State, how in the world can we ask these young people to risk their lives? This is an issue of credibility. If we are going to make the kind of changes necessary to restructure the military, there are going to have to be some very tough decisions made. Base closing is just one of them. But if we cannot even make a decision to have a base closing commission, on the recommendation of every expert inside and outside the defense establishment of the United States of America, then I do not think we have any credibility in other decisions that the committee or the Senate will make. 
   I realize that bases are at risk. I realize there can be economic dislocation. I recommend and I recognize all those aspects of a base closing commission. But for us to tell these young men and women, whom we are asking to sacrifice and take risks, that we will not take the political risk of approving the base of the base closing commission that would convene under the tenure of the next President of the United States under the most fair and objective process that we know how to shape, then, Mr. President, we deserve neither our credibility with them nor their trust. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, 
   as a former Member of Congress once said, ``Every disaster is an opportunity.'' This bill proves that statement remains true today. 
   Scattered throughout this bill, which was supposed to be for emergencies only, is more than $1.2 billion in non-emergency, garden-variety, pork-barrel spending. When the Senate passed this bill just two months ago, I could find only $85 million in low-priority, unnecessary, or wasteful spending. By the time the conferees were done with it, the waste had grown by a factor of 14-14 times more pork-barrel spending was deemed worthy of inclusion in this conference bill. 
   Mr. President, I have compiled a list of the numerous add-ons earmarks, and special exemptions in this bill. Now, I know that some of these programs may well prove meritorious, but there is no  way for us to determine their merit because the process for doing so has been circumvented in this bill. 
   For example, the bill contains $1.5 million to purchase water to maintain sufficient water levels for fish and wildlife purposes at San Carlos Lake in Arizona, and an earmark of $750,000 for the Southwest Border anti-drug efforts. I know that these are important programs, but are they the most important programs in my state? The process by which these two earmarks were added in conference on this bill makes it impossible to assess the relative merit of these programs against all other priority needs in Arizona and across the nation. 
   The normal merit-based review process, which requires authorization and appropriation, was not followed, and these programs were simply added to this so-called ``emergency'' bill. The usual ``checks and balances'' were just thrown out the window. 
   Once again, I have to object to including programs in appropriations bills that have not been authorized. The Commerce Committee has jurisdiction over the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Yet, without even seeking, much less obtaining authorization from the Commerce Committee, the appropriations put $38 million in this bill for the CPB to buy a new satellite. I have raised this issue before. There is a good reason for the two-tiered process that requires an authorization before appropriating any money for a program--to eliminate unnecessary or low-priority spending of taxpayer dollars. That process clearly was circumvented in this bill. 
   This bill contains the usual earmarks for specific amounts of money of special-interest projects, such as: 
   An emergency earmark of $26 million to compensate Dungeness crab fisherman, fish processors, fishing crew members, communities and others negatively affected by restrictions on fishing in Glacier Bay National Park in Alaska. 
   Emergency earmarks of $3.7 million for a House page dorm and $1.8 million for renovations in the O'Neill House Office Building, which were added in conference. 
   $3 million earmarked for water infrastructure needs at Grand Isle, Louisiana, again added in conference. 
   An emergency infusion of $70 million into the livestock assistance program, which is redefined to include reindeer. 
   Mr. President, I am sure that Santa Clause is happy today although even he would blush not only at the process but the amount of money that is included in this legislation. 
   Then there are the many objectionable provisions that have no direct monetary effect on the bill, but you can be sure there is a financial benefit to someone back home. For example: 
   Apparently, last year when we added millions of dollars to help maple producers replace taps damaged in ice storms in the Northeast, we added a bit too much money. This bill directs that leftover money be used for restoration of stream banks and maybe repairing fire damage in Nebraska. 
   The media has reported extensively on a provision (which was added in conference) allowing the Crown Jewel mine project in Washington State to deposit mining waste on more than the five acres surrounding the mine than is currently permitted. What hasn't been reported is that this language also reverses for several months any earlier permit denials for any other mining operations that were denied based on the five-acre millsite limit. 
   The bill contains language making permanent the prohibition on new fishing vessels participating in herring and mackerel fishing in the Atlantic--a protectionist policy that was slipped in last year's bill and is now, apparently, going to become permanent. 
   The bill contains another provision that provides a special, lifetime exemption from vessel length limitations for a fishing vessel that is currently operating in the Gulf of Mexico or along the south Atlantic Coast fishing for menhaden--an issue that should be dealt with by the authorizing committee, the Commerce Committee. 
   The report directs that three facilities be built to house non-returnable criminal aliens in the custody of the INS--facilities which are much-needed--but then the conferees decided to go one step further and direct that one facility had to be built in the mid-Atlantic region. 
   Last year's 1999 Transportation appropriations bill earmarked funding for a feasibility study for commuter rail service in the Cleveland-Akron-Canton area, and the conference report expands on the use of those funds to allow purchase of rights-of-way for a rail project before the feasibility of the project has even been determined. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to express my strong support for the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1999. I would like to commend Senator SNOWE, the Chair of the Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans and Fisheries, for her leadership on Coast Guard issues. Earlier in the year, Senator SNOWE convened a hearing on the Coast Guard's fiscal year 2000 budget request. The Commandant of the Coast Guard testified at the hearing and explained the priorities and challenges that the Coast Guard will face in the coming years and the ways that the agency will handle them. 
   The Coast Guard is a branch of the armed forces and a multi-mission agency. The Coast Guard is responsible for our national defense, search and rescue services on our nation's waterways, maritime law enforcement, including drug interdiction and environmental protection, marine inspection, licensing, port safety and security, aids to navigation, waterways management, and boating safety. This bill will furnish the Coast Guard with funding authority to continue to provide the United States with high quality performance of its diverse duties through fiscal year 2001. I commend the men and women of the Coast Guard who serve their country with honor and distinction. 
   I believe the bill that we have introduced today is an important first step in providing authorizing legislation for the Coast Guard for fiscal years 2000-2001. The funding levels are currently based on the Administration's transmitted legislative proposal. However, I am particularly concerned about the Coast Guard's ability to continue to fight the war on drugs. The vast majority of drugs enter our country illegally after being transported over our waterways. As the primary maritime law enforcement agency, the Coast Guard has proven that it can effectively stop drugs from reaching our streets. In fiscal year 1998, the Coast Guard seized 82,623 pounds of cocaine and 31,365 pounds of marijuana. Campaign STEEL WEB, the comprehensive, multi-year strategy to fight the war on drugs deserves full support and funding from both the Administration and the Congress. Before the Commerce Committee concludes its consideration of this bill, I intend to determine whether the Administration's bill will provide an adequate level of funding for the Coast Guard's drug interdiction activities. I will also seek to ensure that funding is spent on the most effective drug interdiction programs. 
   The bill also incorporates several non-controversial provisions included in the Administration's bill which would provide for a variety of improvements for the day-to-day operation of the Coast Guard. I look forward to working with Senator SNOWE and other members of the Commerce Committee during the Senate's consideration of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1999. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be happy to accommodate the Senator from Nevada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I think my colleague for his work on this very sensitive but important subject. The senator is absolutely correct. With the passage of this bill, the issue of setting an appropriate signal reception standard and predictive model is more important than ever. Consumers are frustrated today by the current situation with distant network signals because they are being told by local broadcasters they must receive their local signals over-the-air, though in many cases 
   traditional antennas do not provide an adequate picture. If the law tells consumers they must get a local signal but they aren't able to get a decent picture, what alternative does a consumer have? Unfortunately, we are dealing here with an antiquated law that needs updating for the twenty first century. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I concur with your concerns over this situation. If we are going to enforce the law and enforce a standard, we need to make sure that consumers can rely on the standard. Today, that is clearly not the case. In addition, since the purpose of the bill before us today is to give satellite television the tools it needs to become more viable competitors to cable, we have to evaluate each of the ways in which cable and satellite are compared. For example, the viewing standard that you discussed is based on three ``grades'' of television picture--``fine,'' ``good,'' and ``acceptable,'' in descending order of quality. Currently, cable viewing standards are based on a ``good'' picture. Satellite's standard is ``acceptable,'' which is a grade below ``good.'' Why wouldn't we want the reception standards between these two competing industries to be equivalent? If we are to provide true competition between cable and satellite, an increase of the standard and a corresponding increase in signal intensity model is necessary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990520</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I can assure my colleague from Nevada, we will attempt to address this in conference and rectify a very troubling inconsistency in the law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990519</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation, cosponsored by Senators Bryan and Snowe, designed to stop the widespread anticonsumer telemarketing abuse known as ``slamming.'' Since virtually every consumer has either been ``slammed'' or knows someone who has, it's probably unnecessary to add that ``slamming'' is the practice whereby a consumer's chosen long-distance telephone company is changed without the consumer's knowledge or consent. Given the pervasiveness of this unscrupulous practice, it comes as no surprise that slamming has been the number one consumer complaint for the last several years. 
   This marks the third time I have introduced antislamming legislation. Last year a similar antislamming bill failed to become law when the legislative clock ran out before the House of Representatives acted, despite the fact that the bill incorporated a number of provisions that the House had insisted upon, and which the Senate believed weren't tough enough on slammers. 
   The reason I return today with a slamming bill is that, in the absence of legislation, the Federal Communications Commission adopted a set of antislamming rules that a reviewing court has now stayed. As a result, consumers are once again without the immediate prospect of any effective antislamming laws. This legislation is intended to provide some. 
   But there is also another reason for reintroducing antislamming legislation. The main reason the court stayed the FCC's antislamming rules is that the long-distance companies--the very companies who are responsible for slamming in the first place--asked the court to do so because of an alternative antislamming scheme these companies dreamed up and now want the FCC to implement. Pursuant to the long-distance companies' plan, the long-distance companies--they're the slammers, remember--would hire a supposedly independent ``third-party administrator'' who would handle enforcement of the antislamming rules instead of the FCC. Given the fact that virtually everyone other than the long-distance companies, including state enforcement authorities, are foursquare against this proposal, the long-distance companies' court strategy ups the ante on the FCC to cave in and adopt this obviously self-serving plan. 
   Not since the fox volunteered to watch the henhouse have we seen such a demonstration of solicitude for the well-being of the vulnerable. 
   There are many instances in which industry comes up with creative ways for government to deal with industry problems. This isn't one of them. 
   Let's call it what it is. This scheme is the latest manifestation of an ongoing effort by the long-distance companies to avoid having to face up to real penalties if they can't make their telemarketers stop slamming people. Their rhetoric deplores slamming, but their machinations before Congress and the FCC show otherwise. And if the FCC--the supposedly pro-consumer FCC--were to even flirt with the notion of embracing the long-distance industry's scheme, it would show, when push comes to shove, whose interests would really matter to this agency. 
   In a published court opinion, Judge Lawrence Silberman of the D.C. Court of Appeals referred to something else the FCC once did as being ``not just stupid--criminally stupid.'' Mr. President, it would be either criminal stupidity, or duplicity of the highest order, for the FCC to ignore the views of everyone except the big long-distance companies and adopt their blatantly anticonsumer plan. 
   As I said when I introduced the similar legislation last October, this bill isn't perfect--it contains provisions generated by the House of Representatives, that I consider much too slammer-friendly. But it's still a lot better than the industry-promoted alternative. And so I offer to better protect consumers and to send the FCC the message that it's their duty to do the same. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, this morning the Senate will resume debate on the motion to proceed to the Y2K legislation. At 9:45 this morning the Senate will proceed to a rollcall vote on invoking cloture on the motion to proceed to that bill. If cloture is invoked, debate will continue on the motion to proceed. If cloture is not invoked, the Senate will begin a period of morning business for 1 hour under the control of Senator HELMS to commemorate the life of Admiral Bud Nance. 
   Attempts to come to a reasonable time agreement to finish the juvenile justice bill will be made during today's session of the Senate. However, until such an agreement is made, the Senate will resume debate on the motion to proceed to the Y2K bill. As a reminder, the Senate will recess for the weekly party caucus luncheons from 12:30 to 2:15. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Chair. 
   In about 10 minutes, we are going to have another vote on cloture so that we can proceed to the very important Y2K liability bill, S. 96. The word is out that the Democrats will now again refuse to move forward with passage of this legislation. Last time, the excuse was, as I understand it from the Democrat leader's remarks, that they were not allowed to propose amendments to the pending legislation so this was some form of protest. Now I am told the excuse will be--and we will find out--because the juvenile justice bill has not been completed. 
   The entertaining aspect of that rationale is that while complaining about not being able to move forward on the juvenile justice bill, they still won't agree to amendments and time agreements so we could dispose of the juvenile justice bill. 
   What this is really all about is that there is a strong aversion on the part of the American Trial Lawyers Association to this legislation. That aversion is manifesting itself by preventing us from moving forward with this very important legislation. 
   Small, medium, and large businesses in America, high-tech firms all over America, have written or contacted us as to the importance of this legislation. I recently received a letter signed by some 130 high-tech companies in America. I would like to read it. 
   This is from the Year 2000 Coalition. Actually, this letter was addressed to Senator KERRY, not to me. It says:  
   The Year 2000 Coalition, a broad-based multi-industry business group, is committed to working with the Senate to enact meaningful Y2K liability legislation. We fully support S. 96 sponsored by Senator McCain, with amendments and revisions agreed to by Senators Wyden, Dodd, Hatch, Feinstein and Bennett, as the most reasonable approach to curtail unwarranted and frivolous litigation that might occur as a result of the century date change. 
   While we appreciate any effort that further demonstrates the bipartisan recognition of the need for legislation, the Coalition does not support the Y2K bill that is being circulated in your name and believes it detracts from the sponsors of S. 96 effort to build support for their bill. We urge you to support S. 96 that is now pending before the Senate. Your vote in favor of cloture is important to bring the bill to the floor and allow the Senate to address the challenge of Y2K confronting all Americans. A vote in favor of S.  96 is a vote in favor of Y2K remediation instead of litigation.  
   A very impressive list of, I believe, 130 companies and corporations around America, a pretty impressive group of corporations that, I would say, represents a substantial portion of America's economy, that is concerned about this issue and wants us to move forward. 
   I had honestly believed that after the demonstration of solidarity last week on this issue on the part of my friends and colleagues on the other side of the aisle--I took the Democrat leader at his word. He said we will move forward; we will have a bill; we want to work together on this. 
   Apparently, that is not going to be the case this morning. If it is not the case, then, obviously, I will do whatever the majority leader dictates as to what the Senate calendar will be. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the letter to Senator KERRY from the Year 2000 Coalition and the letter to me be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will have more to say after the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am amused and entertained by the remarks of the Democrat leader. All he has to do is agree to a time and date when the final passage of the juvenile justice bill would be voted on. He knows it. I know it. We know it. 
   He is using the same excuse he used last time--almost exactly--that he would move forward with the bill and we would have final passage. I congratulate him on his rhetoric. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990518</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank my dear friend from North Carolina for the love and friendship he bestowed on Bud Nance for many, many years. It is a rare thing--the relationship that existed between my dear friend from North Carolina and Adm. Bud Nance. It was a relationship characterized by mutual respect, political courage, and love and affection, which is, as the previous speaker mentioned, somewhat rare in this town--although not as rare as some would think. 
   Bud Nance was not only a friend of my father's, he also served under my grandfather in World War II. Mr. President, there is a book that has been No. 1 on the best seller list for a long time. The title of that book is ``The Greatest Generation,'' written by Tom Brokaw, a man known to all of us. It is one of the more moving books I have read in  a long time. It chronicles the personal experiences of those of the generation that fought and won World War II and, indeed, did make the world safe for democracy. It contains very moving stories. The impact of those stories gives us a renewed and indeed, perhaps, an unappreciated recognition of the service and sacrifice of that generation, what they went through, what they achieved, and the reality that they really did make not only the world safe for democracy, but make it possible for future generations to live much better lives in a broad variety of ways. 
   Bud Nance was of the greatest generation and he was one of the greatest Americans to serve in the greatest generation. In fact, his service spanned three wars, and in all of them he served with distinction and courage. 
   I believe that Bud Nance epitomized in the Senate all the best we see in people who serve the Nation. Unfailingly courteous, always considerate to others, he took into consideration with equal weight and gravity the views of those on the other side of the aisle. And although perhaps in disagreement, he always treated those views with the respect and consideration they deserved. 
   Obviously, as has been mentioned, the relationship between the two men was remarkable and unusual. But it was also remarkable and unusual that, in all the years that I saw Bud Nance here, never once did I see him lose patience with anyone. His courtesy was unfailing, and, frankly, he represented what we know of as the greatest generation in more ways than just having served in combat and risked his life for his country in three wars. 
   Mr. President, when I think of Bud Nance, as I always have, as we not only mourn his passing but celebrate his life, I could not help but be reminded of what is one of my favorite poems, written by Robert Louis Stevenson, who also had an incredibly unusual life of adventure, with great and vast experiences and great contributions. Robert Louis Stevenson wrote a poem that he wrote for his own epitaph called ``Requiem,'' which I believe also fits our dear friend, Bud Nance. 
   The poem is a very simple one:  
   Under the wide and starry sky. 
   Dig the grave and let me lie. 
   Glad did I live and gladly die. 
   And I laid me down with a will.  
   This be the verse you gave for me: 
   Here he lies where he longed to be; 
   Home is a sailor, home from the sea. 
   And the hunter home from the hill.  
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Will the Senator yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Isn't it true that it has been brought to the attention of all that there is a loophole that needs to be closed and this is a good-faith effort to do that? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Isn't it also true---- 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed 3 minutes to question the Senator from Utah. 
   Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Do you object or not object? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I repeat my unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990514</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I withdraw my unanimous consent. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, following the disposition of those amendments, is it then your intention to move to a Hatch-Craig amendment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that we move to the Hatch-Craig amendment immediately following the disposition of those amendments. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Then I object to the unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from Utah, Mr. HATCH, for his stewardship and his incredible efforts today on this issue. This package and this amendment that I intend to address briefly would not  have been possible without his effort. I thank also Senator CRAIG and my colleagues, Senators SMITH, COLLINS, SNOWE, ABRAHAM and many others who have taken an active role in this legislation today that would establish background checks in a manner which is fair and workable. 
   To start with, I want to point out that this amendment closes a loophole, and it requires instant background checks at all events at which at least 10 exhibitors are selling firearms, or at least 20 percent of the exhibitors are selling guns. This prevents any sale of a gun or a weapon at one of these shows without an instant background check. That is the effect of this amendment. 
   Specific language says a person not licensed under this section desiring to transfer a firearm at a gun show in his State of residence to another person who is a resident of the same State and not licensed under this section:  
   Shall only make such a transfer through a licensee who can conduct an instant background check at the gun show or directly to the perspective transferee if an instant background check is first conducted by a special registrant at the gun show on a perspective transferee.  
   These background checks must be completed within 24 hours. This is not an overly burdensome requirement in the face of the Columbine High School tragedy; rather, it is a responsible means 
   of lessening the likelihood of unlawful gun purchases. I believe this is something every Member of the Senate should be able to support. 
   It is my understanding this amendment has been cleared by every Member on this side of the aisle. I hope it will be cleared by Members on the other side. If they desire a rollcall vote on this, that would be fine. I think it should receive the unanimous support that it deserves. 
   I repeat one more time: This now provides for instant background checks at gun shows, and it effectively closes a loophole that was created. I am very appreciative of the Senator from Idaho for his cooperation in closing this loophole. It is a very strongly held belief on his part. I think he showed great statesmanship today. 
   I thank so many of my colleagues under the leadership of Senator HATCH, Senator COLLINS, Senator SNOWE, and especially my friend from Oregon, Senator GORDON SMITH. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Regular order, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to table the pending amendment, and I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990513</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce The Internet Regulatory Freedom Act of 1999. This legislation will help assure that the enormous benefits of advanced telecommunications services are accessible to all Americans, no matter where they live, what they do, or how much they earn. 
   Advanced telecommunications is a critical component of our economic and social well-being. Information technology now accounts for over one-third of our economic growth. The estimates are that advanced, high-speed Internet services, once fully deployed, will grow to a $150 billion a year market. 
   What this means is simple: Americans with access to high-speed Internet service will get the best of what the Internet has to offer in the way of on-line commerce, advanced interactive educational services, telemedicine, telecommuting, and video-on-demand. But what it also means is that Americans who don't have access to high-speed Internet service won't enjoy these same advantages. 
   Mr. President, Congress cannot stand idly by and allow that to happen. 
   Advanced high-speed data service finally gives us the means to assure that all Americans really are given a fair shake in terms of economic, social, and educational opportunities. Information Age telecommunications can serve as a great equalizer, eliminating the disadvantages of geographic isolation and socioeconomic status that have carried over from the Industrial Age. But unless these services are available to all Americans on fair and affordable terms, Industrial Age disadvantages will be perpetuated, not eliminated, in the Information Age. 
   As things now stand, however, the availability of advanced high-speed data service on fair and affordable terms is seriously threatened. Currently, only 2 percent of all American homes are served by networks capable of providing high-speed data service. Of this tiny number, most get high-speed Internet access through cable modems. This is a comparatively costly service --about $500 per year --and most cable modem subscribers are unable to use their own Internet service provider unless they also buy the same service from the cable system's own Internet service provider. This arrangement puts high-speed Internet service beyond the reach of Americans not served by cable service, and limits the choices available to those who are. 
   If this situation is allowed to continue, many Americans who live in remote areas or who don't make a lot of money won't get high-speed Internet service anywhere near as fast as others will. And, given how critical high-speed data service is becoming to virtually every segment of our everyday lives, creating advanced Internet ``haves'' and ``have nots'' will perpetuate the very social inequalities that our laws otherwise seek to eliminate. 
   This need not happen. Our nation's local telephone company lines go to almost every home in America, and local telephone companies are ready and willing to upgrade them to provide advanced high-speed data service. 
   They are ready and willing, Mr. President, but they are not able--at least, not as fully able as the cable companies are. That's because the local telephone companies operate under unique legal and regulatory restrictions. These restrictions are designed  to limit their power in the local voice telephone market, but they are mistakenly being applied to the entirely different advanced data market. And as a result, their ability to build out these networks and offer these services is significantly circumscribed. 
   Mr. President, it's very expensive for to build high-speed data networks. Unnecessary regulation increases this already-steep cost and thereby limits the deployment of services to people and places that might otherwise receive them--and many of them are people and places that won't otherwise be served. This legislation will get rid of this unnecessary regulation, thereby facilitating the buildout of the advanced data networks necessary to give more Americans access to high-speed Internet service at a cheaper price and with a greater array of service possibilities. 
   That's called ``competition,'' Mr. President, and some people don't like it very much. AT&T, for example, owns cable TV giant TCI and its proprietary Internet service provider @Home. AT&T doesn't face the same regulatory restrictions as the telephone companies do, and AT&T will fight furiously to retain these restrictions so that it can continue to enjoy the ``first-move'' advantage it now has in the market for high-speed Internet service. So will other local telephone company competitors such as MCI/Worldcom, many of whom, like AT&T, prefer gaming the regulatory process to competing in the marketplace. 
   They're right about one thing, Mr. President--competition sure isn't nice. It's tough. Some companies win, and some companies lose. But the important thing to me is this: with competition, consumers win. 
   The 1996 Telecommunications Act effectively nationalized telephone industry competition. That's one of the many reasons I voted against it. As subsequent events have shown, the Act has been a complete and utter failure insofar as most Americans are concerned. All the average consumer has gotten are higher prices for many existing services, with little or no new competitive offerings. Most of the advantages have accrued to gigantic, constantly-merging telecommunications companies and the big business customers they serve. 
   Mr. President, we must not let this misguided law produce the same misbegotten results when it comes to making high-speed data services available and affordable to all Americans. The service is too important, and the stakes are too high. 
   Even the former Soviet Union managed to recognize that centralized planning was a flat failure, and abandoned it decades ago. It's time we started doing the same with centralized competition planning under the 1996 Act, and advanced data services are the best place to start. Unfettered competition, not federally-micromanaged regulation, is the best way of making sure that high-speed data services will be widely available and affordable. That's what I want, that's what consumers deserve, and that's what this legislation will do. 
   The first is the fact that the high-speed cable modem service being rolled out by AT&T on many of the nation's cable television systems favors its own proprietary Internet service provider, which limits consumer choice. Although AT&T's cable customers can access AOL or other Internet service providers of their own choice, they must first pass through, and pay for, AT&T's own Internet service provider, @Home. The fact that it typically costs around $500 a year to subscribe to @Home is a big disincentive to paying even more to access another service provider. 
   The second problem is every bit as troubling. Even though cable subscribers have only limited choice in accessing high-speed Internet service, 98 percent of Americans are even worse off, because they aren't served by any network that can carry high-speed Internet services. 
   Obviously, Mr. President, telephone networks serve almost everybody, and the large telephone companies very much want to convert their networks and make these services available to subscribers who might not otherwise get them, especially in rural and low-income areas, and also provide competitive alternatives for AT&T's cable modem subscribers. But, although AT&T can roll out cable modem service in a virtually regulation-free environment, federal regulation significantly impedes the ability of telephone companies to do the same thing. 
   Mr. President, this is blatantly unfair to the telephone companies--but that's not the worst of it. The benefits of business development, employment, and economic growth will go where the advanced data networks go. If these benefits go to urbanized, high-income areas first, the resulting disparities may well be difficult, if not impossible, to equalize. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I call up an amendment at the desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Utah and also the Senator from Idaho for allowing me this time. I don't think I will use as much as 7 minutes. At that time, I will withdraw my amendment upon the completion of my statement. 
   This amendment is designed to prevent juveniles from illegally accessing weapons and to punish those who would assist them in doing so. 
   This amendment provides that whoever illegally purchases a weapon for another individual, knowing that the recipient intends to use the weapon to commit a violent crime, may be imprisoned for up to 15 years. Further, the amendment mandates that whoever illegally purchases a weapon for a juvenile, knowing that the juvenile intends to commit a violent felony with the weapon, will receive a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years and may be imprisoned for up to 20 years. Current law provides a maximum prison term of 10 years, regardless of the age of the shooter. 
   Additionally, if a person transfers a handgun or ammunition to a juvenile knowing that the juvenile intends to  commit a violent felony, that individual will receive a minimum 10-year sentence and may be imprisoned up to 20 years. 
   Mr. President, as I just outlined, this amendment is very simple. The amendment targets the nexus of the youth gun violence issue. Despite the arguments of those who are pushing for more restrictive guns ownership laws, the fact is that the overwhelming majority of kids who are committing these violent acts are getting guns illegally. It is ludicrous to argue that gang members are going to gun shows or to Walmart to buy their weapons. For the most part, they are obtaining them illegally. 
   Recent events have shaken the collective conscience of this nation. The murders at Columbine High School in Colorado have again brought home to every American the degree to which we are failing our children. 
   The most basic and profound responsibility that our 
   culture--any culture--has is raising its children. We are failing in that responsibility, and the extent of our failure is being measured in the deaths and injuries of kids in schoolyards and on neighborhood streets. Over the past 2 years, we have been jolted time and again with the horrifying news and images of school shootings. Every day, in towns and cities across this country, kids are killing kids, and kids are killing adults in a spiraling pattern of youth violence driven by the drug trade, gang activity, and other factors. 
   Our children are killing each other, and they are killing themselves. We must act to change this. 
   Primary responsibility lies with families. As a country, we are not parenting our children. We are not adequately involving ourselves in our children's lives, the friends they hang out with, what they do with their time, and the problems they are struggling with. This is our job, our paramount responsibility, and we are failing. We must get our priorities straight, and that means putting our kids first. 
   However, parents need help. They need help because our homes, our families, and our children's minds are being flooded by a tide of violence. This dehumanizing violence pervades our society. Movies depict graphic violence, and children are taught to kill and maim by interactive video games. The Internet, which holds such tremendous potential, is used by some to communicate unimaginable hatred, images and descriptions of violence, and ``how-to'' manuals on everything from bomb construction to drugs. Our culture is dominated by media, and our children, more so than any other generation, are vulnerable to the images of violence and hate that are, sadly, the dominant themes in so much of what they see and hear. 
   I recently joined with some of my colleagues to call upon the President to convene an emergency summit of the leaders of the entertainment and interactive media industry to develop an action plan for controlling children's access to media violence. I am pleased that the President heeded this call. However, I am very disappointed that the President's summit proved to be heavy on symbolism and light on substance. We can do more. 
   I have also joined others to introduce legislation calling upon the Surgeon General to conduct a comprehensive study of media violence in all its forms, and to issue a report on its effects together with recommendations on how we can turn around the tragic tide of youth violence. 
   Further, yesterday, I, along with Senator LIEBERMAN and others, announced legislation that would establish a National Youth Violence Commission, consisting of religious leaders and experts in education, family psychology, law enforcement, and parenting, to produce a comprehensive study of the forces that are conspiring to turn our children into killers. 
   Combined, these measures--along with this legislation--are important steps targeting various aspects of the complex problem of youth violence. However, if we are to turn this tide, we must press the fight on every front. 
   One reality of the horrific schoolyard shootings, and the criminal gun violence that is so prevalent among our youth, is the illegal use of guns. The amendment I have offered is specifically targeted at the illegal means by which kids are acquiring guns. The extent of this problem is made acutely apparent by the events that unfolded in Littleton. From what we are told, 18 different gun laws were violated, including illegal straw purchases and transfers. 
   This amendment states simply that, if you know a kid is going to commit a violent felony, and you give him or her the gun to commit that crime, you are going to go to jail for a long time. 
   Mr. President, this amendment is not a panacea. As I have stated, the malady of youth violence that is eating at the soul of this Nation is a complex disease. It will require a multi-faceted cure. I believe we must push for a comprehensive approach. What we must have is the unqualified commitment of all Americans to raise our children, to put them first. 
   This amendment is one step--one necessary step that will help us deal with the problem of kids killing kids. I hope the Senate will adopt this amendment. 
   Mr. President, my understanding is that the distinguished manager of the bill has included this amendment in the package. I thank him for doing that. Therefore, it would be deemed unnecessary that this amendment be considered separately at this time. I thank the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary Committee for including this amendment in the package. 
   Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to withdraw the amendment at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, all Americans were disturbed and very sorry about NATO's mistaken bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. The President has apologized to the Chinese people, and it was, of course, appropriate for him to do so. I think it is also right that those responsible for this tragic error are held accountable for their mistake. I know that neither apologies nor other responses will alleviate the suffering of those who lost loved ones in the bombing. But America does sincerely regret what happened, and as inadequate as that might be to a grieving parent or spouse or friend, it will have to be enough for the Government of China. 
   It is outrageous that Beijing would claim, suggest or even hint to the Chinese people that the bombing was intentional. It was a mistake and the leaders of China know that. They do us and themselves a great disservice by pretending otherwise. States that aspire to be great powers should not indulge paranoid delusions as a means of motivating their people. The political consequences are seldom predictable or as easy to manage as they might have anticipated. 
   America and China have a complex, important, and very consequential relationship that will, in large part, shape the history of the next century. That relationship should not be jeopardized as cavalierly as Beijing has allowed it to be jeopardized over these last few days. 
   China must cease immediately fueling anti-Americanism and tolerating the attacks it engendered on our embassy and on Americans in China. China should cease immediately its calumnies against the United States. America is a just power, and the greatest force for good on Earth. A very regrettable accident does not change that historical fact, and Beijing knows it. Finally, China should cease immediately to threaten the other elements of our relationship, be they human rights discussions, anti-proliferation cooperation or trade agreements. A sound bilateral relationship is a vital interest for both of us, and, indeed, for the world. Both countries' leaders must conduct themselves with that priority in mind at all times. 
   China should accept our apology confident that it is sincere, and begin to play a constructive role in helping to persuade Milosevic that he must accede to the just demands of humanity, and the, I hope, nonnegotiable demands of NATO. 
   Terrible things happen in war. People often make bad mistakes in the fog of battle. That is why decent people try to avoid resolving their differences by force of arms. But that is not always possible. The enemy of peace and justice in the Balkans, Milosevic and his regime, are not decent people. They are the cause of this war, and, thus, are ultimately responsible for the tragedy that occurred last week, and the suffering of the people of Serbia. Furthermore, the calamity that Serbia is now experiencing, as awful as it is, in no way approximates the scale of the horror that has been visited on the Kosovars. Let us be clear about that, Mr. President. Should Mr. Milosevic observe the most basic standards of human decency no bombs would fall anywhere in the Balkans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990512</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to pay tribute to Ms. Arlene Sidell, who will soon be retiring from a long and distinguished career in the U.S. Senate. 
   Ms. Sidell is the Director of the Senate Commerce Committee Public Information Office. She first came to the Committee 36 years ago, in March of 1963. Ms. Sidell is an extraordinary public servant, who has consistently served all the Members and staff on the Committee with total dedication and commitment. 
   The Commerce Committee, at a recent Executive Session, expressed its gratitude to Ms. Sidell for all she has done for the Committee and the Senate with extended applause. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to be joined today by Senator GORDON SMITH as I submit a concurrent resolution to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Geneva Conventions of 1949. Fifty years ago the United States joined 187 nations in establishing in international law the four articles of the modern Geneva Convention. These articles are the pillars of international law regarding the treatment of uniformed sick and wounded, prisoners of war, and civilians in times of armed conflict. Their existence serves to constantly remind us of our responsibility to treat all victims of war with the dignity each of us deserves. 
   These Conventions recognize the International Committee of the Red Cross as an independent and neutral organization whose humanitarian mission is to protest and assist the victims of armed conflict. The International Red Cross is supported, in turn, by national societies such as the American Red Cross and the many other Red Cross and Red Crescent national agencies. Through the years, these organizations have worked tirelessly to bring relief to the suffering around the world whether due to natural disaster or human conflict. Their dedication and compassion have touched the lives of millions of people in all countries and are today at work in the Balkans, Africa, South America, and, tragically, in our own state of Oklahoma in response to the recent massive tornado. 
   I ask your support for this resolution that commemorates mankind's first major step to codify into international law the respect and dignity that we must foster for each other. The four articles of the Geneva Convention and the formation of the organizations flying the Red Cross and Red Crescent stand as milestones in humanity's progress towards a more civilized world. With this resolution we recognize the historic and humanitarian significance of the Conventions and commend the Red Cross and Red Crescent agencies worldwide for their unflagging efforts to protect the principles of international humanitarian law.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the ``Youth Violence Prevention Act of 1999.'' This legislation will prevent juveniles from illegally accessing weapons and punish those who would assist them in doing so, prohibit juveniles who commit acts of gun violence from purchasing guns in the future, and punish juveniles who illegally carry or use handguns in schools. 
   Before I get into the particulars of the legislation, I would like to take a moment to discuss the broader issues surrounding the question of youth violence. 
   Recent events have shaken the collective conscience of our nation. The recent killings at Columbine High School in Colorado have brought home to every American the degree to which we are failing are children. 
   The most basic and profound responsibility that our culture--any culture--  has is raising its children. We are failing in that responsibility, and the extent of our failure is being measured in deaths and injuries of kids in schoolyards and on the streets of our neighborhoods and communities. 
   Over the past few years, we have been jolted time and again by the horrifying images of school shootings. Every day, in towns and cities across this country, kids are killing kids, and kids are killing adults, in a spiraling pattern of youth violence driven by the drug trade, gang activity, and other factors. 
   Primary responsibility lies with families. As a country, we are not parenting our children. We are not adequately involving ourselves in our children's lives, the friends they hang out with, what they do with their time, the problems they are struggling with. This is our job, our paramount responsibility, and we are failing. We must get our priorities straight, and that means putting our kids first. 
   Parents need help. They need help because our homes and our families, and our children's minds, are being flooded with a tide of violence that pervades our society. Movies depict graphic violence, and children are taught to kill and maim by interactive 
    video games. The Internet, which holds such tremendous potential in so many ways, is tragically used by some to communicate unimaginable hatred, images and descriptions of violence, and ``how-to'' manuals on everything from bomb construction to drugs. Our culture is dominated by media, and our children, more so than any generation before them, are vulnerable to the images of violence and hate that, unfortunately, are dominant themes in so much of what they see and hear. 
   I have recently joined with some of my colleagues to call upon the President to convene an emergency summit of the leaders of the entertainment and interactive media industry to develop an action plan for controlling children's access to media violence. I am pleased that the President has heeded this call and will convene such a summit next week. 
   I have also joined others in introducing legislation calling upon the Surgeon General to conduct a comprehensive study of media violence, in all its forms, and to issue a report on its effects, with recommendations on how we can turn around this tragic tide of youth violence. 
   These are important steps targeting various aspects of the complex problem of youth violence. However, we must press the fight on every front. One reality of the horrific gun violence that is so prevalent among our youth is the illegal use of guns. The legislation I am introducing today is specifically targeted at the illegal means by which kids are acquiring guns and is designed to ensure that violence youth offenders are punished, and that they will not acquire guns in the future. 
   First, the bill extends the provisions of the Gun Control Act that prohibit certain purchases to include juveniles. Currently, under federal law, a juvenile may commit multiple violent felonies, using a gun, and when he or she turns 18 years old, that same individual may walk into a gun store and legally purchase a weapon. This is absurd. This legislation would prevent them from doing so. Where a juvenile has committed an offense that would constitute a violent felony if he or she were an adult, that juvenile will be sentenced as an adult and will be ineligible to be paroled simply because they turn 18. 
   Second, this legislation provides that whoever illegally purchases a weapon for another individual, knowing that the recipient intends to commit a violent felony, may be imprisoned 
   up to 15 years. Further, whoever illegally purchases or transfers a weapon to a juvenile, knowing that the recipient intends to commit a violent felony, may be imprisoned up to 20 years. 
   Under this legislation, if a juvenile illegally possesses a handgun and violates the Gun Free School Zone law with the intent to carry, possess, discharge, or otherwise use the handgun or ammunition in the commission of a violent felony, they may be imprisoned for up to 20 years. 
   Mr. President, let me make very clear that this legislation in no way infringes on the Second Amendment rights to bear arms. I do not believe we should further restrict the rights of law-abiding Americans to own a gun. Rather, we should focus on halting the spread of violent crime and punishing violent criminals who abuse their Second Amendment rights. I believe it is imperative to better safeguard children from the dangerous effects of violent crime in America, as well as educate them on the potential danger of weapons. 
   Mr. President, this legislation is not a panacea. As I have stated, the malady of youth violence that is eating at the soul of this nation is a complex disease. It will require a multi-faceted cure. As I have outlined, I am pushing for a comprehensive approach. What we must have, if there is any hope, is the unqualified commitment of all Americans to raise our children, to put them first. I urge all Americans to get involved in their kids' lives. Ask questions, listen to their fears and concerns, their hopes and their dreams. 
   Childhood is a time of innocence, a time to teach discipline and values. Our children are our most precious gifts, they are full of innocence and hope. We must work together to preserve the sanctity of childhood. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990506</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Before we begin to consider items on today's agenda for our Executive Session, I would like to take a moment to acknowledge and extend my heartfelt thanks to Arlene Sidell. Arlene, sitting before us, is the Director of the Commerce Committee Public Information Office, and our official clerk for committee executive sessions. This will be the last time we will see Arlene at one of our mark-ups, as she will soon be retiring from an exemplary career in public service. 
   Arlene began her tenure with the Commerce Committee 36 years ago, in March of 1963. She has served the Senate and our Committee with distinction ever since, and will certainly be missed. Again, Arlene, please know how grateful I am for your dedication, commitment and tireless efforts on behalf of the Members, both past and present, of this Committee. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will vote for this resolution because I share in the happiness and relief that the families of Sergeant Ramirez, Sergeant Stone, and Specialist Gonzales, and all Americans feel now that these fine young men have been released from captivity. We are all thankful that they are home, safe from harm. 
   I do not believe, however, that private diplomacy that is at odds with our country's objectives in this war and public relations stunts by Mr. Milosevic deserve our praise. I cannot commend the participation of any American in his propaganda. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I report favorably the following nomination lists which were printed in the RECORDS of March 8, 1999 and April 15, 1999, at the end of the Senate proceedings, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar, that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to ask unanimous consent that Senator DORGAN be allowed to make a brief unanimous consent request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I also ask unanimous consent for 3 additional minutes, if necessary, for me to complete my statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senators LOTT and DASCHLE for allowing the Senate more time for this debate than was their original intention. I think it has been a good debate. It was not as long as I would have liked but better than I had expected yesterday morning. Many Members on both sides, or should I say on all the multiple sides of the question, have had the opportunity to express themselves  and most have done so with distinction. I also thank the cosponsors of the resolution for having the courage of their convictions, Senators HAGEL, BIDEN, LUGAR, KERRY, DODD, ROBB, and all the other cosponsors. You have made the case for the resolution far more persuasively than have I, and I commend you for fighting this good fight. 
   Mr. President, the Senate is not in order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990504</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I want to speak plainly in the few minutes remaining to me. What I say now may offend some people, even some of my friends who support this resolution. I am sorry for that, but I say it because I believe it is the truth, the important truth, and it should be said. 
   The President of the United States is prepared to lose a war rather than do the hard work, the politically risky work, of fighting as the leader of the greatest nation on Earth should fight when our interests and our values are imperiled. 
   We all know why in a few minutes this resolution is going to lose. It is going to lose because the President and members of his Cabinet have joined with the opponents to the war and lobbied hard for the resolution's defeat. Do not believe administration officials when they tell you that the resolution would have been defeated even without their active opposition. Had they worked half as hard in support of it as they did to defeat it, the result would have been different today. 
   No, it is not that they could not win; it is because they did not want to win that we are facing defeat this morning. That is a shame, a real shame. 
   I have said repeatedly that the President does not need this resolution to use all the force he deems necessary to achieve victory in Kosovo. I stand by that contention. And I 
   have the good company of the Constitution behind me. 
   I had wanted this resolution considered in the now forlorn hope that the President would take courage from it and find the resolve to do his duty, his duty by us, the American people, by the alliance he leads, and by the suffering people of Kosovo who now look to America and NATO for their very lives. 
   I was wrong, and I must accept the blame for that. The President does not want the power he possesses by law because the risks inherent in its exercise have paralyzed him. 
   Let me identify for my colleagues the price paid by Kosovars for the President's repeated and indefensible ruling out of ground troops. Mr. Milosevic was so certain of the limits to our commitment that he felt safe enough to widely disperse his forces. Instead of massing his forces to meet a possible ground attack, he has deployed them in small units to reach more towns and villages in less time than if the President had remained silent on the question of ground troops. In other words, he has been able to displace, rape, and murder more Kosovars more quickly than he could have if he feared he might face the mightiest army on Earth. That is a fact of this war that is undeniable. And shame on the President for creating it. 
   Now what is left to us, as our war on the cheap fails to achieve the objectives for which we went to war? Well, bombing pauses seem to be an idea in vogue. They were popular once before in another war. And I personally witnessed how effective they were. No, Mr. President, I do not have much regard for the diplomatic or military efficacy of bombing pauses. As a matter of fact, it was only when bombing pauses were finally abandoned in favor of sustained strategic bombing that almost 600 of my comrades and I received our freedom. I daresay some of the years that we had lost were attributable to bombing pauses. I will not support a bombing pause until Milosevic surrenders and not a moment before. 
   My father gave the order to send B-52s--planes that did not have the precision-guided munitions that so impress us all today--he gave the order to send them to bomb the city where his oldest son was held a prisoner of war. That is a pretty hard thing for a father to do, Mr. President, but he did it because it was his duty, and he would not shrink from it. He did it because he didn't believe America should lose a war, or settle for a draw or some lesser goal than it had sacrificed its young to achieve. He knew that leaders were expected to make hard choices in war. Would that the President had half that regard for the responsibilities of his office. 
   Give peace a chance. Yes, peace is a wonderful condition. Sweeter than many here will ever fully appreciate. The Kosovars appreciate it. They are living in its absence, and it is a horrible experience. But the absence of freedom is worse. They know that too. They know it well. And if the price of peace is that we abandon them to the cruelty of their oppressors, then the price is too high. 
   Some have suggested that we can drop our demand that NATO keep the peace in Kosovo. Let the U.N. command any future peacekeeping force instead. But a U.N. peacekeeping force led directly to the Srebrinica massacre in Bosnia. I think the Kosovars would rather they not have that kind of peace, Mr. President. And we should not impose it on them. 
   Give peace a chance. If we cannot keep our word to prevail over this inferior power that threatens our interests and our most cherished ideals, then it is unlikely that we will long know a real peace. We may enjoy a false peace for a brief time, but that will pass. Whatever your views about whether we were right or wrong to get involved in this war, why would you think that losing will recover what we have risked in the Balkans. If we fail to win this war, our allies and our enemies will lose their respect for our resolve and our power. You may count on it, Mr. President. And we will soon face far greater threats than we face today. We will know a much more dangerous absence of peace than we are experiencing today. 
   Mr. President, I ask my colleagues, in this late hour, to put aside our reservations, our past animosities, and encourage, implore, cajole, beg, shame this administration into doing its duty. Shame on the President if he persists in abdicating his responsibilities. But shame on us if we let him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, on behalf of the leader, I ask unanimous consent the time today for consideration of S.J. Res. 20 be for debate only. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am happy to yield to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Today, Mr. President, the Senate should begin a constructive, long overdue, and thorough debate on America's war with Serbia. But we will not. We will not because the Senate leadership, both Republican and Democrat, with the passive cooperation of the President of the United States, has determined that we will limit debate on war and peace to a few hours this afternoon. Apparently, the hard facts of war need not inconvenience the Senate at this time, and the solemn duties that war imposes on those of us privileged to lead this nation can be avoided indefinitely. 
   I heard my friend, the Democratic Leader, say the other day that now is not the time for this debate. When is the right time, Mr. President? After the war ends? Shall we wait to declare ourselves until the outcome is known? Shall those who oppose NATO's attack on Serbia wait until NATO's defeat is certain before voting their conscience? Shall those of us who believe American interests and values are now so at risk in the Balkans that they must be protected by all necessary force wait until victory is certain before voting our conscience? 
   I would hope not, Mr. President. For that would mean that we have allowed American pilots and, possibly, American soldiers to risk their lives for a cause that we will not risk our careers for. I think we are better people than that. I think we are a better institution than that. And I think we should use this debate to prove it. 
   All Senators should, for a start, use the opportunity provided by debate on this resolution to declare unequivocally their support or opposition for the war. Having declared their support or opposition, Senators should then endorse that course of action allowed Congress that logically and ethically corresponds to their views on the war. If Senators believe this war is worth fighting, then recognize that the President should exercise the authority vested in his office to use the power of the United States effectively to achieve victory as quickly as possible. 
   If Senators believe that this war is not worth the cost in blood and treasure necessary to win it, then take the only course open to you to prevent further bloodshed. Vote to refuse the funds necessary to prosecute it. Senators cannot say that they oppose the war, but support our pilots, and then allow our pilots to continue fighting a war that they believe cannot justify their loss. If the war is not worth fighting for, then it is not worth letting Americans die for it. 
   Last week, a majority in the other body sent just such a message to our servicemen and women, to the American public and to the world. They voted against the war and against withdrawing our forces. Such a contradictory position does little credit to Congress. Can we in the Senate not see our duty a little clearer? Can we not match our deeds to our words? 
   Should we meet our responsibilities honorably, we will not only have acted more forthrightly than the other body, we will have acted more forthrightly than has the President. The supporters of this resolution find ourselves defending the authority of the Presidency without the support of the President, a curious, but sadly, not unexpected position. 
   Opponents have observed that the resolution gives the President authority he has not asked for. They are correct. The President has not asked for this resolution. Indeed, it is quite evident that he shares the leadership's preference that the Senate not address this matter. But, in truth, he need not ask for this authority. He possesses it already, whether he wants it or not. 
   I cannot join my Republican friends in the other body by supporting the unconstitutional presumptions of the War Powers Act. Every Congress and every President since the act's inception has ignored it with good reason until now. We should have repealed the Act long ago, but that would have required us to surrender a little of the ambiguity that we find so useful in this city. Only Congress can declare war. But Congress cannot deny the President the ability to use force unless we refuse him the funds to do so. By taking neither aciton, Congress leaves the President free to prosecute this war to whatever extent he deems necessary. 
   Although I can speak only for myself, I believe the sponsors of this resolution offered it to encourage the President to do what almost every experienced statesmen has said he should do--prepare for the use of ground troops in Kosovo if they are necessary to achieve victory. Regrettably, the President owuld rather not be encouraged. But his irresponsibility does not excuse Congress'. I beleive it is now imperative that we pass this resolution to distinguish the powers of the Presidency from the muddled claim made upon them by the House of Representatives. 
   During the Foreign Relations Committee's consideration of this resolution, my friend, the Senator from Missouri, Senator ASHCROFT, criticized the wording as too broad a grant of authority to the President, and an infringement of congressional authority. How, Mr. President, can Congress 
   claim authority that it neither possesses constitutionally nor, as we see, cares to exercise even if we did possess it? No, Mr. President, the authority belongs to the President unless we deny it to him by means expressly identified in the Constitution. In short, and I welcome arguments to the contrary, only Congress can declare war but the President can wage one unless we deprive him of the means to do so. 
   Therefore, I feel it is urgent that the Senate contradict the actions of the other body and clarify to the public, and to America's allies and our enemies that the President may, indeed, wage this war. And, with our encouragement, he might wage this war more effectively than he has done thus far. If he does not, the shame is on him and not on us. 
   I regret to say that I have on more than one occasion suspected, as I suspect today, that the President and some of us among the loyal opposition suffer from the same failing. It seems to me that the President, in his poll driven approach to his every responsibility, fails to distinguish the office he holds from himself. And some of us in Congress are so distrustful of the President that we feel obliged to damage the office in order to restrain the current occupant. Both sides have lost the ability to tell the office from the man. 
   Publicly and repeatedly ruling out ground troops may be smart politics according to the President's pollster, but it is inexcusably irresponsible leadership. In this determination to put politics over national security, the President even acquiesced to the other body's attempt to deprive him of his office's authority. He sent a letter promising that he would seek Congress' permission to introduce ground troops in the unlikely event he ever discovers the will to use them. 
   My Republican colleagues in the House, who sought to uphold a law that  I doubt any of them believed in before last week, should take greater care with an office that will prove vital to our security in the years ahead. President Clinton will not stand for re-election again. Twenty months from now we will have a new President. And whoever he or she is will need all the powers of the office to begin to repair the terrible damage that this President has done to the national security interests of the United States. 
   It is to avoid further damage to those interests and to the office of the President that I ask my colleagues to consider voting for this resolution. The irony that this resolution is being considered only because of a statute I oppose is not lost on me. But bad laws often produce unexpected irony along with their other, more damaging effects. So we have made what good use of it we can. 
   We are here beginning a debate that many did not want, and few will mind seeing disposed of quickly. In my opening comments, I know I have spoken provocatively. Although I believe my points are correct, I could have been a little more restrained in offering them. I was not because I hope it will encourage, perhaps incite is a better word, greater debate today than is contemplated by our leaders. I meant to offend no one, but if any took offense, I hope they will come to the floor to make their case. Let us have the kind of debate today that the matter we are considering surely deserves. 
   Mr. President, we are debating war. Not Bill Clinton's war. Not Madeleine Albright's war. America's war. It became America's war the moment the first American flew into harm's way to fight it. Nothing anyone can do will change that. If we lose this war, the entire country, and the world will suffer the consequences. Yes, the President would leave office with yet another mark against him. But he will not suffer this indignity alone. We will all be less secure. We will all be dishonored. 
   This is America's war, and we are America's elected leaders. As we speak, tens of thousands of Americans are ready to die if they must to win it. They risk their lives for us, and for the values that define our good Nation. Can we not risk our political fortunes for them? Don't they deserve more than a few hours of perfunctory and sparsely attended debate? They do, Mr. President, they deserve much better than that. 
   We might lose those vote and we might lose it badly. That would be a tragedy. But I would rather fight and lose, than not fight at all. I hope that an extended debate might persuade more Members to support the resolution. The resolution does not instruct the President to begin a ground war in Yugoslavia. Nor does it grant the President authority he does not already possess. Nor does it require the President to pursue additional objectives in the Balkans. But if Members would be more comfortable if those objectives and realities were expressed in the resolution than I am sure the sponsors would welcome amendments to that effect. 
   But even if a majority of Members can never be persuaded to support this resolution, let us all agree that a debate--an honest, extensive, responsible debate--is appropriate in these circumstances. Surely, our consciences are agreed on that. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, there is no division of time here. This is a unanimous consent agreement, that time today for consideration of S.J. Res. 20 be for debate only. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Thank you. I stand corrected. I appreciate the outstanding work of the Parliamentarian. 
   On behalf of the other side, I ask unanimous consent to allow Senator BYRD to speak for as long as he may deem necessary. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. May I ask, for planning purposes, how long the Senator from Minnesota plans to speak? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield such time to the Senator from Arkansas as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield myself 30 seconds to thank Senator HUTCHINSON for his principled stand and his articulation on his views. 
   I point out that former Secretary of State Eagleburger, who the Senator talked about in his remarks, has written a letter strongly supporting this resolution and urging the vote on it. I hope that he and other opponents of this resolution recognize that every former Secretary of State, every former Secretary of Defense, every former National Security Adviser, in both parties, support this resolution and support a strong vote on it. 
   I yield to the Senator from Nebraska such time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield such time as the Senator from Wisconsin may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I yield myself 60 seconds. 
   Madam President, I will next yield to Senator LUGAR for such time as he may consume. I tell my colleagues that the list I have after him is Senator BOXER for 10 minutes, Senator SPECTER for 15 minutes, Senator HUTCHISON of Texas for 30 minutes, Senator GORTON for 10 minutes. We also have requests from Senators SHELBY, INHOFE, DOMENICI, LIEBERMAN, BIDEN and KERRY of Massachusetts. I ask my colleagues to come over and get in the queue as they can. 
   Clearly, with that number of speakers, I think it would be both inappropriate and unfortunate if we had a tabling motion before every Senator who wishes to speak would be allowed to speak on this issue. I will strongly resist an effort to table before every Senator who wants to speak on this very important issue can do so. I remind my colleagues that in the case of the Persian Gulf resolution, there were two opposing resolutions, with two up-or-down votes, and a full day of debate. On Bosnia, there were opposing measures by Senators Dole and HUTCHISON of Texas, with separate up-and-down votes, and a full day of debate on final passage. We are not giving this resolution nearly the attention the previous resolutions got. 
   I yield such time as he may consume to the Senator from Indiana, Senator LUGAR. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent I be allowed to control the time until such time as an opponent of the resolution arrives. At that time, I will control the time for the proponents of the resolution, and at a later time a designee of the opponents of the resolution will be designated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield 15 minutes to the Senator from California. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield 15 minutes to the Senator from Pennsylvania. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I yield 30 minutes to the Senator from Texas, Senator HUTCHISON. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I ask that the Chair recognize the Senator from Washington for 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, for the information of my colleagues, Senator CHAFEE will be next for 10 minutes; Senator INHOFE for 30 minutes; Senator ROBB for 20 minutes; Senator LEAHY for 10 minutes; Senator BUNNING for 10 minutes; Senator DOMENICI for 10 minutes; Senator LANDRIEU for 5 minutes; Senator DORGAN for 10 minutes; Senator BIDEN for 30 minutes; Senator DURBIN for 10 minutes; Senator WARNER for 10 minutes; Senator NICKLES for 20 minutes; Senator KERRY of Massachusetts for 30 minutes; and Senator DODD for 15 minutes. 
   I make one additional comment. This resolution does not call for ground operations. This resolution calls for use of whatever force is necessary to bring this war to a conclusion. Those who portray this as a resolution that calls for ground operations simply mischaracterizes the resolution, and I believe I am owed, along with Senator BIDEN, the intellectual honesty to at least portray this resolution for what it is, which is a resolution to use whatever force is necessary, which is exactly the same resolution as the Persian Gulf war. 
   I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Rhode Island, Mr. CHAFEE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield 30 minutes to the Senator from Oklahoma, Mr. INHOFE. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I understand the distinguished chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator HELMS, is to be recognized for 5 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader. We have a different view of the meaning of this vote, but I do appreciate his allowing numerous Senators who wish to speak on this issue to speak this evening before the vote tomorrow. 
   I recognize Senator ROBB for 20 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Kentucky. Excuse me. I am sorry. I apologize to the Senator from Kentucky. The Senator from Vermont is next. I apologize to the Senator from Vermont. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Vermont and apologize for almost putting him out of order. The Senator from Kentucky wishes to speak for 10 minutes. I yield to him for that purpose. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I grant myself 3 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am grateful to those of my colleagues who  have come to the floor this afternoon to speak on our war with Serbia, and even those who have spoken in opposition to the pending resolution. 
   The role of the United States in the Balkans is obviously a matter of life and death, and surely deserves serious discussion in the Senate of the United States. So I thank those Senators who have recognized the importance of having this debate. 
   I want to respond briefly to a few of the points made in opposition to the resolution. First, the resolution gives too broad a grant of authority to the President. 
   As I observed earlier, the Presidency already has its authority. The Constitution gives Congress the sole right to declare war. It does not give us the right to declare peace unless we are asked to ratify a peace treaty, or if we refuse to appropriate money for the conduct of the war. That is the only peacemaking authority that we possess. 
   If this Senate does nothing, and it seems at the moment to be the Senate's preferred course of action, the President has the power to commit all armies to the conflict in Yugoslavia tomorrow, if he should suddenly decide to seek victory there. Unless we cut off the money, nothing but his own lack of resolve can stop him from doing whatever is necessary to win the war. 
   I offered the resolution not because I felt the President needed the authority but to encourage him to fight this war in a manner most likely to achieve our goals in Kosovo. 
   So, please, Mr. President, let us hear no more criticism that the sponsors have given too much power to the President. The Constitution wisely gave him that power long before any of us arrived on the scene. If the opponents want to prevent the President from exercising the full power of his office, and fighting this war as if the stakes are as high as he claims they are, then they should not vote for the supplemental appropriations bill that will soon be on the floor. Any Senator who supports the troops but opposes this war as unjust, unnecessary, unwise, and not in our interest should also vote against the supplemental bill. 
   Mr. President, you can't support the troops and permit them to be sent into a conflict that doesn't justify their sacrifice. Trust me. The troops would rather be spared that kind of support. 
   If you believe this war is worth fighting, or if you believe that, once begun, America's vital interests and most treasured values are imperiled in this war, then vote to encourage the President to do the right thing by our service men and women. Vote to implore him to fight to win this war as soon as possible so that what losses we do incur will not be in vain. Have no fear that our troops won't appreciate it. They will do their duty, and they will expect us to do ours. They will win this war for us, the alliance we led, the people of Kosovo and for the values of the distinguished America for all of our history. They will win this war if only their elected leaders allow them to. 
   Mr. President, I ask that the Senator from New Mexico be recognized for up to 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Same thing we were up to in the Persian Gulf resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I am intrigued at the prospect of exercising our constitutional responsibility through a letter to the President. 
   I yield 15 minutes to the Senator from Connecticut. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield 30 minutes to the Senator from Delaware, Senator BIDEN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. After Senator BIDEN is Senator KERRY, Senator WARNER, Senator NICKLES, Senator DURBIN, then Senator DORGAN, Senator LIEBERMAN, Senator CLELAND, Senator LEVIN, Senator HOLLINGS, and Senator BROWNBACK. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the Senator from Massachusetts, Mr. KERRY, be recognized for 15 minutes, followed by Senator BIDEN for 30 minutes, and the RECORD will show the incredible generosity of the Senator from Delaware, Mr. BIDEN, having allowed two--not one, but two--Senators to precede him. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask that Senator KERRY be 
   recognized for up to 30 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will my colleague yield for a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. What does my friend from Delaware make of the argument that this is not the right time, this is not the right time to vote on this? So we are going to table this motion tomorrow and a whole bunch of our colleagues are going to say--including, by the way, my dear friend from Virginia: Yes, this is a problem. It has only been going on for 5 weeks now. Hundreds of thousands of people have been moved from their homes, thousands have been killed, massacres every day--but this is not the right time to vote on this particular issue. So we will vote tomorrow to table it and cut off debate and cut off 
   discussion and abrogate the responsibilities that we have as Senators. 
   Frankly, does my friend think that maybe they know better? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Will the Senator yield for one more question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I believe I was asking a question. I do not believe the Senator from Virginia has the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent for 2 additional minutes for Senator BIDEN--excuse me--I grant Senator BIDEN 3 additional minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. The White House, the National Security Adviser, the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State are now frantically lobbying against this resolution, who are saying vote to table. Has my colleague ever heard of a time where the White House and the administration lobbied actively against obtaining more authority? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, with apologies and respect to my colleague from Virginia for going over time, I yield 15 minutes to the Senator from Virginia, Senator WARNER. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will be brief in my response. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield myself 1 minute to respond to the question from Senator WARNER. 
   This is exactly the same as the authority that was granted to the President in the case of Bosnia, in the case of the Persian Gulf war, in the case of going all the way back to Beirut, exactly the same thing: Telling the President of the United States that Congress does play a role. 
   We ignore the War Powers Act. We all know that. This is not a war in the classic sense, and we do not declare wars. This is a role for the Congress of the United States to play, endorsing the President's ability to use whatever force is necessary in order to bring the conflict to a conclusion. It is no different than that of the Persian Gulf war resolution, the Bosnia resolution, the Lebanon resolution, the Grenada resolution--there has been literally one in every conflict in which we have engaged. 
   Finally, may I say that it is also an effort, frankly, to get the President of the United States to do the right thing. 
   I yield my time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield 2 minutes to the Senator from Delaware to respond. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I have to call for the regular order here. The Senator from Virginia has 10 minutes, and the Senator from Oklahoma and others are waiting. So we have to proceed with the regular order. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I decline to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank Senator WARNER for his always insightful and well-thought-out debate and discussion. We appreciate his outstanding work as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
   The Senator from Oklahoma is recognized for 20 minutes. 
   Mr. NICKLES addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-18-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Oklahoma. I appreciate his involvement, and deep involvement, in this issue. I respect his views. 
   I yield 10 minutes to the Senator from Illinois, Senator DURBIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-19-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I have no objection. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-20-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I yield 15 minutes to the Senator from Connecticut, Senator LIEBERMAN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-21-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield 3 additional minutes to the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-22-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I continue to be pleased and proud of the Senator from Connecticut for his intellect, his insight, and his courage. I thank him for his remarks tonight, but also his steadfast adherence to lessons of history. May I point out that he is joined in his views by former Secretary of State Eagleburger, former National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, former Secretary of Defense Weinberger, former Secretary of State Warren Christopher, and a broad array of other leaders who have led this country throughout the last three decades. I am proud Senator LIEBERMAN is one of those as well. 
   I yield 10 minutes to my dear and beloved friend from Georgia, Senator CLELAND. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-23-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Georgia for his always very perceptive and enlightening debates. 
   I yield the Senator from Michigan, Mr. LEVIN, 10 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-24-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank my friend, the Senator from Michigan. May I just point out, he made the point that it took a month or two to get the Apaches there. The reason I am urging that preparations be made in case we have to exercise the option is exactly the reason he stated concerning the Apaches. It would take 6 to 8 weeks now for us to assemble ground forces if we decide to use the option. 
   I am told by some military experts that we now have to worry about the onset of bad weather in the fall, but I do appreciate the remarks of the Senator from Michigan, and I appreciate the results of his trip that he made and the information that he brought back, which I think was very helpful to the entire Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-25-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I note the belated appearance of my dear friend from Kansas. I yield him however much time he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-26-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, may I say to my dear young friend, who I see as one of the rising stars in this Senate--and I can say that with confidence because I have watched very closely, as a member of the Commerce Committee, his involvement with a number of issues--I respect his dissatisfaction with the failure to get an answer to certain fundamental questions that he and, frankly, the people of Kansas and of this country have a right to get the answers to. I understand his position on this issue, and I am in deep sympathy with it. 
   He makes a compelling case that we should be better informed before we embark on a ground war or consider the likelihood of a ground war. I appreciate his views. The realities on the battlefield, I say to my friend from Kansas, are that it requires a minimum of 6 to 8 weeks to get some forces assembled. So if we don't begin preparations--and I am not saying we would  have to use them, but it is of the utmost importance that we do that; otherwise, we will lose the opportunity. 
   A person that Senator BROWNBACK and I respect enormously, Henry Kissinger, the former Secretary of State, testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee last week. I quote him saying:  
   On the issue of ground forces, my view is as follows: I have no way of judging what will ultimately be necessary. That is a military decision. But first, it is a mistake to preclude any category of forces and to turn the conflict into an endurance contest. 
   Secondly, even if one believes that air power will ultimately succeed, which it well may, we nevertheless should make clear not only that we are planning to use ground forces; we should assemble the ground forces that will be needed. This will put a safety net under the bombing campaign because under present circumstances, it is a question of endurance. Thus, Milosevic and the Serbian leadership believe that they can simply outlast us. 
   If they know that at the end--not even at the end, at some stage in this process--we will insist on using ground forces, I think it will shorten the air campaign.  
   That was the testimony last week of Dr. Kissinger before the Armed Services Committee. I know of no wiser man than Henry Kissinger, a person who has a great appreciation for history and its challenges. 
   Because of our failure to even plan, much less prepare ground forces, as Dr. Kissinger, Larry Eagleburger, Brent Scowcroft, et cetera, seek us to do, this gives rise to articles such as were in the New York Times this morning by William Safire. William Safire, who I think is one of the most thoughtful and informed columnists in America, states:  
   Congress is not only ambivalent about buying into ``Clinton's War,'' it is also of two minds about being ambivalent. 
   That is because the war to make Kosovo safe for Kosovars is a war without an entrance strategy. By its unwillingness to enter Serbian territory to stop the killing at the start, NATO conceded defeat. The bombing is simply intended to coerce the Serbian leader to give up at the negotiating table all he has won on the killing field. He won't. 
   He will make a deal. By urging that Russia be the broker, Clinton knows he can do no better than compromise with criminality. That means we are not fighting to win, but are merely punishing to settle. 
   *.*.* Clinton has so few followers in Congress because he is himself the world's leading follower. He steers not by the compass but by the telltale, driven by polls that dictate both how far he can go and how little he can get away with. 
   The real debate, then, is not intervention vs. isolation, not sanctity of borders vs. self-determination of nations, not Munich vs. Vietnam, not NATO credibility vs. America the globocop. The central question is: Do we trust this President to use all force necessary to establish the principle that no nation can drive out an unwanted people?  
   It goes on, Mr. President, in this article to describe exactly the deal that will be cut over time.  
   *.*.* Perhaps Britain's Tony Blair will prod Clinton to do better, and all Serbian troops and paramilitary thugs will be invited out of Kosovo. But the returning K.L.A will find mass graves and will likely lash out at Serbs; after an indecent interval, Belgrade will assert sovereignty with troops in police uniforms. 
   And what will happen to the principle of no reward for internal aggression? It will be left for resolution to our next President, who, in another test, will have the strength of the people's trust.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-27-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Finally, Mr. President, a person that I know the Senator from Kansas and I and the Senator from Illinois have enjoyed and appreciated over many years, Margaret Thatcher, who once counseled during the Persian Gulf war for President Bush not to ``go wobbly''--I believe she said, ``Don't go wobbly now, George''--made a speech the other night for ``Project for the New American Century.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-28-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Those are Margaret Thatcher's remarks. They were delivered at the Institute for Free Enterprise on the 20th anniversary of her becoming Great Britain's Prime Minister. 
   I hope that all of my colleagues before voting tomorrow will read her remarks--Brent Scowcroft, Lawrence Eagleburger, and virtually every person who has held a position of authority on national security matters, both Republican and Democrat, for more than two decades. 
   Mr. President, the hour is late. I will move to the closing remarks in just a moment. 
   We have had a good debate today. I wish it had been longer. I think it should go on for several more days. But it won't. 
   Tomorrow we will have a tabling motion which may be one of the more bizarre scenarios that I have seen in my 13 years here in the Senate, with an administration lobbying feverishly to defeat a resolution which gives it more authority. I have never seen that before in my years in the Senate. 
   I believe we could have carried this resolution if the administration had supported it. I can only conclude that the reason for it is that the President of the United States is more interested in his own Presidency than the institution of the Presidency. Mr. President, that is indeed a shame. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator HUTCHISON, Chairman of the Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee in the introducing the Maritime Administration Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000. 
   The bill was developed along with administration officials and provides a firm base to build on in coming weeks. While I do not fully agree with all aspects of this measure. I look forward to an open debate in formulating final legislation. 
   The bill authorizes appropriations for the Maritime Administration[MarAd] for fiscal year 2000 covering operations and training along with the loan guarantee program authorized by title XI of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936. MarAd's oversight of the operations of U.S. Government-suppored maritime promotion programs are as important toady as ever. With increasing pressure on our nation's military resources, MarAd's administration of the Martime Security Program provides an important link in insuring that our troops world wide receive essential supplies in a timely and efficient manor. 
   This bill will streamline several administrative processes associated with the Title XI Loan Guarantee Program. The measure provides the Secretary of Transportation with additional authority to secure loan guaranteed by allowing collateral collected to be held in the U.S. Treasury. This will not only save time and money associated with negotiating depository agreements but will provide greater security for tax payers funds appropriated for this program. 
   Further, the bill amends Title IX of the Merchant Marine At of 1936 to provide a waiver for eliminating the three year period bulk and breakbulk vessels newly registered under the U.S. flag must wait in order to carry government-impelled cargo; reauthorize the War Risk Insurance Program through June 30, 2005; reduces the requirement for an annual report to Congress by the Maritime Administration detailing its's activities to be a biennial report; and makes clear the ownership status of the vessel names the Jeremian O'Brien. 
   I am pleased that the Subcommittee is taking this action today and will join Senator HUTCHISON and the other sponsors in expeditiously moving this authorization through the legislative proceeds. 
   By Mr. SPECTER (by request): 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, May 4. I further ask that on Tuesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed to have expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. I further ask that, following the prayer, Senator MCCAIN be recognized for 5 minutes for a closing statement, with the majority leader recognized immediately following Senator MCCAIN. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that on Tuesday the Senate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. so that the weekly party caucus luncheons may take place. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene on Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. Following a brief statement by Senator MCCAIN, the majority leader will make a motion to table S.J. Res. 20. Therefore, Senators can expect the first rollcall vote of the day at approximately 9:35 a.m. If S.J. Res. 20 is tabled, the Senate will immediately begin debate on S. 900, the financial modernization bill, under the provisions agreed to this evening by unanimous consent. It is hoped that significant progress will be made on the banking bill. Therefore, Senators can expect further rollcall votes throughout Tuesday's session of the Senate. The Senate will recess for the weekly party caucus luncheons from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order. 
   There being no objection, the Senate, at 9:06 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, May 4, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak for an additional 7 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, before the Senator from Connecticut leaves the floor, I thank him for all of his efforts. We have engaged in intensive and sometimes emotional negotiation, and we have had a long relationship for many years. His contribution, no matter how this cloture vote comes out today, has been critical in moving this process forward. It has given me optimism that we will be able to resolve this issue. Without his involvement, we would not have the opportunities that I believe we will have in the future. 
   In my prepared statement, which I will make in just a minute, this issue is too important to just go away. I think the Senator from Connecticut knows that and the Senator from Oregon, who has played such a critical role, along with Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator HATCH, and others on this issue, know that. It is not going to go away. 
   What the Senator from Connecticut has done and the Senator from Oregon has done is move this process forward to where I believe we will be able to get it done, because it is too important for us to just say we cannot agree on it. I thank both my colleagues for all their efforts. 
   Mr. President, we are now at a critical time if we are to pass this bill. We have been attempting to debate and act on this matter for a week. We are about to have our second cloture vote as we crawl through the morass of Senate procedure. We have endured hours of quorum calls waiting for substantive discussion. We have heard at length the views of the ranking member, Senator HOLLINGS, in opposition to this bill. We have detoured from the bill to hear the minority's complaints about scheduling unrelated matters of interest to them. But now, Mr. President, we are about to have a critical vote. 
   This is a vote to allow us to complete action on this critical bill. This is a vote to cast aside the partisan procedural games and get on with the business of the nation. Important business, as the thousands of CEO's and business people from all segments of industry: high tech, accounting, insurance, retail, wholesale, large and small, who are actively supporting this bill will attest. The Y2K problem is not going away, nor is it going to be postponed by petty, partisan procedural wrangling. 
   The cost of solving the Y2K problem is staggering. Experts have estimated that the businesses in the United States alone will spend $50 billion in fixing affected computers, products and systems. But experts have also predicted that the potential litigation costs could reach $1 trillion--more than the legal costs associated with asbestos, breast implants, tobacco, and Superfund litigation combined--more than three times the total annual estimated cost of all civil litigation in the United States. This is not just my opinion, but are facts supported by a panel of experts on an American Bar Association panel last August. These costs represent resources and energy that will not be directed toward innovation, new technology, or new productivity for our nation's economy. This litigation could overwhelm and paralyze the industries driving the best economy in our history. 
   The Y2K phenomenon, while anticipated for years, presents nevertheless, a one-time, unique problem. Our legal system is neither designed, nor adequately equipped, to handle the 
   flood of litigation which we can expect when law firms across the country are laying in wait, in eager anticipation of a golden opportunity. More to the point, the vast majority of our Nation's citizens do not want to sue. They want their computers, their equipment, their systems to work. They want solutions to problems, and a healthy economy, not a trial lawyers' full employment act. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I would object to going to morning business at this time. The Senator from South Carolina has 22 minutes left, and I am glad to listen on that time, but it is getting time for us to vote on cloture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, could I first say, before Senator DASCHLE leaves the floor, that having been in the minority for the first 7 years or 8 years I was here, I certainly have sympathy with his frustration. The great strength of the Senate is that not only does every Senator have the right to be heard but the minority does also. But I also think Senator DASCHLE realizes that if we allow any amendment on any subject with extended debate, then the body does not move forward. 
   I have not seen a better relationship than the one that exists between Senator DASCHLE and Senator LOTT. It is one of friendship and it is one of cooperation. I think the legislative accomplishments which have been achieved during Senator LOTT's and Senator DASCHLE's stewardship have been incredibly impressive, really. 
   I think perhaps it would be best for us to recognize that there is virtue on both sides of the argument, especially in light of, for example, yes, the tree is filled, but I did state, and the majority leader stated, we would be glad to vitiate one of those parts of the tree so that we could take up relevant amendments. I think that was made clear. So with the tree filled, there was the opportunity to debate relevant amendments. 
   I also comment that, as Senator DASCHLE pointed out, it is not really best to have all of this progress done off the floor in negotiations. I can't express a deep enough 
   appreciation to Senator DODD, Senator WYDEN, Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator HATCH, and Senator BENNETT for their efforts, and others, and those of Senator KERRY of Massachusetts. From a personal standpoint, I express my sympathy for Senator DASCHLE's frustration. But at the same time, I do believe we could have moved forward with debate and votes on this issue. 
   I really appreciate his comments about his commitment to seeing this bill pass, because we really do have to pass this legislation. We will engage in further negotiations. But between now and early next week, what I would sincerely hope is that all of us--the majority leader and Senator DASCHLE would urge all of our colleagues to get together, come up with a set of amendments, as we usually do when this process comes to an end, come up with a set of relevant amendments, a time period associated with it, and get this thing done so we do not have to have another cloture vote and not have this very vital issue addressed. 
   Again, I also say that these amendments are important. I know the Senator from South Carolina feels very strongly about many of them. But it is time, really, that we started going through that process, even though we are bringing the bill down today. 
   Again, I express my appreciation to Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator WYDEN, and Senator DODD on this very important issue. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. DASCHLE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I join Senator KYL and the other co-sponsors in introducing legislation that I hope will significantly improve the Border Patrol's ability to recruit and retain the talented individuals we need to guard our nation's borders against illegal immigration and illicit drugs. This legislation is timely and important. I hope we can act on it promptly. 
   As my colleagues know, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 mandated the addition of 1,000 new Border Patrol agents annually through 2001 as a means of providing better enforcement against illegal immigration, particularly along the southwest border. Unfortunately, this Administration has seen fit to request full funding for those authorized agents in only one year since we passed that law. 
   Moreover, problems in recruiting and retaining Border Patrol agents have resulted in a net increase of only several hundred new agents annually. Thus, during the current fiscal year, for which we did in fact appropriate funds for 1,000 new agents, the recruiting and retention problems are such that the Border Patrol will see a net increase in its ranks of only several hundred agents. Indeed, Border Patrol Chief Gus de la Vina testified before the Senate Immigration Subcommittee only yesterday that, despite the Congressional mandate to add 1,000 new agents this year, the Border Patrol only anticipates hiring between 200 and 400 agents. Arizona, which had anticipated receiving about 400 of the 1,000 new agents slated for FY 1999, will now receive fewer than 150. We can and must do better than that. 
   The Border Patrol's Tucson sector last month recorded a record 60,537 illegal immigrant detentions, raising this year's total to more than 200,000. And the Tucson sector does not even cover the entire Arizona border with Mexico. The immigration problem in my state is getting worse, not better, as the President's decision to request funding for no new agents in FY 2000 implies.  The Border Patrol's inability to hire the required number of new agents even as towns like Douglas, Arizona face a rising tide of illegal immigrants does not inspire confidence in its ability to properly carry out its mission. 
   Our legislation would promote all Border Patrol agents who have completed at least one year at the GS-9 level, and who are rated as fully successful or higher, to the GS-11 rank, placing them on a professional level commensurate with their peers in other Federal law enforcement agencies. Our bill would also create an Office of Border Patrol Recruitment and Retention to develop outreach programs for prospective Border Patrol agents, develop programs to provide retention incentives, and make recommendations about Border Patrol salaries and benefits. It is our hope that this legislation will help reverse the outflow of skilled agents from the Border Patrol, as well as make such service more appealing to the talented men and women it relies on. 
   America's Border Patrol agents perform critical work but have been underappreciated for years. It's time we changed that. The premise of our legislation is the Border Patrol agents, whose duties involve considerable risks and require unique abilities, perform work as important as many of our other Federal law enforcement agents and should be compensated accordingly. Similarly, the Border Patrol should develop personnel policies to attract more of our best and brightest. At a time when we are having trouble hiring and retaining new agents, and as pressure from illegal immigration intensifies in some areas, especially southern Arizona, we cannot afford not to take better care of the men and women of the U.S. Border Patrol. Our legislation makes meaningful progress toward that end. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join Senator HUTCHISON, Chairman of the Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee in introducing this bill. 
   The Federal Maritime Commission has done a commendable job in its implementation of the Ocean Shipping Reform Act that takes effect on May 1, 1999. This measure will insure that the Commission can complete their implementation efforts and continue their other duties, administering the Shipping Act of 1984 and enforcing the Foreign Shipping Practices Act and Section 19 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920. 
   I am pleased that the subcommittee is taking this action today and will join Senator HUTCHISON and the other sponsors in expeditiously moving this authorization through the legislative process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990429</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, an entire nation was stunned this past week with the shocking violence that unfolded in Littleton, Colorado. Perhaps, if this had been an isolated incident, we could have written it off as two crazed individuals. However, the tragic reality is that it was not an isolated incident, but another in an increasing pattern of violence in our schools. Even more disturbing is that these schoolyard shootings are occurring against the backdrop of ever-escalating youth violence, and suicide. 
   This is an extraordinarily complex problem, with many contributing factors. However, what this comes down to is responsibility, and the most basic and profound responsibility that our culture--any culture--has, is raising its children. We are failing that responsibility, and the extent of our failure is being measured in the deaths, and injuries of our kids in the schoolyard and on the streets of our neighborhoods and communities. 
   Primary responsibility lies with families. As a country, we are not parenting our children. We are not adequately involving ourselves in our children's lives, the friends they hang out with, what they do with their time, the problems they are struggling with. This is our job, our paramount responsibility, and most unfortunately, we are failing. We must get our priorities straight, and that means putting our kids first. 
   However, parents need help. They need help because our homes and our families--our children's minds, are being flooded by a tide of violence. This dehumanizing violence pervades our society: our movies depict graphic violence; our children are taught to kill and maim by interactive video games; the Internet, which holds such tremendous potential in so many ways, is tragically used by some to communicate unimaginable hatred, images and descriptions of violence, and ``how-to'' manuals on everything from bomb construction to drugs. Our culture is dominated by media, and our children, more-so than any generation before them, is vulnerable to the images of violence and hate that, unfortunately, are dominant themes in so much of what they see, and hear. 
   Thus, today I rise to introduce, calling upon the Surgeon General to conduct a comprehensive study of media violence, in all its forms, and to issue a report on its effects, and recommendations on how we can turn this tragic tide of youth violence. 
   As I have said, this is a complex challenge. Certainly, working with the media industry, we can come to some consensus on immediate measures that can be taken to curb our children's access to the types of excessive and gratuitous violence that is currently flooding our homes and families. However, the crisis we are currently facing did not occur overnight, and we must take time to achieve a comprehensive understanding of how media violence affects childhood development, and what children are most at risk to its impact. 
   Again, I urge all Americans to get involved in their kids' lives. Ask questions, listen to their fears and concerns, their hopes and their dreams. Children are not simply small adults. 
   Childhood is a time of innocence, a time to teach discipline and values. Our children are our most precious gift, they are full of innocence and hope. We must work together to preserve the sanctity of childhood.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I understand there is a joint resolution at the desk due for its second reading. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I object to further proceedings on this matter at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, first I will discuss an issue that is going to come before the Senate either late this week or next week. I am not sure. That is the issue of Kosovo. I believe it is important we address the issue. I believe it is important we address the issue as we have previous foreign policy issues. 
   In the case of our resolution supporting United States involvement in Bosnia, we had a Dole resolution and we had a couple of others that were voted on. In the case of the Persian Gulf resolution, we had a resolution that was proposed by then-Senator Dole, who was then the minority leader, and one that was proposed by Senator Mitchell. I hope we will proceed in a fashion where more than one resolution is considered and voted on at the  time. That is our responsibility, and I hope we intend to do it. 
   I strongly urge the majority leader to accept a vote on a resolution that I have already introduced. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, let me say we are ready to move forward on the bill. We have a couple of amendments that can be accepted by both sides. I would like to move forward with that and hope that both supporters and opponents of the bill will come to the floor. 
   Today I see a Statement of Administration Policy:  
   The Administration strongly opposes S. 96 as reported by the Commerce Committee, as well as the amendment intended to be proposed by Senators McCain and Wyden as a substitute. If S. 96 were presented to the President, either as reported or in the form of the proposed McCain-Wyden amendment, the Attorney General would recommend a veto.  
   Let me say, I am glad to see the administration's position on this. I think it makes it very clear as to whose side they are on. I hope all the manufacturers, the small businesses, the medium size businesses and the large businesses in America will take careful note of the administration's absolute opposition to an effort that would solve this very, very serious issue. 
   Of course, they support amendments that are proposed by the trial lawyers which would gut this legislation. I have no doubt that if we accepted the amendments that are going to be proposed, it would gut it. But let us come to the floor and debate these amendments and move forward. 
   We have been on this bill now for 3 days. We still haven't had a single amendment. I say to the opponents of this legislation and the substitute that Senator WYDEN and I proposed, come to the floor. Let us debate your amendments and let us move forward. There is a cloture petition that will be voted on tomorrow. We may have to move forward in that fashion. 
   In USA Today, Mr. President, there is an interesting column under Technology by Kevin Maney: ``Lawyers Find Slim Pickings at Y2K Lawsuit Buffet.''  
   Y2K lawyers must be getting desperate, in much the way an overpopulation of squirrels gets desperate when there aren't enough nuts to go around. 
   So far, there's been a beguiling absence of breakdowns and mishaps because of the Y2K computer problem. The ever-multiplying number of lawyers chasing Y2K lawsuits apparently have had to scrounge for something to do. At least that's the picture Sen. John McCain [R-Ariz.] painted on the Senate floor Tuesday. 
   McCain, who is sponsoring legislation to limit Y2K lawsuits, told the story of Tom Johnson. It seems that Johnson has filed a class action against retailers, including Circuit City, Office Depot and Good Guys. The suit charges that salespeople at the stores have not warned consumers about products that might have Y2K problems. 
   For one thing, that's like suing a Chrysler dealership because the sales guy didn't tell you a minivan might break down when you're 500 miles from home on a family vacation. Or suing a TV network for failing to announce that its shows might stink. 
   Beyond that, Johnson doesn't claim in the suit that he has been harmed. He's just doing it for the good of humanity--and ``relief in the amount of all the defendants' profits from 1995 to date from selling these products.'' * * * * * 
   Think Johnson's case is an anomaly? We haven't even hit seersucker season, and the lawsuits focusing on Jan. 1 are flying. More than 80 have been filed so far. If you sift through the individual suits, a few seem understandable. The rest seem like Rocco Chilelli v. Intuit. 
   Chilelli's suit says older versions of Intuit's Quicken checkbook software are not Y2K ready and alleges that Intuit refuses to provide free upgrades. Filed in New York, the suit is a class action on behalf of ``thousands of customers (who) will be forced to spend even more money to acquire the latest Quicken version and may be required to spend time acquainting themselves with the updated program and possibly re-inputting financial information.'' 
   After much legal wrangling, the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Nassau, found that--duh!--no damage had yet happened, as the calendar hasn't yet flipped to 2000. The case was dismissed.  
   Mr. President, the column goes on to talk about the frivolous suits that have been filed already. We need to act. 
   I note the presence of the Senator from South Carolina. I ask if he is ready to consider two Murkowski amendments at this time, which have been agreed to by both sides. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send an amendment to the desk to the motion to commit with instructions. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that the pending business be temporarily laid aside in order for the Senate to consider two amendments en bloc to be offered by Senator MURKOWSKI, that such amendments be immediately considered en bloc and agreed to en bloc, the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table, and the Senate then return to the pending business. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the pending matter before the Senate be set aside so I can speak on the pending bill overall. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I believe I have the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to respond to some of the examples of how S. 96 would deny justice to businesses injured by a Y2K failure that have been offered by the ranking member. In particular, the example of a company called Produce Palace has been raised a number of times. In fact, the owner of that business testified before the Commerce Committee. 
   Let me respond to the specific charges with the specific facts of that case and dispel the notion that S. 96 would make that business' situation even worse. 
   The small businessman who owns Produce Palace has testified frequently regarding the problem he had with a computerized point of sale system, including a credit card scanner which would not accept credit cards with expiration dates of ``00.'' He asserted his situation would somehow be worsened by S. 96. The facts are to the contrary. The situation would be better with the passage of S. 96. 
   Although he complains that S. 96 would require a 90-day waiting period, his lawsuit against the cash register system company was not commenced for over 2 years after the problem occurred. S. 96 would require that he provide 30 days notice to the company of the problem. This notice period does not foreclose emergency action for temporary restraining orders or similar extraordinary court involvement where warranted. 
   Although he communicated back and forth with the company responsible for his problems over many months, under S. 96 the company would have had to respond by the end of the 30 days, and fix the problem within another 60 days. He could have begun suit at the end of the 60-day remediation period if the problem was not fixed, and not continued to be strung along for months and months. 
   Additionally, most of the Produce Palace damages were suffered from lost profits and business. These losses may or may not be covered in his contract with the equipment provider. If those issues are included in a contract, then the contract terms prevail. If not, he would have every right to secure a new cash register or new credit card ``swipe'' machine so his business could proceed during the interim. This is something he apparently did not do under the current law. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send a second-degree amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that further reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I regret that we have to go through this. It was chosen to attempt to recommit this important bill back to the committee. As a result of that action, it is not only impeding but making very difficult our progress on the legislation. 
   The Senator from Massachusetts and I have done battle on the floor of the Senate in an environment characterized with respect and appreciation. I do appreciate and respect the commitment that the Senate from Massachusetts makes to a variety of issues. I have not seen anyone on the floor who is committed as much as he is and willing to come to the floor day after day in advocacy of the issues that he believes in--health care, minimum wage, and many others. I hope the Senator from Massachusetts and others on the other side of the aisle will allow us to move forward with this legislation, whatever amendments they wish to propose, or amendments on this side, that we could have open debate and move forward. 
   With that commitment, I will move that we remove the cloture motion, if we have that commitment from the other side. 
   I hope we can move forward. Apparently, we will not. But it is not the way the American people expect us to do business. 
   There is a little book we hand out to people when they come here to the Capitol and we give to our constituents. It is called, ``How Our Laws are Made.'' Our laws aren't made this way. This isn't the way we describe it to the American people. The way we describe it to the American people is a bill is reported out of committee, it comes to the floor, the amending process takes place, and we then continue to final passage of the legislation and to a conference and come back to the floor of the Senate. 
   This is not that procedure. I do not think the schoolchildren will look very favorably on this kind of exercise that we are going through now. I appeal to the better angels of my colleague's nature that we move forward with this very important legislation as quickly as possible. 
   I note the presence of the distinguished majority leader. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to first comment on the remarks by the Democratic leader, who is a very old and dear friend of mine going back many years. I appreciate his frustration and concern. I think he made a very eloquent point here. 
   I point out to my good friend, there is a bit of frustration on this side, too. There is no better example than what is happening right now. We have this bill on Y2K, which is time sensitive if there ever was one, if there was ever a definition of a time-sensitive piece of legislation. We have had it on the floor for 4 days and we cannot get a single amendment, not one single amendment up on your side of the aisle for debate and voting. I say to the Senator, the distinguished Democrat leader, that is what also breeds frustration on this side. Then the majority leader has to file a cloture motion. 
   The Senator hearkened back to previous years when his party was in the majority. I have to tell you, most of the bills we took up, we put up amendments. Those amendments were either tabled or agreed to or modified, and we went forward. On this bill right here, we have not had a single amendment. I begged for the last 4 days: Please come forward with an amendment. In all candor, on that side of the aisle the leader has said: On this bill, all I want to do is kill the bill. All I want to do is kill the bill. Then we are forced to go ahead with a cloture motion and a cloture vote. 
   My point to the distinguished Democratic leader is, maybe we ought to all draw back a little bit, go back to a period of time where perhaps we were proposing amendments on both sides and they were allowed. I agree with the distinguished Democratic leader that we should have these issues raised, I hope in a timely fashion, such as the distinguished Democratic leader has sought to do. 
   I know what the staff is now whispering in the Senator's ear: ``We filled up the tree.'' We filled up the tree because we did not want to take up minimum wage. We wanted to move forward with this bill. 
   I understand and appreciate the passion the Senator from Massachusetts has about minimum wage. I do not mind debating the bill. But I would also like to get this bill done, which is time sensitive on January 1 of the year 2000. Why there would not be a single amendment--as soon as we filled up the tree I said I would be glad to agree by unanimous consent we take up any amendment that is germane to this bill. I think that would be appropriate. 
   In 4 days, there has not been a single amendment. I am not saying the responsibility is all on that side of the aisle or on this side of the aisle. I hope we can work out an orderly process. But it frustrates me and the people, the small-, medium- and large-size business people all over America who are facing this crisis, when we seem to be stuck without even considering a single amendment on the bill. 
   So I hope the Democratic leader in his frustration, which is understandable, would also understand that occasionally there is frustration on this side of the aisle as well. Having been in both the minority and the majority, I understand, I think, the frustrations that are felt there on that side of the aisle. 
   I would like to make one additional comment. I want to express my appreciation to Senator DODD for his efforts on this bill; Senator HATCH, Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator WYDEN, and 
   Senator BENNETT. As we know, Senator DODD and Senator BENNETT chaired a very important special committee on the Y2K issue. They have done a tremendous job. So they have been heavily involved in this legislation. 
   Senator FEINSTEIN and Senator HATCH have had a longstanding involvement, and I am very grateful to them for their constructive contributions to this bill. We have had many hours of meetings trying to work out very difficult aspects of this issue. Thanks to Senator DODD's leadership, along with that of Senators HATCH and FEINSTEIN, WYDEN and BENNETT, I think we have an agreement that we will be able to move this issue forward. 
   So I ask again if we could agree on amendments. I understand there are about 20 pending, about 10 of them by the distinguished ranking member of the Commerce Committee. If we could narrow down those amendments, agree to them and agree to have votes, then we could vitiate the cloture vote tomorrow and get this thing done. 
   Unfortunately, so far there has been no agreement, there has been no amendment brought up, and there has been no time agreement. I again plead with the other side, if we are really interested in passing this legislation, let's go ahead, agree we stand ready to agree to the amendments and the time agreements on all of those amendments. 
   Mr. President, again I want to make clearly understood the great respect and affection I have especially for the distinguished Democratic leader. I understand his frustrations. We felt them when we were in the minority, and I hope all of us together can have more comity in this entire process so we can do the people's business.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
   Mr. KENNEDY addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I paid attention to the exchange. The Senator from North Carolina was not here. The Senator from South Carolina was here when we fought for 10 years on a little item called aircraft product liability. I know the Senator from South Carolina fought viciously against that. The whole world was going to collapse if we gave an 18-year period of repose to aircraft manufacturers for products they built and manufactured. 
   Now there are 9,000, at least, new employees, and we are building the best piston driven aircraft in the world, thanks to that legislation. 
   Ask any of the owners of those aircraft companies and those people who are working there. It is because we finally passed that bill over the objections of the American Trial Lawyers Association which fought it for 10 years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I will not. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 28, for purposes of conducting a closed full committee hearing which is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m. The purpose of this oversight hearing is to receive testimony on damage to the national security from Chinese espionage at DOE nuclear weapons laboratories. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Environment and Public Works be granted permission to conduct a hearing Wednesday, April 28, at 2:30 p.m., Hearing Room (SD-406), to receive testimony from, George T. Frampton, Jr., nominated by the President to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Finance Committee requests unanimous consent to conduct a hearing on Wednesday, April 28, 1999 beginning at 10 a.m. in room 215 Dirksen. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Governmental Affairs Committee Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation, and Federal Services be permitted to meet on Wednesday, April 28, 1999, at 2:30 p.m. for a hearing on ``The Future of the ABM Treaty.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions be authorized to meet in executive session during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 28, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the  Senate on Wednesday, April 28, 1999 at 9:30 a.m. to conduct an Oversight Hearing on Bureau of Indian Affairs Capacity and Mission. The Hearing will be held in Room 485, Russell Senate Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate Committee on the Judiciary be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 28, 1999 at 9:30 a.m. in room 226 of the Senate Dirksen Office Building to hold a hearing on: ``S.J. Res. 14, Proposing an Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, authorizing Congress to Prohibit the Physical Desecration of the Flag of the United States.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Rules and Administration be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 28, 1999 at 9:30 a.m. to receive testimony on the operations of the Architect of the Capitol. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Intelligence be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 28, 1999 at 2 p.m. to hold a closed hearing on Intelligence Matters. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Forests and Public Land Management of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, April 28, for purposes of conducting a Subcommittee on Forests and Public Lands Management hearing which is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. The purpose of this hearing is to receive testimony on S. 415, a bill to amend the Arizona Statehood and Enabling Act in order to protect the permanent trust funds of the State of Arizona from erosion due to inflation and modify the basis on which distributions are made from the funds, and S. 607, a bill to reauthorize and amend the National Geological Mapping Act of 1992; and S. 416, a bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to convey to the city of Sisters, Oregon, a certain parcel of land for use in connection with a sewage treatment facility. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 88, submitted earlier by Senators HAGEL and KERREY. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate now proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res. 89, submitted earlier by Senator MCCONNELL. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to and the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, April 29. I further ask that on Thursday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed to have expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. I further ask unanimous consent that immediately following the prayer, there be 1 hour for debate only, equally divided between Senator MCCAIN and Senator HOLLINGS, relative to the cloture motion on the McCain amendment to S. 96. I further ask that following that debate, the Senate proceed to a vote on the motion to invoke cloture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene at 9:30 a.m. and immediately begin 1 hour of debate relating to the cloture motion to the McCain amendment to the Y2K legislation. At approximately 10:30 a.m., following that debate, the Senate will proceed to a cloture vote on the pending McCain amendment to S. 96. As a reminder, under rule XXII, all second-degree amendments to the McCain amendment must be filed 1 hour prior to the vote. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that Members have until 10 a.m. on Thursday in order to file second-degree amendments to the substitute amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, following the cloture vote, the Senate may continue debate on the Y2K bill, the lockbox issue or any other legislative or executive items cleared for action. As a further reminder, a cloture motion was filed today to the pending amendment to the Social Security lockbox legislation. That vote will take place on Friday at a time to be determined by the two leaders. For the remainder of the week, it is possible that the Senate may begin debate on the situation in Kosovo. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, if there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment as a further mark of respect to the memory of deceased Senator Roman Hruska, following the remarks of Senator GRAHAM. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990428</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am going to offer a compromise amendment that is at the desk, and I further ask unanimous consent that debate only be in order following the offering of that amendment until 2:15 today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, as chairman of the Commerce Committee and with the authority of the committee, I withdraw the committee amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I send a substitute amendment to the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to offer, with my friend and colleague from Oregon, Senator WYDEN, a substitute amendment to S. 96, the Y2K Act. The substitute amendment we offer is truly a bipartisan effort. We have worked diligently with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle and will continue to do so to address concerns, narrow some provisions, and assure that this bill will sunset when it is no longer pertinent and necessary. 
   Senator WYDEN, who said at our committee markup that he wants to get to ``yes,'' has worked tirelessly with me to get there. He has offered excellent suggestions and comments, and I think the substitute we bring today is a better piece of legislation for his efforts. 
   Specifically, this substitute would provide time for plaintiffs and defendants to resolve Y2K problems without litigation. It reiterates the plaintiff's duty to mitigate damages and highlights the defendant's opportunity to assist plaintiffs in doing that by providing information and resources. It provides for proportional liability in most cases with exceptions for fraudulent or intentional conduct or where the plaintiff has limited assets. 
   It protects governmental entities, including municipalities, school, fire, water and sanitation districts from punitive damages, and it eliminates punitive damage limits 
   for egregious conduct while providing some protection against runaway punitive damage awards. It provides protection for those not directly involved in a Y2K failure. 
   The bill as amended does not cover personal injury and wrongful death cases. It is important to keep in mind the broad support this bill has from virtually every segment of our economy. This bill is important not only to the high-tech industry or to big business but carries the strong support of small business, retailers and wholesalers. Many of those supporting the  bill will find themselves as both plaintiffs and defendants. They have weighed the benefits and drawbacks of the provisions of this bill and have overwhelmingly concluded that their chief priority is to prevent and fix Y2K problems and make our technology work and not divert the resources into time-consuming and costly litigation. 
   Mr. President, I would like to interrupt my prepared statement at this time to mention that when we passed this legislation through the Commerce Committee, unfortunately, on one of the rare occasions in the more than 2 years that I have been chairman of the committee, it was passed on a party line vote, on a vote of 11 to 9. 
   At that time Senator WYDEN, Senator KERRY, Senator DORGAN and others expressed a strong desire to work in a bipartisan fashion so that we could pass this legislation. Most of us are aware that when legislation goes to the floor along party lines and is divided on party lines, the chances of passage are minimal, to say the least. 
   We worked with Senator WYDEN and others, and we made eight major compromises in the original legislation, sufficient in the view of many to enhance the ability of this legislation to be passed and, very frankly, satisfy at least some of the concerns of the trial lawyers and others that had been voiced about the legislation. 
   Last night, Senator WYDEN and the Senator from Connecticut, Senator DODD, and I met, and we discussed three major concerns that Senator DODD had, which two we could agree to, and on the third there was some discussion about language. It was my distinct impression at that time that we had come to an agreement on these three particular additional items. 
   Apparently this morning that is not the case. On the third item there is still not agreement between ourselves and Senator DODD and his staff. I hope we can continue to work on that language. 
   Mr. President, I have been around here now for 13 years. I have seen legislation compromise after compromise made to the point where the legislation itself becomes meaningless. We are approaching that point now. 
   I will be glad to negotiate with anyone. My friend from Massachusetts, Senator KERRY, and I have been in discussions as well. But we cannot violate some of the fundamental principles that I just articulated as the reason for this legislation. If we weren't facing a very severe crisis in about 7 or 8 months from now--7 months, I guess--then there would not be a need for this legislation. 
   Our object is to protect innocent business people, both large, medium and small, from being exposed to the kind of lawsuits which we know will transpire if we do not do something about the problem. 
   It is not only important that we receive the support of the ``high-tech community,'' which is very important to the future of our Nation's economy, but the medium-size businesses, the small businesses, the retailers and others are all in support of this legislation. 
   I am aware of the power of the American Trial Lawyers Association. I have been beaten by them on several occasions. They have a string of victories to their credit. They are also, among others, another argument for campaign finance reform, which is a diatribe I will not enter in today. The fact is this issue needs to be resolved. I would be very disappointed if over a couple of points we cannot agree and this legislation fails to proceed. 
   Did my friend from Oregon have a question or a comment? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to yield to the Senator from Oregon, without losing my claim to the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Oregon for his enormous work on this legislation. I think it bears repeating what we have been able to do here. I believe any objective observer would agree that what Senator WYDEN has brought to the bill represents a tremendous movement from the bill we originally passed in the Commerce Committee. 
   These discussions with Senator WYDEN and others resulted in at least eight major changes. The biggest change was that we eliminated the so-called good-faith defense, because we could not define good faith and reasonable efforts. 
   We also put in, as Senator WYDEN mentioned, a sunset of January 1, 2003. There is no cap on punitive damages when the defendant has intentionally caused harm to the plaintiff. It clarifies that if a plaintiff gives 30 days notice of a problem to the defendant, the defendant has 60 days to fix it. This doesn't result in a 90-day delay for litigation but does offer a critical opportunity to solve problems rather than litigate. 
   Language regarding the state of mind and liability of bystanders was significantly narrowed, redrafted, and clarified in order to assure that the provisions are consistent with the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act of 1998. 
   The economic loss rule was likewise rewritten and narrowed to reflect the current law in the majority of States. 
   Proportionate liability was significantly compromised to incorporate exceptions to the general rule to protect plaintiffs from suffering loss. 
   Class action language was revised and narrowed, and language respecting the effect of State law on contracts and the rules with respect to contract interpretation was also revised to address concerns that Senator WYDEN raised. 
   In other words, I believe we have gone a long way. 
   Mr. President, the opponents of this legislation will make several arguments. I respect those arguments. One will be that we are changing tort law--that we are somehow fundamentally changing the law despite the fact that this has a sunset provision in it of January 1, 2003. 
   Also, they will say it is not a big problem; it is not nearly as big a problem as you think it is; there are going to be suits dismissed; that the manufacturers and the high-tech community and the businesspeople are setting up a straw man here because it is not that huge an issue despite the estimates that there can be as much as $300 billion to $1 trillion taken out of the economy. 
   Let me quote from the Progressive Policy Institute backgrounder of March 1999. They state:  
   As the millennium nears, the year 2000 computer problem poses a critical challenge to our economy. Tremendous investments are being made to fix Y2K problems with U.S. companies expected to spend more than $50 billion. However, these efforts could be hampered by a barrage of potential legislation as fear of liability may keep some businesses from effectively engaging in Y2K remediation efforts.  
   Trial attorneys across the country are actually preparing for the potential windfall. For those who doubt the emergence of such leviathan litigation, one only needs to listen to what is coming out of certain quarters of the legal community. At the American Bar Association annual convention in Toronto last August, a panel of experts predicted that the legal costs associated with Y2K will exceed that of asbestos, breast implants, tobacco, and Superfund litigation combined. That is more than three times the total annual estimated cost of all civil litigation in the United States. 
   That is what was propounded at the American Bar Association convention in Toronto last August. 
   Mr. President, it isn't the Bank of America that is saying that. It isn't the high-tech community. It is the American Bar Association.  
   Seminars on how to try Y2K cases are well underway, and approximately 500 law firms across the country have put together Y2K litigation teams to capitalize on the event. Also, several lawsuits have already been filed making trial attorneys confident that a large number of businesses, big and small, will end up in court as both a plaintiff and a defendant. Such overwhelming litigation would reduce investment and slow income growth for American workers. 
   Indeed, innovation and economic growth will be stifled by the rapacity of strident litigators. In addition to the potentially huge costs of litigation, there is another unique element to the Y2K problem. In contrast to past cases of business liability where individual firms or even industries engaged in some wrongful and damaging practices, the Y2K problem potentially affects all aspects of the economy as it is for all intents and purposes a unique one-time event. It is best understood as an incomparable societal problem rooted in the early stages of our Nation's transformation to a digital economy. Applying some of the existing standards of litigation to such a distinct and communal problem is simply not appropriate. 
   Legislation is needed to provide incentives for businesses to fix Y2K problems, to encourage resolution of Y2K conflicts outside of the courtroom, and to ensure that the problem is not exploited by untenable lawsuits.  
   The Progressive Policy Institute goes on to say at the end:  
   In order to diminish the threat of burdensome and unwarranted litigation, it is essential that any legislation addressing Y2K liability do the following: 
   Encourage remediation over litigation and the assignment of blame; 
   Enact fair rules that reassure businesses; 
   That honest efforts at remediation will be rewarded by limiting liability while enforcing contracts and punishing negligence; 
   Promote alternative dispute resolution; 
   And, finally discourage frivolous lawsuits while protecting avenues of redress for parties that suffer real injuries.  
   Mr. President, on those four principles we acted in this legislation, and then we moved back to, if not the principles of it, some of what, in my view, were the most desirable parts of the legislation on the nine major issues which I just described in our negotiations with Senator WYDEN and others. Then we even made concessions in two additional areas with Senator DODD. And now it is not enough. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Does the Senator from Oregon have a question? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I say to my friend from Oregon that he has pretty well pointed out that there were several standards which could be used for both legal as well as the sense of how the people who are involved in the Y2K situation are involved. To have one standard, I think, was clearly called for, although perhaps I would have liked to have seen a tougher standard. But the fact is that this was a process of how we develop legislation. We also wanted to respect the individual contracts, as the Senator from Oregon knows. 
   Mr. President, I just want to say again that my dear friend from South Carolina has been very patient, and I know that he wants to speak at some length. I appreciate both his compassion and commitment and knowledge of the issue. 
   We have tried to compromise. We will continue to try to compromise. We  are now reaching close to a point where the legislation would be meaningless. 
   I am all in favor of a process where amendments are 
   proposed, where they are debated and voted on. I think that is the way we should do business. 
   If the Senator from South Carolina has a problem with this legislation, I hope he will propose an amendment to this legislation. I will be glad to debate it, and we will be glad to have votes. 
   It is important that we resolve this legislation. I would not like to see, nor do I think the people of this country deserve, a gridlock where blocking of any legislation to move forward on this issue takes place. I don't think that is fair. I don't think it is fair or appropriate on an issue of this magnitude of which time is of the essence. We can't have a blockage of this issue and take this legislation up several months from now. 
   I respect the views of others who oppose this legislation. But let's go through a legislative process. I am willing to stay here all day and all night to debate the amendments, whatever they may be. I don't want to introduce a cloture motion, because obviously that cuts off people's ability to debate this issue because of the timeframe and time limits involved in a cloture motion. 
   But I also urge my colleagues who oppose this legislation, let's not engage in extraneous amendments on minimum wage, or violence on TV, or guns, or anything else. That, frankly, in all due respect to my colleagues, is avoiding this issue. This issue needs to be addressed. 
   In the eyes of every American, there is a huge problem arising at 12:01, January 1 of the year 2000. We have an obligation to address that problem. 
   For us to now be sidetracked with other issues and extraneous amendments, or others, is doing a great disservice to those men and women, small businesses and large and medium size, which will be affected by this serious problem, of which, by the way, even with a select committee we really haven't gotten a good handle on the magnitude of the problem. It depends on what part of our economy, what part of government, et cetera. 
   But there is no one who alleges that there is no problem. It is our obligation to try to address this problem. Let's do it in an orderly fashion with debate, with amendments, and then vote on final passage. 
   I urge my colleagues to respect such a process. 
   UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent when the Senate reconvenes at 2:15 it be in order for the Senate Chaplain to offer a prayer in honor of the moment of silence being observed in Colorado, and following the prayer the junior Senator from Colorado be recognized to speak, to be followed by the senior Senator from Colorado who, after some remarks, will offer a moment of silence. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished chair. 
   First, I thank Senator LOTT and Senator DASCHLE for their commitment to try to work out a resolution, a LOTT-DASCHLE amendment on the Kosovo issue. I have been saying, as have many others, that we as U.S. Senators, individually and as a body, have a duty to be on record on this issue. Those who oppose our involvement, I believe, should be on record in that fashion as well as those who are in favor. 
   I think it is well-known by most observers of the U.S. Senate that the 1991 debate that took place in this Chamber on the Persian Gulf war resolution was one of the more enlightened and, frankly, sterling moments of this Senate. It was a very close vote, 53-47. I remember it very well. At that time, Senators on both sides of the aisle and both sides of this United States were heard. They were on record and the U.S. Senate was on record, as well. 
   I point out that immediately following that very close vote there was a unanimous vote in support of the men and women in the military who were conducting that conflict. 
   I thank Senator LOTT and Senator DASCHLE. I am pleased to work out the details of this resolution. I know it is a very, very contentious and difficult issue that we will be debating. I have heard allegations that some Senators don't wish to risk a vote on this issue. I don't believe that is the case. If it were the case, we have young men and women right now who are risking their lives. It is incumbent upon us as a body to act. 
   Second, I say to my friend from South Carolina, I am sorry that we have to go through the filling up of the tree and filing a cloture motion on this bill. I prefer the normal amending process. 
   I believe the pending legislation is the Y2K substitute. What is the pending business before the Senate? 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, if there is an amendment that is germane that the Senator from South Carolina or anyone else would like to bring up, I believe we could by unanimous consent vacate the final amendment of the majority leader so that we can debate and vote on that amendment. 
   The purpose of filling up the tree was, clearly, to prevent nongermane amendments from clogging up this process. 
   I say to my friend from South Carolina, I think we should debate amendments. We should move forward as quickly as possible and get this issue resolved as quickly as possible. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, all I will say is that we had a couple of long meetings of negotiations on this issue. We have still not resolved a couple of outstanding problems. They are tough, very difficult. I am not sure we will be able to resolve them, but we will continue negotiating tonight and into tomorrow. It is my understanding that the majority leader will move back on the bill at noon tomorrow, and we will have the morning to continue those negotiations. 
   I hope we can reasonably sit down together and resolve these remaining problems. We have resolved almost all of them, but there are two or three very difficult issues remaining. All I can do is assure my colleagues, I will make every effort to get them resolved as quickly as possible. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the resolution. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I move to reconsider the vote, and I move to lay that motion on the table. 
   The motion to lay on the table was agreed to. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet on Tuesday, April 27, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. in open session, to consider the nominations of Mr. Brian E. Sheridan, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict; and Dr. Lawrence J. Delaney, to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be allowed to meet on Tuesday, April 27, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. on OMC/Truck Safety. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources be granted permission to meet during session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 27, for purposes of conducting a full committee hearing which is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m. The purpose of this hearing is to receive testimony on S. 25, the Conservation and Reinvestment Act of 1999; S. 446, the Resources 2000 Act; S. 532, the Public Land and Recreation Investment Act of 1999; S. 819, the National Park Preservation Act; and the Administration's Lands Legacy proposal. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, the Finance Committee requests unanimous consent to conduct a hearing on Tuesday, April 27, 1999 beginning at 10 a.m. in room 215 Dirksen. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Foreign Relations be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 27, 1999 at 2:30 p.m. to hold a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions be authorized to meet for a hearing on ``Medical Records Privacy'' during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 27, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the Judiciary, be authorized to hold an executive business meeting during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 27, 1999, at 10 a.m., in room 226 of the Senate Dirksen Office Building. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet at 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 27, 1999, in open session, to receive testimony on the threat of international narcotics-trafficking and the role of the Department of Defense in the Nation's war on drugs. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Subcommittee on Immigration, of the Senate Judiciary Committee, be authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Tuesday, April 27, 1999 at 2:15 p.m. to hold a hearing in room 226, Senate Dirksen Office Building, on: ``The Need for Additional Border Patrol at the Northern and Southern Borders.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I understand S.J. Res. 22 introduced earlier by Senator JEFFORDS for himself and others is at the desk, and I ask that it be read the first time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I now ask for its second reading and object to my own request. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today, it stand in adjournment until 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, April 28. I further ask that on Wednesday, immediately following the prayer, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date, the morning hour be deemed to have expired, and the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. I also ask that at 10:30 a.m. the Senate begin a period of morning business until 12 noon with Senators permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes with the following exceptions: Senator LOTT, or his designee, 30 minutes; Senator DURBIN, 30 minutes; and Senator KERRY for 15 minutes. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. For the information of all Senators, the Senate will convene at 10:30 a.m. and be in a period of morning business until 12 noon. Following morning business, the Senate will immediately resume debate on the Y2K legislation. I encourage my colleagues to come to the floor to debate this important issue. Further, the Senate may consider any other legislative or executive items cleared for action during today's session of the Senate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. If there is no further business to come before the Senate, I now ask unanimous consent that the Senate stand in adjournment under the previous order following the remarks of the Senator from Louisiana. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I listened with interest to the comments of the Senator from Nebraska about the late Senator Roman Hruska. There is something unique about Nebraska. There has been a long line of outstanding Senators to represent that State on both sides of the aisle. I know my colleagues and I appreciate very much both of our Senators from Nebraska, and they have carried on the tradition of Senator Curtis and Senator Hruska for honesty and integrity and a forthright addressing of the issues. 
   I know Senator Hruska is proud of Senator HAGEL, as Senator HAGEL and the rest of us who had the privilege of knowing Senator Hruska appreciate him and his service for 22 years in the Senate --a very long time. 
   I agree with the comments of my old, dear friend from South Carolina that we do need more balance in the Senate. He and I occasionally find ourselves on different sides of an issue, as we do on this one. But our disagreements have been characterized with mutual respect and appreciation. And frankly, I enjoy the debates I have had over the years with the Senator from South Carolina because he marshals his audience, and not only that, he from time to time injects a degree of humor that illuminates as well as elevates the debate. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I will be offering, with my friend and colleague from Oregon, Senator WYDEN, a substitute amendment to S. 96, the Y2K Act, at the appropriate time. The substitute amendment we will be offering is a bipartisan effort. We worked diligently with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to address concerns, narrow some provisions, and assure this bill will sunset when it is no longer pertinent and necessary. 
   Senator WYDEN, who said at our committee markup that he wanted to get to ``yes,'' worked tirelessly with me to get there. He and others--but he especially--have offered excellent suggestions and comments. I think the substitute we bring today is a better piece of legislation for his efforts. 
   Specifically, the substitute would provide time for plaintiffs and defendants to resolve Y2K problems without litigation. It reiterates the plaintiff's duty to mitigate damages and highlights the defendant's opportunity to assist plaintiffs in doing that by providing information and resources. 
   That provides for proportional liability in most cases, with exceptions for fraudulent or intentional conduct, or where the plaintiff has limited assets. It protects governmental entities, including municipalities, schools, fire, water, and sanitation districts, from punitive damages. It eliminates punitive damage limits for egregious conduct, while providing some protection against runaway punitive damage awards. And it provides protection for those not directly involved in a Y2K failure. 
   The bill, as amended, does not cover personal injury and wrongful death cases. It is important to keep in mind the broad support that this bill has from virtually every segment of our economy. This bill is important not only to the high-tech industry, or only to big business, but it carries the strong support of small businesses, retailers, and wholesalers. 
   Many of those supporting the bill will find themselves as both plaintiffs and defendants. They have weighed the benefits and drawbacks of the provisions of this bill and have overwhelmingly concluded that their chief priority is to prevent and fix Y2K problems and make our technology work, not divert the resources into time-consuming and costly litigation. 
   One of the most troubling aspects of the looming Y2K problem is the new industry being created by opportunistic lawyers. Many companies feel they are ``damned if they do, dammed if they don't'' when it comes to acknowledging potential Y2K failures. If they do not say anything and later have a problem, they will certainly be sued. But if they say something now, they may still be sued, and before anything even has gone wrong. Over 80 lawsuits, mostly class actions, have already been filed and we are still many months away from the year 2000. 
   The SEC reported in February that many companies are not complying with the SEC disclosure requirements either as to what actions they are taking to prepare, how much the effort is costing, or what contingency plans are being put into place. The Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Problem reported February 24--and I quote--``Fear of litigation and loss of competitive advantage are the most commonly cited reasons for barebones disclosure.'' 
   It is my hope that S. 96 will be the catalyst for technology producers to work with technology users to ensure a seamless transition from the 1990s to the year 2000. The goal is to make January 1 a nonevent. 
   The purposes of this legislation is to ensure that we solve the Y2K technology glitch rather than clog our courts with years of costly litigation. The purpose is to ensure a continued, stable economy, which obviously is beneficial to everyone in our country. 
   The bill encourages efficient resolution of failures by requiring plaintiffs to afford their potential defendants an opportunity to remedy the failure and make things right before facing a lawsuit. We should encourage people to talk to each other, to try to address and remedy problems in a timely and professional manner. 
   The potential for litigation to overwhelm the Nation's judicial system is very real. We must reserve the judicial system for the most egregious cases involving Y2K problems. Litigation costs have been estimated as high as $1 trillion. Certainly the burden of paying for litigation will be distributed to the public in the form of increased costs for 
   technological goods and services. 
   The potential drain on the Nation's economy, and the world's economy, from both fixing the computer systems and responding to litigation, is staggering. While the estimates being circulated are speculative, the cost of making the corrections in all the computer systems in the country is astronomical. Chase Manhattan Bank has been quoted as spending $250 million to fix problems with its 200 million lines of affected computer code. The estimated cost of fixing the problem in the United States ranges from $200 billion to $1 trillion. The resources which would be directed to litigation are resources that would not be available for continued improvements in technology, producing new products, and maintaining the economy that supports the position of the United States as a world leader.  
   As I said last week, time is of the essence. If this bill is going to have the intended effect of encouraging proactive prevention and remediation of Y2K problems, it has to be passed quickly. This bill will have limited value if it is passed later this fall. 
   Senator HOLLINGS, my friend, has expressed in committee his concerns. I want to state up front that while we disagree, we have never been disagreeable. I respect his views; we just disagree on this matter. And I know, as I said earlier, we will have a lively debate on this bill. 
   I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to give careful consideration to the substitute amendment and join with me, Senator WYDEN, and our other cosponsors, Senators GORTON, ABRAHAM, LOTT, FRIST, BURNS, SMITH of Oregon, and SANTORUM, in bringing this substitute to fruition. It makes sense, it is practical, and we need it now. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, the first letter I would like to quote briefly from is from the National Federation of Independent Business, the Voice of Small Business.  
   On behalf of the 600,000 members of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), I would like to thank you for helping the nation's small business community prepare for the millennium. 
   NFIB strongly supports S. 96 ..... specifically the provisions that limit punitive damages and urge quick resolution of legal disputes. We believe that S. 96 creates a fair and level playing field for the settlement of year 2000 (Y2K) disputes. 
   Because small business owners operate on such a slim profit margin, every second and every dollar counts. Therefore, legislation addressing Y2K litigation must provide a speedy and effective solution to disputes. Small businesses do not have the luxury of waiting months or years for courts to replace lost revenues or failed products. S. 96 encourages the use of alternate dispute resolution (ADR) and provides a ``cooling off" period during which disputes can be resolved outside of court. NFIB's goal is to keep small businesses out of court, and we believe S. 96 will do that in most cases. 
   We do realize that some businesses will--and should--resolve their disputes in court. Regardless of whether they would be plaintiffs or defendants, 93% of NFIB members support limiting punitive damages. Caps help eliminate frivolous lawsuits and the unnecessary expenditure of legal fees by small businesses.  
   That is from the National Federation of Independent Business. 
   There are those who have argued in the media that this legislation is simply there to support the ``high-tech community'' and large corporations. I don't think that would make it possible for the NFIB, which represents 600,000 members, to support this legislation. 
   Next I would like to briefly quote from the American Insurance Association, which represents nearly 300 property casualty/insurers with millions of policyholders and thousands of employees across the Nation. Member companies insure families, small businesses and large businesses in every State.  
   Even with this commitment and dedication to minimizing Y2K disruption, we can expect problems to occur. And unfortunately in our litigious society, lawsuits or the fear of lawsuits will inhibit solutions and multiply the disruptive impact of system failures. 
   [Again,] on behalf of the member companies of the American Insurance Association, I urge you to support the year 2000 reforms on final passage and cloture.  
   The Intel Corporation, Tosco, the leading technology corporations, many of the leading technology industry companies in America, including the CEO of American Electronics Association, President and CEO of Alexander Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, CEO of Marimba, Managing Director of Merrill Lynch, chairman and CEO of Novell, Chairman and CEO of FileNet, and the list goes on of leading presidents and CEOs of the high-tech industries in America, MicroAge, Alcatel, and the International Mass Retail Association--all these organizations and more support this legislation. I don't think they necessarily do so for selfish reasons, although certainly they are motivated to a large degree by their ability to provide the 
   necessary profits to their shareholders. 
   But I think also they are more committed to making sure that this incredible economy that we are experiencing would continue to provide so many jobs and opportunities for so many Americans, without draining hundreds of billions of dollars from the economy. 
   My friend, Senator HOLLINGS, has asserted that S. 96 is the camel's nose under the tent for product liability and tort reform. I clearly do not believe that is the case. I am a strong supporter of product liability tort reform, but I believe that this legislation clearly is not the case. It contains a sunset provision to assure that this is considered, as it should be, a temporary measure to deal with a unique situation. 
   The sunset language in section 4(a) of the bill provides that the act applies to a Y2K failure occurring before January 1 of the year 2003, hardly a victory for widespread tort or product liability reform. The potential for massive litigation involving virtually every industrial segment of our country, both small businesses and large, compels a rational and practical solution to prevent litigation from destroying the economic well-being of the country. 
   There is a need for this bill, Madam President. I will just point out one example of opportunistic legislation. I am told that Mr. Tom Johnson, acting as a private attorney general under California consumer protection laws, has brought an action against a group of retailers, including Circuit City, Office Depot, Office Max, CompUSA, Staples, Fryes, and the Good Guys, Incorporated for failing to warn consumers about products that are not Y2K compliant. He has not alleged any injury or economic damage to himself, but pursuant to State statute, has requested relief in the amount of all of the defendants' profits from 1995 to date from selling these products and restitution to ``all members of the California general public.'' 
   Although he claims that numerous products are involved, he has not specified which products are covered by his allegations, but has generally named products by Toshiba, IBM, Compaq, Intuit, Hewlett Packard and Microsoft. 
   This is precisely, Madam President, the type of frivolous and opportunistic lawsuit which would be avoided by S. 96. Rather than have all of these named companies wasting time and resources preparing a defense for this case, S. 96 would direct the focus to fixing real problems. In this instance, it does not appear that Mr. Johnson has an actual problem. But if he does, he would need to articulate what is not working due to a Y2K failure. The company or companies responsible would then have an opportunity to address and fix the specific problem. If the problem isn't fixed, then Mr. Johnson would be free to bring his suit. 
   It is crystal clear that the real reason for this lawsuit is not to fix a problem that Mr. Johnson has with any of his computer hardware or software, but to see whether he can convince the companies involved that it is cheaper to buy him off in a settlement than to litigate, even if the case is eventually dismissed or decided in their favor. This case is the tip of the iceberg. 
   If thousands of similar suits are brought after January 1, the judicial system will be overrun and the Nation's economy will be thrown into turmoil. This is a senseless and needless abuse that we can avoid by passing S. 96. 
   Madam President, there are numerous provisions in this bill, but I just want to repeat one of the most crucial aspects of this legislation. If a problem is identified, then whoever it is that is the manufacturer has 90 days in order to fix the problem. If they do not fix the problem, then go to court. But it is hard for me to understand why a company or corporation who manufactured this particular product should not be allowed to have an opportunity to fix the problem for the user. It makes perfect sense--how could anyone object to such a thing--because these companies and corporations, if they are not committed to fix the problem, then they should be sued. That is what our court system is all about. But it makes perfect sense to me to give them an opportunity to fix a problem that they may not have knowledge of before they find themselves all day hauled into court. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I note the presence of the Senator from Washington on the floor, and I yield the floor at this time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I yield to the Senator from Washington such time as he may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I thank the Senator from Washington for his kind remarks, but most importantly for his deep involvement in this issue. As a former attorney general of his State, he understands these issues better than I do, and his assistance in this effort is extremely valuable and important. 
   Madam President, I don't have any speakers at this time. I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 27, the Senate proceed to the consideration of S. 96, the Y2K legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Special Committee on Aging be permitted to meet on April 26, 1999 at 1:00-5:00 p.m. in Dirksen 106 for the purpose of conducting a hearing. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to join Senators LOTT, DOMENICI, and others in cosponsoring this amendment to S..577, The Budget Reform Act. I was an original cosponsor along with Senator ABRAHAM and others of the legislation upon which the Lott-Domenici amendment is based. 
   This amendment expresses clearly our commitment to protect the Social Security Trust Fund for current and future beneficiaries. This legislation reiterates the importance of adhering to the provisions of the 1990 law that prevented Congress and the President from using Social Security surpluses to mask the size of annual budget deficits. It also urges the establishment of a budgetary ``lock box'' for Social Security funds, with effective enforcement mechanism, to prevent Congress and the President from using Social Security receipts to pay for other government spending or to offset tax cuts. 
   We all have seen the predictions that the Social Security system will be bankrupt in 2032, short-changing the millions of Americans who included Social Security benefit payments in their retirement planning. Simply walling off the Trust Fund from depletion for other purposes will not solve this long-term problem. Clearly, we must continue to work to find a viable long-term solution to the financial problems of the Social Security system that restructures the system in a manner which provides working Americans with the opportunity, choices, and flexibility necessary to ensure their future retirement needs are fully met. At the same time, we must guarantee that everyone who has worked and invested in the Social Security system receives the benefits they were promised, without placing an unfair burden on today's workers.  
   Saving Social Security should not be a partisan issue. For our parents today and our grandchildren tomorrow, saving Social Security is too important for politics to guide us rather than principle. With predictions of sustained budget surpluses for at least the next ten years, saving Social Security should be our first priority. 
   I endorse the President's proposal to set aside two-thirds of the estimated $2.8 trillion non-Social Security surplus to shore up the Social Security system. However, I question whether the President is truly wedded to saving Social Security. His own budget shows that he does not set aside a single extra dollar for Social Security for at least ten years. Instead, he spends the surplus on new government programs. 
   It is also alarming that the President feels that the government should become an institutional investor in the stock market, using Social Security funds. The government has no business going into business. How could the government bring action against a company for violating anti-trust laws if it has a large equity investment in that same company? And can anyone fathom how the forces of political correctness might distort the market? Would the government eventually become the majority stockholder in Ben and Jerry's? 
   Saving Social Security has one simple objective: to guarantee that everyone who has worked and invested in Social Security receives the benefits they were promised. We must establish an effective ``lock box'' to ensure that 100 percent of Social Security receipts go to the Social Security trust fund and stay there earning interest. We must stop the federal government from stealing money from the Social Security trust fund to pay for its excessive spending habits. Social Security is a sacred promise which must not be broken. Fiscally responsible members of Congress must stand up and not allow the Federal Government to take the hard-earned money of taxpayers and threaten the financial security of our nation's retirement system. 
   Let me just point out that walling off the Social Security Trust Fund and reserving future surpluses to ensure the solvency of our nation's retirement system does not mean we can not also have a tax cut. Americans need and deserve a tax cut. Federal taxes consume nearly 21 percent of America's gross domestic product, the highest level since World War II. A recent Congressional Research Study found that over the next ten years an average American family will pay $5,307 more in taxes than the government needs to operate. Congress did not balance the budget so Washington spending could grow unnecessarily at the taxpayer's expense. Letting the American people keep more of their own money to spend on their priorities will continue to fuel the economy and help create more small business jobs and other employment opportunities. 
   We can provide meaningful tax relief to American families and still save Social Security. The Federal Government wastes billions of dollars every year on pork-barrel spending projects, much of which is earmarked by powerful Members of Congress for their home states and districts. Just this past year, Congress directed over $9 billion to special-interest projects. We also continue to allow businesses to use tax loopholes and other subsidies that do not make economic sense. According to the Progressive Policy Institute, we could easily save $200 billion over the next five years by eliminating inequitable corporate subsidies, including phasing out operating subsidies for Amtrak and eliminating the ethanol tax credit. 
   We can and should pay for tax relief for middle-class Americans and families with the money we throw away on pork-barrel projects and inequitable corporate subsidies, not money raided from Social Security surpluses. 
   Mr. President, on behalf of the millions of Americans who have paid into the Social Security system for decades and those who are working and paying into the system today, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and demonstrate their continued commitment to truly saving Social Security for future generations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. No. I will always do what the Senator from South Carolina says. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, obviously I am disappointed that we did not proceed to S. 96. I am encouraged by the comments of the Senator from Massachusetts and others. The Senator from Oregon and I are continuing to have a dialog also with the Senator from Connecticut, Mr. DODD, and, of course, with the distinguished Democrat on the committee, Senator HOLLINGS. 
   So I hope we can come to some agreement. I am given occasionally to flights of rhetoric, but the fact is, this is a very, very serious issue and one that we really cannot delay too much longer. The clock is ticking. We need to move forward. There may be some differences. 
   I don't think anybody believes that we need to do something destructive. 
   This problem is critically important. The potential for litigation to overwhelm the judicial system for the most egregious cases involving Y2K problems is very real. Litigation costs have been estimated as high as $1 trillion. Certainly the burden of paying for litigation will be distributed to the public in the form of increased costs in technological goods and services. 
   The potential drain on the Nation's economy and the world's economy from fixing computer systems and responding to litigation is staggering. While the estimates being circulated are speculative, the costs of making the corrections in all the computer systems in the country are astronomical. Chase Manhattan Bank has been quoted as spending $250 million to fix problems with its 200 million lines of affected computer codes. The estimated costs of fixing the problem in the United States ranges from $200 billion to $1 trillion. The resources which would be directed to litigation are resources that would not be available for continued improvements in technology-producing new products and maintaining the economy that supports the United States position as a world leader. 
   Time is of the essence. If the bill is going to have the intended effect of encouraging proactive prevention and remediation of Y2K problems, it has to be passed quickly. This bill will have limited value if it is to be passed after the August recess. I urge my colleagues to vote for cloture on Monday when we move forward with that. 
   I have a number of letters, studies, and a lot of information I will present when we move to the bill. I will be very clear. From the technology network, we have letters of support from Cisco Systems, Intel, Microsoft, American Online, Merrill Lynch, Novell, Adobe Systems, Alexander Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, Platinum Software, American Electronics Association, Marimba, Inc., NVCA, Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers, LSI Logic--the list goes on and on. 
   This is an important issue to the high-tech industry in America. It is very important. It is of critical importance as to how these corporations that are leading the American economy are able to proceed with the business of business rather than the business of litigation. 
   I hope all of my colleagues will support this legislation and that we can move forward. As the Senator from Connecticut will state, we still have differences but we are working hard on working those out with the Senator from Oregon, the Senator from Massachusetts, and of course, the much esteemed Senator from South Carolina, Mr. HOLLINGS. 
   I see my other colleagues would like to make comments on this very important issue. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990421</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, when the Commerce Committee filed the report for S. 96, the Y2K Act, the Congressional Budget Office had not completed the cost estimate for the bill. Recently, the committee received the estimate. In summary, the estimate concludes that the measure would most likely result in a savings to the Federal court system. I look forward to debating this measure, and I ask unanimous consent that the report be printed in the RECORD. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill to extend the commercial space launch indemnification. 
   As a result of the discussions over the last year on the alleged China technology transfer situation, the need to ensure that the United States launch companies maintain a competitive position in the International launch market has never been greater. One of the more important features of the Commercial Space Launch Act (``CSLA'') to the commercial industry is the comprehensive risk allocation provisions. The provisions are comprised of: (1) cross-waivers of liability among launch participants; (2) a demonstration of financial responsibility; and (3) a commitment (subject to appropriations) by the U.S. Government to pay successful third party claims above $500 million. 
   Since its establishment, this three-pronged approach has been extremely attractive to the customers, contractors, and subcontractors of the U.S. launch licensee and to the contractors and subcontractors of its customers, as they are all participants in and beneficiaries of CSLA. As such, it has enabled the U.S. launch services industry to compete effectively with its foreign counterparts who offer similar coverage.  
   This ability to compete effectively will be threatened on December 31, 1999. At that time, the most important element of the CSLA insurance section, the U.S. Government payment of claims provision, is scheduled to sunset. Without this provision, the advances in market share that this burgeoning U.S. industry has made--an industry that is critical to U.S. national security, foreign policy and economic interests--will be lost. 
   The indemnification has been extended previously for a period of 5 years. This bill extends the authorization for this indemnification for an additional 10 years. With this length of extension, companies will be able to finalize strategic plans in a more stable environment. 
   Therefore, I, along with my cosponsors, urge the Members of this body to support this bill and to provide the needed legislation which will allow this key industry continuous operation in a safe and responsible manner. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to provide consumers with a true choice when they purchase auto insurance. Not simply a choice between to insurance companies, but a choice between two different systems of insurance. 
   The current tort based liability system is expensive and inefficient. It pays more money to lawyers than for victims legitimate medical bills and lost wages. A study conducted in my home state of Arizona found that a low-income family spends as much as 31 percent of their disposable income on car insurance. As a result, families put off basic necessities such as rent, medical care and sometimes groceries. The current system needs to be changed. 
   The system proposed in our bill would allow consumers a more affordable alternative designed to provide adequate and timely compensation for accident victims and less need for layers. Under the new system when an accident occurs, the consumer's insurance company would compensate them for their economic losses, such as repair costs, medical bills and lost wages. In exchange, the consumer forgoes the right to sue for non-economic losses such as pain and suffering. 
   Consumers choosing to remain in the current system can bring suit as they do now. These consumers would purchase additional coverage to cover their non-economic damages in the event they have an accident with someone in the new system. 
   The purpose of this legislation is to allow consumers to choose the type of insurance that meets their needs. It also provides state legislatures a choice. This legislation allows states to ``opt out'' should they disagree with this proposal. States can ``opt out'' in two ways. First, the legislature can enact legislation declaring they will not participate in the new system. Secondly, the state insurance commissioner can find that the measure will not reduce bodily injury premiums by 30 percent. This opt out provision is reasonable and will give states a true choice. 
   Again, I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this measure. I look forward to moving it through the legislative process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I introduce a joint resolution cosponsored by Senators BIDEN, COCHRAN, HAGEL, LIEBERMAN, LUGAR, DODD and ROBB. 
   Before I go into my statement, I will mention that the Veterans of Foreign Wars today will be issuing a statement regarding their support for this resolution. The Veterans of Foreign Wars statement will read:  
   The United States, acting as a part of the NATO alliance, should use a full range of force in an overwhelming and decisive manner to meet its objectives.  
   I think it is important to note that this resolution would be supported by those American veterans who have fought in foreign wars. 
   As my colleagues know, I am concerned that the force the United States and our NATO allies have employed against Serbia, gradually escalating airstrikes, is insufficient to achieve our political objectives there, which are the removal of the Serb military and security forces from Kosovo, the return of the refugees to their homes, and the establishment of a NATO-led peacekeeping force. 
   I hope this resolution, should it be adopted, will encourage the administration and our allies to find the courage and resolve to prosecute this war in the manner most likely to result in its early end and successful conclusion. In other words, I hope this resolution will make clear Congress' support for adopting our means to secure our ends rather than the reverse. But that is not our central purpose today. Our central purpose is to encourage Congress to meet its responsibilities, responsibilities that we have thus far evaded. 
   Many of my colleagues oppose this war and would prefer that the United States immediately withdraw from a Balkan conflict which they judge to be a quagmire so far removed from America's interests that the cost of victory cannot be justified. I disagree, but I respect their opinion as honest and honorable. I believe that they would welcome the opportunity to express their opposition by the means available to Congress. 
   Those of us who support this intervention and those who may have had reservations about either its necessity or its initial direction but are now committed to winning it should also welcome this resolution as the instrument for doing our duty, as we have called on so many fine young Americans to do their duty at the risk of their lives. If those who oppose this war and any widening of it prevail, so be it. The President will pursue his present course as authorized by earlier congressional resolutions until its failure demands we settle on Mr. Milosevic's terms. 
   Those of our colleagues who feel that course is preferable to the price that would be incurred by fully prosecuting this war can rightly claim that they followed the demands of conscience and Constitution, but they must also be accountable to the country and the world for whatever negative consequences ensue from our failure. Should those of us who want to use all necessary force to win this war prevail, then we must accept the responsibility for the losses incurred in its prosecution. That is the only honorable course. 
   But no matter which view any Senator holds, should this resolution be adopted at the end of a thorough debate, all Members of Congress should then unite to support the early and complete accomplishment of our mission in Kosovo. 
   Silence and equivocation will not unburden us of our responsibility to support or oppose the war. I do not recommend lightly the course I have called on the President to pursue. I know, as should any one who votes for this resolution, that if Americans die in a land war with Serbia, we will bear a considerable share of the blame for their loss. We are as accountable to their families as the President must be. 
   But I would rather face that sad burden than hide from my conscience because I sought an ambiguous political position to seek shelter behind. Nor could I easily bear the dishonor of having known that my country's interests demanded a course of action, but avoided taking it because the costs of defending them were substantial, as were its attendant political risks. 
   Congress, no less than the administration, must show the resolve and confidence of a superpower whose cause is just and imperative. Let us all, President and Senator alike, show the courage of our convictions in this critical hour. Let us declare ourselves in support of or opposition to this war, and the many sacrifices it will entail. Our duty demands it. 
   Mr. President, I reserve the remainder of my time. 
   Mr. COCHRAN addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990420</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield as much time as the Senator from Mississippi may consume.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990419</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am renewing my efforts to provide innovative solutions to address urgently needed repairs and enhancements at our nation's parks. The legislation I am introducing today is nearly identical to the bill I sponsored in the 105th Congress, which received substantial support from many of the organizations supporting the National Parks system. I am pleased that Representative KOLBE will introduce companion legislation in the House. 
   The National Parks Capital Improvements Act of 1999 would help secure taxable revenue bonding authority for National Parks. This legislation would allow private fundraising organizations to enter into agreements with the Secretary of Interior to issue taxable capital development bonds. Bond revenues would then be used to finance park improvement projects. The bonds would be secured by an entrance fee surcharge of up to $2 per visitor at participating parks, or a set-aside of up to $2 per visitor from current entrance fees. 
   Our national park system has enormous capital needs--by last estimate, over $3 billion for high-priority projects such as improved transportation systems, trail repairs, visitor facilities, historic preservation, and the list goes on and on. The unfortunate reality is that even under the rosiest budget scenarios, our growing park needs far outstrip the resources currently available. Parks are still struggling to address enormous resource and infrastructure needs while seeking to improve the park experience to accommodate the increasing numbers of visitors to recreation sites. 
   Revenue bonding would take us a long way toward meeting our needs within the national park system. For example, based on current visitation rates at the Grand Canyon, a $2 surcharge would enable us to raise $100 million from a bond issue amortized  over 20 years. That is a significant amount of money which we could use to accomplish many critical park projects. 
   Let me emphasize, however, the Grand Canyon National Park would not be the only park eligible to benefit from this legislation. Any park unit with capital needs in excess of $5 million is eligible to participate. Among eligible parks, the Secretary of Interior will determine which may take part in the program. 
   I also want to stress that only projects approved as part of a park's general management plan can be funded through bond revenue. This proviso eliminates any concern that the revenue could be used for projects of questionable value to the park. 
   In addition, only organizations under agreement with the Secretary of Interior will be authorized to administer the bonding, so the Secretary can establish any rules or policies he deems necessary and appropriate. 
   Under no circumstances, however, would investors be able to attach liens against Federal property in the very unlikely event of default. The bonds will be secured only by the surcharge revenues. 
   Finally, the bill specifies that all professional standards apply and that the issues are subject to the same laws, rules, and regulatory enforcement procedures as any other bond issue. 
   The most obvious question raised by this legislation is: Will the bond markets support park improvement issues, guaranteed by an entrance surcharge? The answer is an emphatic yes. Bonding is a well-tested tool for the private sector. Additionally, Americans are eager to invest in our Nation's natural heritage, and with park visitation growing stronger, the risks appear minimal. 
   Are park visitors willing to pay a little more at the entrance gate if the money is used for park improvements? Again, I believe the answer is yes. Time and time again, visitors have expressed their support for increased fees provided that the revenue is used where collected and not diverted for some other purpose devised by Congress. The National Park Service conducted a survey last year which indicated that nearly 83 percent of participating respondents were satisfied with their paid fees, or thought the fees too low. 
   With the fee demonstration program currently being implemented at parks around the Nation, an additional $2 surcharge may not be necessary or appropriate at certain parks. Under the bill, those parks could choose to dedicate $2 per park visitor from current entrance fees toward a bond issue. The latest figures from the National Park Service indicate that revenues from fees doubled in 1998 to $180 million. This legislation can easily complement the recreational fee program to increase benefits to support our parks and increase the quality of America's park experience well into the future. 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues and National Parks supporters to ensure passage of this legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I will vote today, somewhat reluctantly, in support of the Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Resolution. I say reluctantly because I am very concerned about the inadequate level of funding provided in this resolution for national defense. 
   On the positive side, this budget resolution establishes a road map for this Congress to enact the largest tax cut since the Reagan Administration, lock up the Social Security surplus, shore up Medicare, substantially reduce the public debt, and still keep spending within the limits established in the 1997 bipartisan budget agreement. It also provides the largest increase in history, $1.8 billion above the President's budget, for veterans' health care, which has been consistently underfunded for years. 
   Most important, the resolution takes an important step toward preserving Social Security for current and future recipients. It reaffirms the 1990 law, now expired, that prohibited using the Social Security Trust Fund surpluses to offset other spending, and it establishes a new point of order against spending any of the Social Security surplus on anything other than payment of Social Security benefits or reforming the system. This resolution walls off the Social Security Trust Fund so that money paid in by taxpayers for their retirement cannot be stolen by spendthrift politicians to pay for their favorite pork-barrel projects or new government programs of dubious merit. 
   Saving Social Security and providing greater retirement security for our citizens should be our first priority. We must find a viable solution to the impending bankruptcy of Social Security which restructures the system in a manner which provides working Americans with the opportunity, choices, and flexibility necessary to ensure their future retirement needs are fully met. Everyone who has worked and invested in the Social Security system must be guaranteed to receive the benefits they were promised, but reform must not  place an unfair burden on today's workers. Until we find that solution, however, it is imperative that we shore up the system to ensure payment of benefits will continue, on time and in full, to everyone who has earned them. 
   To do this, we must not only protect the existing Social Security surplus, as this resolution does, but ensure that additional funds are available, if needed, to shore up the system in the absence of meaningful reforms. The President's ``smoke and mirrors'' budget promised to save 62 percent of the non-Social Security surplus to shore up Social Security, but that has been shown to be a baseless claim when his budget is carefully analyzed. Unfortunately, this budget resolution did not dedicate additional funds to save Social Security either. I believe we should set aside a significant portion of the additional surplus to extend the fiscal viability of the system 
   and ease the fears of our senior citizens, and I intend to work to see that happen. 
   Locking up the Social Security Trust Fund surplus and setting aside a significant portion of the non-Social Security surplus does not mean we cannot also provide significant tax relief to those who need it most--lower- and middle-income Americans and their families. The Budget Resolution provides for $142.3 billion in tax relief over the next five years, amounting to $779.9 billion over ten years. The tax cuts are appropriately targeted toward eliminating the marriage penalty, expanding the lowest 15% tax bracket, estate tax relief, more favorable tax treatment of health insurance cost for the self-employed, and capital gains tax fairness for farmers. 
   But Americans need and deserve an even bigger tax cut. Federal taxes consume nearly 21% of America's gross domestic product, the highest level since World War II. A recent Congressional Research Service study found that, over the next ten years, an average American family will pay $5,307 in taxes over and above what the government needs to operate. Congress did not balance the budget so Washington spending and government bureaucracy could continue to grow at the taxpayers expense. Letting the American people keep more of their own money to spend on their priorities will continue to fuel the economy and help create more small business jobs and other employment opportunities. 
   The tax cuts in this Budget Resolution are significant, but I think we should return even more of the surplus back to the taxpayers. I believe we should reserve part of the non-Social Security surplus to shore up the system and give a bigger tax cut to American families, which would be paid for partially by closing tax loopholes and eliminating inequitable corporate subsidies to offset the cost. 
   Saving Social Security, cutting taxes, providing for our veterans, and many other aspects of this Budget Resolution are sufficient reason to vote for it. However, the shortfall in defense spending in this budget raises very serious concerns. 
   It is no secret that there are serious readiness, retention and recruiting problems throughout the military. The Service Chiefs testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee in September last year, and again in January, that they require an additional $20 billion over the fiscal year 1999 budget in fiscal year 2000 to stop declining force readiness. The President, after promising an additional $12 billion, only added $4 billion in his budget request. Then, during this year's budget hearings, the Service Secretaries and Chiefs confirmed that readiness unfunded requirements still exist and submitted lists to meet their readiness requirements. Yet the Budget Resolution does not provide sufficient funding to meet the minimum requirements of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to adequately fund critical readiness, personnel and modernization programs. 
   The Conference Report veils its underfunding of vital defense programs by putting an additional $8.3 billion for Fiscal Year 2000 in the Pentagon's bank in the form of increased budget authority, but because of the arcane scorekeeping rules of the Congressional Budget Office, the Services would not be able to actually spend that money because it would exceed the outlay cap. Fortunately, the conference agreement provides $2 billion more in outlays than the Senate version, but the spending limit is still $6.7 billion less than the President's budget when 
   estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. And the resolution shortchanges defense next year and every year thereafter. 
   Earlier this year, the Senate passed legislation of which I was a primary architect, along with Senator ROBERTS, Majority Leader LOTT and Senator WARNER. This legislation, the ``Soldiers', Sailors', Airmen's, and Marines' Bill of Rights Act of 1999'', would restore military retirement benefits to a full 50 percent of base pay for 20-year retirees, includes a 4.8 percent pay raise effective January 1, 2000, pay table reform, Thrift Savings Plan proposals, and a Special Subsistence Allowance to help the neediest families in the Armed Forces who now require federal food stamp assistance. This Budget Resolution puts all these recruitment and retention tools in jeopardy because it does not provide the dollars needed to fulfill these promises to our service members and their families. 
   Mr. President, the nuclear carrier U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-65) is currently deployed in the Persian Gulf, undermanned by some 800 sailors. We are losing pilots to the commercial airlines faster than we can train them. The Navy has one-half the F/A-18 pilots, one-third of the S-3 pilots, and only one-quarter of the EA-6B pilots it needs. Only 26 percent of the Air Force pilots have committed to stay beyond their current service agreement. The Army says that five of its ten divisions lack enough majors, captains, senior enlisted personnel, tankers and gunners. 
   The military's problems do not stop at recruiting and retention issues. For example, the Army's number one modernization program, the Comanche helicopter, is undergoing flight testing with just one asset. If that helicopter has a serious malfunction or is lost, who knows how long the program will be delayed. The Army has another test platform but has testified that they simply cannot afford to fly it. 
   With the recent deployment in the Balkans, the world watched night after night as the Air Force's main bomber, the B-52, was once again called to duty to deliver air launched cruise missiles in combat. How many times has the Air Force called upon this 40-year old workhorse to deliver devastating firepower? The B-52 bomber was already old when I saw it fly in Vietnam, and yet the Air Force plan will carry the current bomber fleet through the next 40 years, with a replacement to the B-52 tentatively planned in 2037. 
   The Navy is struggling to maintain a fleet of 300 ships, down from over 500 in the early 1990s. The fiscal year 2000 budget will not support a Navy of even 200 ships. The Marine Corps saves money in spare parts by retreading light trucks and Humvees, so as to afford small arms ammunition for forward deployed Marines. 
   The list goes on and on, but what we must recognize is that it illustrates very serious readiness problems that continue to grow and must be stopped if we hope to preserve the world's finest military and continue to support the men and women in uniform, many of whom are in harm's way in Operation Allied Force in Kosovo today. 
   Mr. President, I could go on, but suffice it to say that the military needs more money to redress the serious problems caused by more than a decade of declining defense budgets. Those of us who have been criticized for sounding alarm bells about military readiness now have the empty satisfaction of seeing that there is more to maintaining a strong defense than a politician's history of falsely promising to do so. What is at risk, without exaggeration, are the lives of our military personnel and the national security of the United States. 
   Mr. President, for many years, the Services have struggled to make do with the funding we provide to them, as Congress persists in draining away resources for low-priority, wasteful, pork-barrel spending projects. After hearing from the Service Chiefs in testimony this year, I hope my colleagues are prepared to halt the long-standing practice of earmarking funds for home-state programs and special interest items. If not, we will exacerbate the dangers of failing to provide the resources necessary to maintain military readiness and our war-fighting capability.  
   Mr. President, I will vote for this Budget Resolution because it provides a measure of tax relief, additional veterans funding, and, most important, locks up the Social Security Trust Fund for Social Security. But I am gravely concerned about the defense spending levels in this budget, and I intend to do everything I can to ensure that every dollar in the Defense and Military Construction Appropriations bills is used for high-priority defense requirements, like recruiting and retention incentives, operations and training, and urgent modernization programs. I urge my colleagues to put aside their parochial interests and join me in that effort. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the pending legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990415</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, yesterday I introduced a bill to ``Promote Reliable On-Line Transactions to Encourage Commerce and Trade,'' the PROTECT Act. This legislation seeks to promote electronic commerce by encouraging and facilitating the use of encryption in interstate commerce consistent with the protection of United States law enforcement and national security goals and missions. 
   During the last Congress, there was a very intense debate surrounding the encryption issue. That debate, as with any discussion regarding encryption technology, centered around the challenge of balancing free trade objectives with national security and law enforcement interests. There were various proposals put forward. None, however, emerged as a viable solution. In the end, the debate became polarized, as many became entrenched upon basic approaches, losing sight of the overall policy objectives upon which everyone generally agreed. 
   It was my objective to get outside the box of last year's debate. In the past, balancing commercial and national security interests has been treated as a zero sum game, as if the only way to forward commercial interest was at the expense of national security, or vice versa. This is simply not the case. Certainly, advanced encryption technologies present a unique set of challenges for the national security and law enforcement community. However, these challenges are not insurmountable. 
   What the PROTECT Act does, is to lay out a forward-looking approach to encryption exportation, a course that puts into place a rational, fact-based procedure for making export decisions, that places high priority on bringing the national security and law enforcement community up to speed in a digital age, and that ultimately provides a national security backstop to make certain that advanced encryption products do not fall into the hands of those who would threaten the national security interests of the United States. 
   Title I of the legislation deals with domestic encryption. The bill establishes that private sector use, development, manufacture, sale, distribution and import of encryption products, standards and services shall be voluntary and market driven. Further, the government is prevented from tying encryption used for confidentiality to encryption used for authentification. It is established that it is lawful for any person in the United States, and for any U.S. person in a foreign country, to develop, manufacture, sell, distribute, import, or use any encryption product. 
   The PROTECT Act prohibits mandatory government access to plaintext. The bill prohibits the government from standards setting or creating approvals or incentives for providing government access to plaintext, while preserving existing authority for law enforcement and national security agencies to obtain access to information under existing law. 
   Title II of the legislation deals with government procurement procedures.  The bill makes clear that it shall be the policy of the Federal government to permit the public to interact with the government through commercial networks and infrastructure and protect the privacy and security of any electronic communications and stored information obtained by the public. 
   The Federal government is encouraged to purchase encryption products for its own use, but is required to ensure that such products will interoperate with other commercial encryption products, and the government is prohibited from requiring citizens to use a specific encryption product to interact with the government. 
   Title II of the PROTECT Act authorizes and directs NIST to complete establishment of the Advanced Encrytion Standard by January 1, 2002. Further, the bill ensures the process is led by the private sector and open to comment. Beyond the NIST role in establishing the AES, the Commerce Department is expressly prohibited from setting encryption standards--including U.S. export controls--for private computers. 
   A critical component of the PROTECT Act is improving the government's technological capabilities. Much of the concern from law enforcement and national security agencies is rooted in the unfortunate reality that the government lags desperately behind in their understanding of advanced technologies, and their ability to achieve goals and missions in the digital age. 
   This legislation expands NIST's Information Technology Laboratory duties to include: (a) obtaining information regarding the most current hardware, software, telecommunications and other capabilities to understand how to access information transmitted across networks; (b) researching and developing new and emerging techniques and technologies to facilitate access to communications and electronic information; (c) researching and developing methods to detect and prevent unwanted intrusions into commercial computer networks; (d) providing assistance in responding to information security threats at the request of other Federal agencies and law enforcement; (e) facilitating the development and adoption of ``best information security practices'' between the agencies and the private sector. 
   The duties of the Computer System Security and Privacy Board are expanded to include providing a forum for communication and coordination between industry and the Federal government regarding information security issues, and fostering dissemination of general, nonproprietary and nonconfidential developments in important information security technologies to appropriate federal agencies. 
   Title V of the legislation deals with the export of encryption products. The Secretary of Commerce is granted sole jurisdiction over commercial encryption products, except those specifically designed or modified for military use, including command and control and intelligence applications. The legislation clarifies that the U.S. government may continue to impose export controls on all encryption products to terrorist countries, and embargoed countries; that the U.S. government may continue to prohibit exports of 
   particular encryption products to specific individuals, organizations, country, or countries; and that encryption products remain subject to all export controls imposed for any reason other than the existence of encryption in the product. 
   Encryption products utilizing a key length of 64 bits or less are decontrolled. Further, certain additional products may be exported or reexported under license exception. These include: recoverable products; encryption products to legitimate and responsible entities or organizations and their strategic partners, including on-line merchants; encryption products sold or licensed to foreign governments that are members of NATO, ASEAN, and OECD; computer hardware or computer software that does not itself provide encryption capabilities, but that incorporates APIs of interaction with encryption products; and technical assistance or technical data associated with the installation and maintenance of encryption products. 
   The Commerce Department is required to make encryption products and related computer services eligible for a license exception after a 15-day, one-time technical review. Exporters may export encryption products if no action is taken within the 15-day period. 
   A formal process is established whereby encryption products employing a key length greater than 64 bits may be granted an exemption from export controls. Under the procedures established by this legislation, encryption products may be exported under license exception if: the Secretary of Commerce determines that the product or service is exportable under the Export Administration Act, or if the Encryption Export Advisory Board created under this Act determines, and the Secretary agrees, that the product or services is, generally available, publicly available, or a comparable encryption product is available, or will be available in 12 months, from a foreign supplier. 
   As referenced, the PROTECT Act creates an Encryption Export Advisory Board to make recommendations regarding general, public and foreign availability of encryption products to the Secretary of Commerce who must make such decisions to allow an exemption. The Secretary's decision is subject to judicial review. The President may override any decision of the Board or Secretary for purposes of national security without judicial review. This process is critical. It ensures that the manufacturer or exporter of an encryption product may rely upon the Board's determination that the product is generally or publicly available or that a comparable foreign product is available, and may thus export the product without consequences. However, a critical national security backstop is provided. Regardless of the recommendation of the board, or the decision of the Secretary, the President is granted the absolute authority to deny the export of encryption technology in order to protect U.S. national security interest. However, a process of review is established whereby market-availability, and other relevant information may be gathered and presented in order to ensue that such determinations are informed and rational. 
   Any products with greater than a 64 bit key length that has been granted previous exemptions by the administration are grandfathered, and decontrolled for export. Upon adoption of the AES, but not later than January 1, 2002, the Secretary must decontrol encryption products if the encryption employed is the AES or its equivalent. 
   Finally, the PROTECT Act prohibits the Secretary from imposing any reporting requirements on any encryption product not subject to U.S. export controls or exported under a license exception. 
   Mr. President, as I have stated, my purpose in putting this legislation together was to get outside the zero sum game thinking that has become so indicative of the debate surrounding the encryption export controls. I would like to commend the outstanding and creative leadership of Senator BURNS on this issue. He is a leader on technology issues in the Senate, and has played an invaluable role in developing this approach. I look forward to working with him, and our other original cosponsor in building the support necessary to see the PROTECT Act signed into law during this Congress. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Fastener Quality Act Amendments Act of 1999. This bill represents major revisions to the original Fastener Quality Act as passed in 1990. 
   Every year billions of special high-strength bolts, screws, and other fasteners are sold in the United States which carry grade identification markings. The markings indicate that the fasteners conform to specifications set by consensus standards organizations. These grade-marked fasteners are used in critical applications like aircraft, automobiles, and highway bridges where failure of a fastener could jeopardize public safety. 
   In 1998, the Congress passed legislation (P.L. 105-234) delaying implementation of the Fastener Quality Act to allow the Secretary of Commerce to conduct a review of changes in fastener manufacturing processes and the existence of other regulatory programs covering fasteners. The review was submitted to the Congress on February 24, 1999, in coordination with several other Federal agencies which have public safety responsibilities including the Defense Industrial Supply Center, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
   This bill reflects the findings and recommendations of that report. The bill's content further represents discussions between both the Senate Commerce Committee and the House Science Committee, the Department of Commerce, and private industry representatives. Mr. President, let me note that if these revisions to the Fastener Quality Act are not implemented into law by June 24 of this year, the Secretary of Commerce will have no other choice but to implement the Act as originally passed in 1990. Therefore, several of the nation's key industries may be brought to a halt due to lack of certified fasteners. The impact of such a slow down would be disastrous both economically and in terms of continuous flow of products and services to maintain our current way of life. 
   The bill defines fasteners as ``a metallic screw, nut, bolt, or stud having internal or external threads, with a nominal diameter of one-fourth inch or greater, or a load-indicating washer, that is through-hardened or represented as meeting through-hardening, and that is grade identification marked or represented as meeting a consensus standard that requires grade identification marking.'' This definition substantially reduces the scope of covered fasteners under the Act. 
   The bill also establishes a hotline in which the public may notify the Department of Commerce of alleged violations of the Fastener Quality Act. It requires record keeping for a period of five years, instead of the previous ten years, via both traditional and electronic means. 
   To address current inventory concerns, the Act will be applicable only to fasteners fabricated 180 days after the enactment of this bill. 
   Furthermore, in cases of fasteners manufactured to a consensus standard or standards that require end-of-line testing, the testing is to be performed by an accredited laboratory. This accredited laboratory requirement shall not take effect until two years after enactment of this Act. 
   Therefore, I, along with my co-sponsors, urge the members of this body to support this bill and to provide the needed legislation which will allow several key industries in this country continuous operation in a safe and responsible manner. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am pleased to cosponsor and support the E-911 Act of 1999, which has been introduced by Senator BURNS. I commend Senator BURNS for his outstanding work on this legislation which will help build a national wireless communications system and save lives. 
   Mr. President, I want to make sure that Americans everywhere can dial 9-1-1 to summon prompt assistance in an emergency. When a person is seriously injured, every second counts. In fact, medical trauma and public safety professionals speak of a ``golden hour''--the first hour after serious injury when the greatest percentage of lives can be saved. The sooner that the seriously injured get medical help, the greater the chance of survival. And prompt notification to the authorities is the first critical step in getting medical assistance to the injured. 
   I believe that injured Americans should be able to get emergency medical assistance as quickly as possible.  Over 60 million Americans carry wireless telephones. Some of these people own them specifically for safety reasons, in order to summon help in an emergency. Others would be willing to use their phones to report emergencies to the authorities. 
   But in many parts of the country when a person who is seriously injured--or a frantic bystander--calls 9-1-1 on their wireless telephone, nothing happens. Although many Americans think that 9-1-1 is already a national emergency number everywhere, it isn't. There are many places in America where 9-1-1 isn't the right number to call for help. The rule in America ought to be uniform and simple--if you have an emergency wherever you are, dial 9-1-1. This bill reduces the danger of not knowing what number to call, by making 9-1-1 the universal emergency telephone number. 
   Mr. President, I also believe that we also need to tie our citizens through their wireless telephones to emergency medical centers, police and firefighters so that they can get lifesaving assistance even when they are too injured to make a 9-1-1 call, or can make the call but cannot give their location. This bill supports the upgrading of 9-1-1 systems so that they can deliver more information, like location and automatic crash information data which will better enable emergency services to reach those incapacitated by injury. This legislation also promotes the expansion of the areas covered by wireless telephone service, so that more people can use wireless phones in an emergency. Because if a wireless telephone isn't within range of a wireless tower, a wireless call can't go through. 
   Mr. President, I would like to see an America where more people in more places can call 9-1-1 and quickly get the right help in emergencies. This legislation will help reduce medical response time for millions of Americans, by helping to make sure that people can use their wireless phones to call 9-1-1 immediately and get the ambulances rolling 
   I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Commerce Committee on this important life-saving legislation, and I urge all my colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990414</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would make the International Olympic Committee subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. This legislation is in response to what I believe is a failure on the part of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to adequately respond to corruption in the selection of cities to host the Olympic games. 
   This morning, I chaired a hearing of the Commerce Committee on the recent public controversies involving the Olympic bid process. As most of you know, allegations of bribes and corruption in the Salt Lake City bid process have prompted investigations by the Utah Attorney General and the Department of Justice. The purpose of the hearing was not to focus on a single investigation. Instead, the Committee examined the bid process as a whole and the reform efforts undertaken by the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) and IOC respectively. 
   The Committee heard testimony from the USOC, IOC and the Special Bid Oversight Commission. The Commission was appointed by the USOC to review the circumstances surrounding the selection of Salt Lake City to host the 2002 Winter Olympics. The Commission, composed of a group of highly respected individuals including our former colleague Senator Mitchell and Ken Duberstein, made a series of recommendations to reform both the USOC and the IOC. The recommendations focused on bringing transparency and accountability to both organizations. 
   The USOC appears to be moving forward with reform. It adopted in full the recommendations of the Commission and took responsibility for its own failure to oversee the Salt Lake City bid process. While not complete, I believe the process of reform at the USOC has begun. Unfortunately, the hearing did very little to ease my concerns about the IOC. IOC representatives expressed opposition to several of the commissions' recommendations and continues to be resistant to change. While I understand the IOC may have legitimate concerns about some of the suggested reforms, I question their commitment to reform. 
   This morning Senator Mitchell and the other members of the Commission agreed that Congress could and should take action to ensure that the IOC is  subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In the United States, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act is available to law enforcement to combat official corruption in international business transactions. Currently, IOC members are not governed by the Act because they do not generally act in the role of a foreign official. Rather, they act on behalf of the IOC, a private enterprise. My amendment includes the IOC in the definition of a Public International Organization subjecting them to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 
   This bill should be a considered vehicle for discussion. This morning, Senator Mitchell and the Commission offered to provide the committee with further comments on possible legislative solutions to this problem. I look forward to hearing their ideas and working with them. However, based upon the recommendation of the panel this morning and the need to send a strong signal to IOC that we are serious about reform, I wanted to introduce this first step today. I know that many of my colleagues either will introduce measures as well and I look forward to working with them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990413</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am introducing legislation today to authorize special compensation for severely disabled military retirees who suffer under an existing law regarding ``concurrent receipt.'' As many of my colleagues know, current law requires military retirees who are rated as disabled to offset their military retired pay by the amount they receive in veterans' disability compensation. This requirement is discriminatory and wrong. 
   Today, America's disabled military retirees--those individuals who dedicated their careers to military service, and who suffered disabling injuries in the course of that service--cannot receive concurrently their military retirement pay, which they have earned through at least 20 years of service in the Armed Forces, and their veterans' disability compensation, which they are owed due to pain and suffering incurred from military service. In other words, the law penalizes the very men and women who have sacrificed their physical or psychological well-being in uniformed service to their country. 
   The legislation I am introducing today does not provide for full payment  to eligible veterans of both the disability compensation and the retired pay they have earned. I regret that such a proposal, which I support in principle, would be far more expensive than many of my colleagues could accept. I learned that lesson the hard way in the course of sponsoring more ambitious concurrent receipt proposals in previous Congresses. 
   My current legislation would instead authorize special compensation for the most severely disabled retired veterans--those who have served for at least 20 years, and who have disability ratings of between 70 and 100 percent. More specifically, it would authorize monthly payments of $300 for totally disabled retired veterans; $200 for retirees rated as 90 percent disabled; and $100 for retirees with disability ratings of 70-80 percent. 
   These men and women suffer from disabilities that have kept them from pursuing second careers. If we cannot muster the votes to provide them with their disability pay and retired pay concurrently, the least we can do is authorize a modest special compensation package to demonstrate that we have not forgotten their sacrifices. At $42 million per year, this legislation comes nowhere near approaching the price tag of more expansive concurrent receipt proposals. Moreover, it involves only discretionary, not mandatory, spending. 
   In short, it is affordable. And it is the right thing to do. But don't take my word for it. The Military Coalition, an organization of 30 prominent veterans' and retirees' advocacy groups, supports my legislation, as do many other veterans' service organizations, including the American Legion and Disabled American Veterans. These highly respected organizations recognize, as I do, that severely disabled military retirees deserve, at a minimum, special compensation for the honorable service they have rendered the United States. 
   My interest in actively resolving the concurrent receipt issue dates to 1993, when I included a provision in the Fiscal Year 1994 Defense Authorization bill directing the Department of Defense (DoD) to submit a concurrent receipt legislative proposal to the House and Senate Armed Services Committees. When that deadline was not met, I took the opportunity at a Senate Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee hearing to ask the then-Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Manpower and Personnel Policy about the status of the concurrent receipt report. Although he replied that Congress would receive it in June 1993, the report arrived seven months late. Clearly, the concurrent receipt issue was not then a DoD priority, nor is it today. 
   I also worked with the Armed Services Committee to include legislation in the FY 1994 Defense Authorization bill to exempt military retirees who are rated as 100 percent disabled from the requirement to offset their military pay by the amount they receive in veterans' disability pay. Although I had assumed that no one could deny a military retiree with 100 percent disability from receiving both his retirement and his disability pay, my legislation was never enacted into law. 
   Undeterred, in 1994 I introduced legislation, which was included in the Senate version of the Defense Appropriations bill for FY 1995, directing the Secretary of Defense to authorize the concurrent payment of military retired pay and veterans' disability compensation. Although my amendment had 16 cosponsors and received bipartisan support in the Senate, it was regrettably reduced to just a study by the House of Representatives during conference negotiations on the bill. 
   This amendment was heralded by more than 30 separate veterans' associations as a means of redressing the unjust offset of retirement pay with disability compensation. It provided for concurrent payment of retirement and disability compensation if the following criteria were met: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the Coral Reef Conservation Act of 1999. The bill that I have sponsored, along with Senator SNOWE, the Chair of the Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Oceans and Fisheries, represents strong and balanced environmental policy. I wish to thank Senator SNOWE for her leadership in this area. This bill is a positive step forward to improve the conditions of our coral reefs and the many types of life that live in and among these reefs. 
   The bill is designed to build partnerships with local and State entities to facilitate coral reef conservation. It creates a competitive matching-grant program which would provide funding for local and State governments and qualified non-profit organizations which have experience in coral reef monitoring, research, conservation, and public education projects. The bill requires that federal funds provide no more than 50 percent of the cost of the project. However, it also helps local communities that do not have the ability to raise sufficient matching funds. Therefore, the matching requirement may be waived for qualified proposals under $25,000.  
   Under the bill that Senator SNOWE and I have introduced today, the matching-grant program will maximize funding for important coral reef conservation projects. Our coral reefs are certainly in need of this type of funding. Indeed, coral reefs are the foundation of one of the Earth's most productive and diverse ecosystems, providing food and shelter for at least one million different types of animals, plants and other sea life. Coastal communities realize the benefit of coral reefs through enhanced fisheries, coastal protection, tourism, and the development of medicines used to fight cancer and produce antibiotics and pain relievers. Unfortunately, in 1998, coral reefs suffered some of the most extensive damage ever recorded. What caused so much damage? There are no certain answers. Record-breaking ocean temperatures and a severe El Nino event are the most likely culprits. What we do know is that these global events triggered massive die-offs of coral reefs through a process known as coral ``bleaching''. In essence, bleaching occurs when coral reefs are exposed to environmental stress, including elevated sea temperatures. This results in the loss of an essential food source, so the coral--a living creature--may starve to death. This coral reef bleaching makes the identification of the most injured reefs fairly obvious. The difficult task then becomes what can be done to prevent such a loss in the future and what, if anything, can be done to revive already damaged reefs? 
   I think this bill is a very good starting point. With this legislation, Senator SNOWE and I will put in place a way to provide responsible and effective funding for coral reef conservation, monitoring, research, and public education. One half of our country's population lives and works in a coastal community. This bill is good for the environment and good for the many Americans who depend on the ocean for their livelihoods. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to be an original co-sponsor of the Border Improvement and Immigration Act of 1999. I co-sponsored identical legislation that passed the Senate during the 105th Congress but did not become law. It is my hope that the Senate will once again move quickly on this legislation so that we may properly address the concerns of the many Americans who would be adversely affected by the ill-timed implementation of the automated entry-exit border control system mandated by immigration legislation passed by the 104th Congress. 
   Section 110 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, codified as Public Law 104-208, required that the Attorney General develop within two years an automated entry-exit control system to allow for a better estimate of the number of visa overstayers in the United States. This system would be designed to collect records of arrival and departure for all aliens in the United States, thereby theoretically enabling the Attorney General to identify lawfully admitted non-immigrants  who remain in this country beyond an authorized period. 
   I have long been sympathetic to the concern of border communities and businesses that implementation of Section 110 by the statutory deadline of September 30, 1998, would severely disrupt trade and travel across America's borders. The governors of Arizona, Texas, and New Mexico, the Border Trade Alliance, and numerous businesses operating in the border region have contacted me to express their reservations about the consequences of implementing such a system. Even Section 110's most adamant advocates concede that the Administration has neither budgeted for nor begun to put in place the physical and technological infrastructure required to activate a system capable of monitoring the arrival and departure of every alien entering and departing the United States. 
   It has been estimated that the amount of information to be recorded in the database of such an automated entry-exit system would be larger than that held by the Library of Congress, the largest physical repository of information in the world. Clearly, it would be disastrous to implement Section 110 before we are capable of making it work. 
   Given these reservations, I wrote Attorney General Janet Reno on January 14, 1998, to highlight the potentially harmful impact of the statutory deadline for implementation of Section 110 on Arizona's border communities. I also sponsored S. 1360, the Border Improvement and Immigration Act of 1998, to require a feasibility study of Section 110 before it is implemented. Ultimately, the 105th Congress addressed this issue in the Fiscal Year 1999 Omnibus Appropriations bill. 
   After learning that conferees to the bill were considering delaying implementation of the automated entry-exit system on the southwest border for only one year, while indefinitely delaying or even removing its applicability to the northern border, I initiated a letter with Senator KYL to the House and Senate conferees urging them to delay implementation of the program by 30 months for both borders. Ultimately, the conferees agreed to this 30-month delay. I was gratified that the final version of the FY 1999 Omnibus bill reflected our request not to discriminate against the southwest border by imposing a deadline for installation of an entry-exit system that could not realistically be met. 
   Like other provisions of the FY 1999 Omnibus Appropriations bill, however, this compromise on Section 110 was a quick fix, not a lasting solution. The language in the bill setting a new deadline for implementation of an automated entry-exit system was designed to prevent the Immigration and Naturalization Service from being in technical violation of the law by failing to carry out the mandate of Section 110 by the 1998 deadline. The extension of that deadline by 30 months provides Congress with the opportunity to more thoughtfully assess the long-term feasibility of an automated entry-exit system for all ports of entry into the United States. 
   The Border Improvement and Immigration Act of 1999 would indefinitely extend the deadline for implementation of Section 110 and require a detailed feasibility study to determine how and whether the requirement can ultimately be met. The legislation would also authorize substantial new resources for INS and Customs Service border enforcement activities. Specifically, it would authorize the expenditure of $588 million over the next two years to enhance border enforcement against illegal immigration and drug trafficking, as well as investigate corruption and money-laundering along the border; add 1,200 new INS inspectors, canine enforcement officers, intelligence analysts, and investigators to bolster enforcement against illegal aliens and narcotics trafficking; and add 1,700 new Customs inspectors, special agents, intelligence analysts, and canine enforcement officers to man ports of entry and investigate criminal activity along the border. 
   The legislation would also provide the high-technology tools, including x-ray, ultrasonic, motion-detecting, remote-watch, and particle-detector sensors, that will enable INS and Customs officials to more effectively interdict narcotics and illegal immigrants. Finally, it would enhance investigative resources for border enforcement and anti-corruption efforts, intensify efforts against drug smuggling and money-laundering organizations, allow for more rapid cargo processing, and reduce commercial and passenger traffic waiting times at ports of entry. 
   As a founding member and Co-Chairman of the Senate Border Caucus, whose priorities include improving border enforcement and facilitating U.S. trade with Mexico, I believe this bill advances our national interest in better controlling our nation's borders without unduly hindering flows of cross-border trade and travel. The Border Improvement and Immigration Act of 1999 deserves this Congress' support. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of H.R. 98, which would reauthorize the aviation war risk insurance program for five years. As U.S. troops embark on strikes against Yugoslavia, it is important that we make sure to provide the Administration all of the tools necessary to carry out our foreign policy interests. 
   The Aviation Insurance Program insures U.S. air carriers against losses resulting from war, terrorism or other hostile acts. Program insurance is available when a carrier's commercial insurance is canceled, or is unavailable at reasonable rates. First, however, the President or his designee must determine that a flight is essential to the foreign policy interests of the United States. 
   We must act on this legislation now. Otherwise, the Aviation Insurance Program will expire at the end of March. I cannot overemphasize its importance. During Operation Desert Storm, for instance, the program insured more than 5,000 flights provided by commercial airlines in support of the Department of Defense, as part of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet. U.S. carriers simply would not be able to participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet if they could not insure against high risks of loss or damage. 
   I want to emphasize another important point. The Senate recently approved legislation that, among other things, would reauthorize the Aviation Insurance Program for two months. H.R. 98 would reauthorize the program for five years. In the event that the legislation containing the two-month extension is enacted into law after H.R. 98 is enacted into law, the two-month provision should not trump the five-year provision. In other words, it is our intent that the Aviation Insurance Program is reauthorized for five years. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation to reauthorize the aviation war risk insurance program for five years. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I yield myself such time as I may consume. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the United States is about to begin what very well might prove to be our most challenging and perilous military action since President Clinton took office. Many of our colleagues have come to the floor to express their grave and well-founded concern that we are embarking on a very dangerous mission without a clear sense of what will be required of us to achieve our objectives of autonomy for Kosovo and peace and stability in the Balkans. 
   Further, many of us cannot escape the nagging feeling that the United States and NATO credibility has been badly squandered by the Administration's many previous failures to impress upon Milosevic and the war criminals that make up his army that we are prepared to back up our rhetoric with action. Our threats of force have apparently lost their power to restrain the remorseless and blood-thirsty Serbian Government and military from giving full expression to their limitless brutality. Consequently, the level of force required to coerce Serbia into accepting a peace agreement has become all the greater, so great, in fact, that no one is entirely confident that Serbia can be coerced by the use of air power alone. 
   As the violence of an air campaign increases, so too does the risk to our pilots and to innocent people in Kosovo and Serbia. This will not, in all probability, be a casualty-free operation for the United States and our allies. And we must prepare ourselves and the American people for the likelihood that we will witness some heartbreaking moments at Dover Air Force Base. I hope I am wrong, but it would be irresponsible to pretend that the danger to our pilots in this operation is no greater than the danger we have encountered during our periodic cruise missile attacks on Iraq. 
   The President himself must deliver this message to the American people. He has not done so, and that, I agree, is a terrible derogation of his responsibilities as Commander in Chief. However, Members of Congress cannot evade our own responsibilities to speak plainly to our constituents about the great risks involved in this operation, We, too, must shoulder a share of the responsibility for the loss of American lives in a conflict that most Americans do not believe is relevant to our own security. That is why so many Senators are so reluctant to support this action and have spoken so passionately against it. 
   However, we also have a responsibility to speak plainly about the risks to America's security interests we incur by continuing to ignore Serbia's challenge to the will of NATO and the values of the civilized world. It is those risks that have brought me reluctantly to the floor to oppose those of my colleagues who would strip the President of his authority to take military action to defend our interests in Europe. 
   Two American Presidents have warned Serbia that the United States and NATO would not tolerate the violent repression of the movement by Kosovars to reclaim their autonomy. We have, time and again, threatened the direst consequences should Milosevic and his henchmen undertake the wanton slaughter of innocent life in Kosovo as they did in Bosnia. 
   President Clinton set two deadlines for Serbia to agree to the fair terms of a settlement in Kosovo or else face the direst consequences. I have been involved, one way or another, with U.S. national security policies for over 40 years. I cannot remember a single instance when an American President allowed two ultimatums to be ignored by an inferior power without responding as we threatened we would respond. 
   The emptiness of our threats is evident in the administration's more recent threshold for military action. In his press conference last week, President Clinton, acknowledging Serbia's scorched earth campaign in Kosovo, stated that the threshold for NATO military action had been crossed. Subsequent statements by administration officials, as quoted in the Washington Post, conceded that military action was unlikely ``unless Yugoslav troops committed an atrocity.'' 
   Atrocities are the signature of the Serbian Army. There has been an uninterrupted pattern of atrocities since 1992, alternating with U.S. threats of force that were either not carried out or carried out so ineffectually that they encouraged greater bloodshed. The one occasion when force was applied convincingly, the result was the Dayton Accord. 
   We have dug ourselves a deep hole in which the world's only superpower can no longer manage a credible threat of force in a situation where our interests and our values are clearly threatened. As has been pointed out by many Senators, there is a realistic danger of this conflict destabilizing southern Europe, and threatening the future of NATO. And no one disputes the threat Serbia poses to the most fundamental Western motions of human rights. Our interests and values converge clearly here. 
   We must not permit the genocide that Milosevic has in mind for Kosovo to continue. We must take action. 
   But I understand, all too well, the reluctance and outright opposition shared by many of my colleagues not only to air strikes but to the deployment of American troops in Kosovo as part of a peace agreement should we ever coerce Serbia into accepting the terms of that agreement.  
   Typically, the administration has not convincingly explained to us or to the public what is at stake in Kosovo; what we intend to do about it; and what we will do if the level of force anticipated fails to persuade the Serbs. 
   Should the Serbs acquiesce, and United States troops are deployed in Kosovo, the administration has not, to the best of my knowledge, answered the most fundamental questions about that deployment. What is the mission?; how will we know when it is accomplished?; what are the rules of engagement for our forces should Serbs or any force challenge their authority? 
   Thus, Congress and the American people have good reason to fear that we are heading toward another permanent garrison of Americans in a Balkan country where our mission is confused, and our exit strategy a complete mystery. 
   It is right and responsible for Congress to demand that the administration answer fully these elemental questions. It is right and responsible for Congress to debate this matter even at this time when we are trying to convince a skeptical adversary that this time we are serious about enforcing our will. I believe the administration should come to Congress and ask for an authorization of force. I believe that they would receive one. 
   Surely we are entitled to complete answers to the many questions about our eventual deployment of American peacekeepers to Kosovo in advance of that deployment. 
   But if the President determines that he must use force in the next hour, or the next day or within the week, I think it would be extraordinarily dangerous for Congress to deny him that authority or to constitutionally challenge his prerogatives as Commander in Chief. It seems clear to me that Milosevic knows no limits to his inhumanity and will keep slaughtering until even the most determined opponent of American involvement in this conflict is convinced to drop that opposition. but if we once again allow Milosevic to escape unharmed yet another American ultimatum, our mission will be made all the more difficult and dangerous. 
   Moreover, our adversaries around the globe will take heart from our inability to act in concert to defend our interests and values, and threats to our interests, from North Korea to Iraq, will increase accordingly. 
   Even the War Powers Resolution, legislation that I have always opposed, would allow the President to undertake military action for some time before he would be forced to secure Congress' agreement. I have long called on leaders from both parties to authorize Members to work together to repeal or rewrite this constitutionally suspect infringement of both the President's and Congress' authority. 
   But that, Mr. President, is a debate for another time. We are at the critical hour. American troops will soon be ordered into harm's way to defend against what I believe is a clear and present danger to our interests. That the President has so frequently and so utterly failed to preserve one of our most important strategic assets--our credibility, is not a reason to deny him his authority to lead NATO in this action. On the contrary, it is a reason for Congress to do what it can to restore our credibility. It is a reason for us to help convince Mr. Milosevic that the United States, the greatest force for good in history, will no longer stand by while he makes a mockery of the values for which so many Americans have willingly given their lives. 
   No, Mr. President, we must not compound the administration's mistakes by committing our own. We must do what we can to repair the damage already done to our interests. We must do what we can to restore our allies' confidence in American leadership and our enemies' dread of our opposition. We must do what we can to ensure that force is used appropriately and successfully. And we must do what we can to define an achievable mission for our forces, and to bring them home the moment it is achieved. 
   That should be our purpose today, Mr. President. Therefore, with an appreciation for the good intentions that support this resolution, I must without hesitation oppose it, and ask my colleagues to do likewise. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I want to thank the managers of this bill for their hard work in putting forth this legislation. This measure provides much-needed federal funding for foreign assistance, and recovery from the recent plague of natural disasters that have hammered many parts of the United States and its neighboring countries in recent months. 
    Mr. President, I am glad that the Appropriations Committee decided to reject the President's designation of this entire disaster supplemental appropriations bill as ``emergency'' spending. While the need for relief is clear, I believe it is important to provide offsets for any additional spending so that we avoid dipping into the surplus that is desperately needed to shore up the Social Security system and provide meaningful tax relief to American families. 
   Unfortunately, although well-intentioned, the Committee did not succeed in fully offsetting the costs of this bill. In future years, hundreds of millions of dollars in spending resulting from this bill will eat into future surpluses, whether we want to account for it or not. The better course would have been to fully offset all of the new spending in this bill, rather than continue the dangerous practice of profligate ``emergency'' spending. 
   Speaking of profligate spending, I regret that I must again come forward this year to object to the millions of unrequested, low-priority, wasteful spending in this bill and its accompanying report. This year's bill originally contained $72.25 million in pork-barrel spending. But, as usual, we added pork on top of pork through a litany of amendments. To make matters worse, many of these amendments were adopted without ever being seen by most Senators. This time around, we added an additional $13 million of pork-barrel spending to this already pork-laden spending bill. 
   Projections of surpluses into the foreseeable future should not lead to an abandonment of fiscal discipline. CBO now projects a non-social security budget surplus of over $800 billion over the next 10 years, but projections do not equate to ``real'' dollars until they actually materialize. 
   While each individual earmark in this bill may not seem extravagant, taken together, they represent a serious diversion of taxpayers' hard-earned dollars to low-priority programs. 
   I have compiled a list of the numerous add-ons, earmarks, and special exemptions provided to individual projects in this bill, such as: 
   Earmark of $50,000 for a feasibility study and initial planning and design of an effective CD ROM product to the Center for Educational Technologies in Wheeling West Virginia. The CD ROM product would complement the book We the People: The Citizen and the Constitution. 
   $1,136,000 earmarked for suppression of western spruce budworm on the Yakama Indian Reservation, and 
   $1,000,000 for construction of the Pike's Peak Summit House in Colorado. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I also wish to state my objections to a provision that creates a $1 billion loan guarantee program to support the domestic steel industry. 
   Specifically, this provision provides a loan guarantee of up to $250 million for any domestic steel company that ``has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses since the beginning of 1998.'' The purported reason for this program is to help steel companies suffering because of a flood of foreign steel. The measure, however, does not require that the losses relate to the so-called ``steel crisis.'' The measure also fails to set terms, conditions or interest rates for the guarantees. Instead, it leaves these critical decisions to the discretion of the board making the loans. The only guidance given to the board is that the terms should be reasonable. These provisions are problematic and will eventually result in the taxpayer guaranteeing bad loans. 
   In the mid-sixties, the Economic Development Administration operated a similar program. The result of that program was disastrous for the taxpayer. Steel companies defaulted on 77% of the dollar value of their guarantees. An analysis of the loan program by the Congressional Research Service concluded that steel loans represent a high level of risk. Nevertheless, we are poised today to provide an additional $1 billion in guarantees. 
   I also have to question the need for such legislation. In a recent editorial, the Wall Street Journal declared ``there really is no U.S. steel `crisis'.'' They went on to note that several U.S. companies are posting significant profits. For example, last year, Nucor earned $263 million, USX earned $364 million and Bethlehem Steel earned $120 million. 
   Finally, Mr. President I have problems with how this provision came before the Senate. The creation of a program like this on an appropriations bill is just wrong. The provision places at risk hundreds of millions of taxpayers' dollars. The Senate should have the opportunity to fully consider and debate this provision. 
   Mr. President, again, the amount of wasteful spending in this bill is less onerous than many other bills I have seen. However, I still must object strenuously to the inclusion of $85.5 million in pork-barrel spending. We cannot afford pork-barrel spending, even in the amount contained in this bill, because the cumulative effect of each million wasted is a million dollars robbed from the surplus or an additional million dollars in debt on which we must pay interest. 
   In the upcoming FY 2000 appropriations season, I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to ensure that we do not waste taxpayers dollars on projects that are low-priority, wasteful, or unnecessary, and that have not been evaluated in the appropriate merit-based review process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of this amendment offered to earmark a portion of the tobacco settlement proceeds for health and anti-smoking programs. The use of the money for these purposes goes to the very heart of my support for the global settlement a year ago and my reason for sponsoring a bill to implement the settlement. 
   It was never my intention or understanding that this money would be used for building roads, prisons, or to simply inflate the government's coffers. It was my understanding and intent that the money would be used primarily to fight the evils of the tobacco industry and to keep 3,000 kids a day from starting to smoke. 
   I am also a strong proponent of states' rights. In considering this amendment, it is my understanding that no federal approvals are required, but only that reports be filed demonstrating that the funds are being used in programs designed to achieve the public health goals of the litigation. This information is important for Congress and the Administration to have so that we can continue to evaluate the need for federal legislation addressing any issues not covered by the settlement agreement. If the states are successful in achieving what the litigation and settlement set out to achieve, then there will be no need for additional action. If not, we can revisit the issues. 
   I do not perceive this amendment as requiring federal approval of all state spending or programs, but as an informational requirement. I am certainly open to further discussion on how to best ensure that the money is being spent as intended, to keep kids from smoking. 
   I hope that we will continue the dialogue on this very important issue and that we can reach consensus on how to ensure that the settlement funds are used to protect kids, if not today, then as the bill progresses to the House and conference. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to support legislation introduced by my esteemed colleague, Senator LUGAR. The African Growth and Opportunity Act will create an historic new U.S. trade and investment policy for Africa. 
   It is regrettable that the public perception of Sub-Saharan Africa remains a region which is underdeveloped, poor, ravaged by famine and wars, and ruled by authoritarian leaders. This is not an accurate picture of today's Africa. 
   The Africa of the late 1990s is a continent struggling on the road to economic and political reform. Some 30 Sub-Saharan African countries are implementing economic reforms, including liberalizing trade and investment regimes, rationalizing tariff and exchange rates, and reducing barriers to investment and stock market development. In addition, more than 30 Sub-Saharan African countries are also in various stages of democratic transformation that will allow their citizens to have the same type of participation in their governments that, as Americans, we hold dear. Nigeria's recent election, despite its flaws, is a concrete example of the movement toward democracy in Africa. 
   The African Growth and Opportunity Act is an important piece of legislation designed to promote continued reform in Africa. The main strength of the bill is its reliance on trade incentives, not financial aid. These trade incentives are intended to result in the political and economic well-being of African citizens. American companies are given incentives to invest in these countries, and help them learn how to become members of the world marketplace. For many years, we have poured our financial resources into foreign aid programs that have met with limited success. This bill is based on the commonsense principle that if you give a nation a handout, you feed it for a day, but if you teach it to grow and trade, you assist it to reach permanent independence and self-reliance. 
   There is also a benefit for the United States in this legislation. Currently, United States' exports to Sub-Saharan Africa are $6 billion, which support 100,000 American jobs. However, the U.S. has only a 7% share in the African market, while Europe has a 40% share. More U.S. trade and investment in Sub-Saharan Africa will increase U.S. market share, and create more jobs here in the U.S. 
   More important, it should be pointed out that this legislation will foster interdependence and economic growth between countries that have been torn apart by war, disease, and harmful economic policies. By trading with the United States and each other, these nations will see the benefits of peace and stability to economic growth. An interdependent and democratic Africa will be less likely to suffer from civil strife. 
   I hope that my colleagues will join us in supporting this legislation that will open up a new chapter in U.S.-African relations. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. President, centuries ago, Aristotle wrote, ``All who have meditated in the art of governing mankind have been convinced that the fate of empires depends on the education of the youth.'' His words still hold true today. Educating our children is a critical component in their quest for personal success and fulfillment, but it also plays a pivotal role in the success of our nation economically, intellectually, civically and morally. 
   Like many Americans, I have grave concerns about the current condition of our nation's education system. If a report card on our educational system were sent home today, it would be full of unsatisfactory and incomplete marks. In fact, it would be full of ``D's'' and ``F's.'' These abominable grades demonstrate our failure to meet the needs of our nation's students in kindergarten through twelfth grade. 
   Failure is clearly evident throughout the educational system. One prominent illustration of our nation's failure is seen in the results of the Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS.) Over forty countries participated in the 1996 study which tested science and mathematical abilities of students in the fourth, eighth and twelfth grades. Tragically, American students scored lower than students in other countries. According to this study, our twelfth graders scored near the bottom, placing 19th out of 21 nations in math and 16th in science, while scoring at the absolutely bottom in physics. 
   Meanwhile, students in countries which are struggling economically, socially and politically, such as Russia, outscored U.S. children in math and scored far above them in advanced math and physics. Clearly, we must make significant changes in our children's academic performance in order to remain a viable force in the world economy. 
   We can also see our failure when we look at the federal government's efforts to combat illiteracy. We spend over $8 billion a year on programs to eradicate illiteracy across the country. Yet, we have not seen any significant improvement in literacy in any segment of our population. Today, more than 40 million Americans cannot read a menu, instructions, medicine labels or a newspaper. And, tragically, four out of ten children in third grade cannot read. 
   For too long, Washington has been creating new educational programs which provide good sound-bites for politicians, make great campaign slogans, or serve the specific needs of select interests groups, but completely ignore the fundamental academic needs of our children. The time has come for us to free our schools from the shackles of the federal government and give them the freedom and the tools to educate children. 
   The first step is putting parents back in charge. Federal education dollars should be spent where they do the most good. The ED-ACT would funnel millions of dollars directly into our classrooms, rather than wasting education dollars on federal red tape. By sending federal elementary and secondary education funds directly to local education agencies (LEAs), schools will be able to utilize the funds for the unique needs of their students rather than wasting their time jumping through hoops for government bureaucrats. Giving the money directly to the LEAs with strong accountability requirements for the academic performance and improvement of our children is the right thing to do. 
   We must have higher learning expectations for our children, but we cannot and should not have these standards controlled at the national level. States and local communities must control the development, implementation and assessment of academic standards. This bill would prohibit federal funds from being used to develop or implement national education tests. National tests and standards only result in new bureaucracies, depriving parents of the opportunity to manage the education of their children. 
   ED-ACT strengthens and reauthorizes the successful Troops to Teachers program. As many of my colleagues know, the Troops to Teachers program was initially created in 1993 to assist military personnel affected by defense downsizing who were interested in utilizing their knowledge, professional skills and expertise as teachers. Unfortunately, the authorization for this program is set to expire at the end of this fiscal year. 
   Local school districts across the city are facing a shortage of two million teachers over the next decade, and the Troops to Teachers program is an important resource to help schools address this shortfall by recruiting, funding and retaining new teachers to make America's children ready for tomorrow, particularly in the areas of math, reading and science. 
   ED-ACT would also encourage states to ensure that all Americans are fluent in English, while helping develop innovative initiatives to promote the importance of foreign language skills.  The ability to speak one or more languages, in addition to English, is a tremendous resource to the U.S. because it enhances our competitiveness in global markets. Multilingualism also enhances our nation's diplomatic efforts and leadership role on the international front by fostering greater communication and understanding between people of all nations and cultures. 
   ED-ACT provides educational opportunities for disadvantaged children by providing parents and students the freedom to choose the best school for their unique academic needs, while encouraging schools to be creative and responsive to the needs of all students. This three-year demonstration would allow up to ten states or localities to implement a voucher program empowering low-income parents with more options for their child's education. Parents should be allowed to use their tax dollars to send their children to the school of their choice, public or private. Tuition vouchers would give low- 
   income families the same choice. 
   ED-ACT also creates additional financial opportunities for parents, guardians and communities to plan for the educational expenses of their children. First, it would increase the amount allowed to be contributed to a higher education IRA from $500 to $1,000 annually. Under current law, the maximum amount which could be saved for a child throughout their lifetime is $9,000, which would not cover the basic costs of tuition at a private institution, let alone books, foods and living expenses for a student. This amount barely covers the tuition at a public four-year institution, but that is before factoring in inflation, expenses, room and board. In my home state of Arizona, a four-year degree from one of the three state colleges costs about $8,800--and that is just for tuition, not books, food, room and board. In addition, ED-ACT allows a $500 tax credit for taxpayers who make a voluntary contribution to public or private schools. 
   This bill would also help develop better educational tools for our children by gathering and analyzing pertinent data regarding some of our most vulnerable students, while collecting information about how we can ensure the best teachers are in our classrooms. 
   Finally, the last section of the ED-ACT reduces the bureaucratic costs at the Department of Education by thirty-five percent no later than October 1, 2004. Far too many resources are spent on funding bureaucrats in Washington, D.C., rather than teaching our children. 
   Thomas Jefferson said, ``The purpose of education is to create young citizens with knowing heads and loving hearts.'' If we fail to give our children the education they need to nurture their heads and hearts, then we threaten their futures and the future of our nation. The bill I am introducing today is an important step towards ensuring that our children have both the love in their hearts and the knowledge in their heads to not only dream, but to make their dreams a reality. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990318</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Drug Free Borders Act of 1999, of which I am an original cosponsor. This legislation, identical to S. 1787 from the 105th Congress, authorizes funding for advanced sensing equipment for detecting illegal drugs before they can cross our border and emerge on the streets of America's cities. I would like to commend my good friend, Senator PHIL GRAMM, for once again taking the lead in introducing the Drug Free Borders Act during the 106th Congress. 
   Those of us who represent States bordering Mexico are particularly sensitive to the dangers implicit in failing to properly monitor traffic crossing that border. Yet, we also recognize that Mexico is one of our largest trading partners, and a country with which it is in our best interest to maintain as open a border as possible. It is a careful balancing act, but one that merits our greatest efforts. 
   While the effects of the North American Free Trade Agreement are being closely monitored by supporters and critics of that pact alike, it has become clear that NAFTA represents an important component of our international economic policy, contributing to the creation of 300,000 new American jobs since its passage. The agreement only went into effect in 1994, and it will likely be several more years before its full impact can be determined. The results from the first five years, however, unambiguously demonstrate that the agreement has a net positive impact on the U.S. economy. 
   But this bill is not about trade, it is about drugs, and about the measures that must be taken to ensure that we are doing everything we can to stem the flow of illegal drugs into our cities without impeding the flow of legitimate commerce. The key to finding that balance is the procurement of the equipment needed to expeditiously scan incoming cargo, not just on the U.S.-Mexican border, but at our other ports of entry as well--and I should point out the emphasis in this bill on your maritime ports of entry. The Drug Free Borders Act of 1999 represents an important and substantive step in that direction. Authorizing over $1 billion to beef-up Customs Department operations along our borders with Mexico and Canada, as well as at the maritime ports of entry, this legislation is a sound, responsible approach to enhancing this country's capabilities to interdict the flow of drugs before they reach our children. 
   Mr. President, I urge the support of all of my colleagues for the Drug Free Borders Act of 1999. This bill passed both Chambers of Congress last year, but fell victim to the vagaries of time, as the 105th Congress adjourned while the bill was still in conference. Its passage by both the Senate and the House of Representatives, however, clearly illustrates its broad bipartisan support, and I look forward to its passage into law during the current session of Congress.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I start out by extending my appreciation and praise to the Senator from Mississippi, Senator COCHRAN, who has done an incredible job on this legislation. He has, for years, advocated a capability of this Nation to defend itself against missile attack. Without his dedication and hard work we would not be here today. The Senator from Mississippi has performed a signal service, not only for the people of Mississippi but the people of this Nation, including all 50 States rather than just 48. I thank him for the marvelous job he has done. 
   I also think it is worthy of note that the persuasiveness of his arguments have caused the administration to significantly shift their position on this very important issue. So, again, my congratulations to the Senator from Mississippi and my sincere appreciation. 
   Mr. President, the question of whether to deploy defenses against ballistic missiles has been a contentious and unresolved issue for over 40 years. As a result, Americans today are vulnerable to destruction by a missile attack on our soil. The bill before us today, the National Missile Defense Act of 1999, resolves this national policy debate by calling for the deployment of an effective missile defense system when technologically possible to protect our citizens from the threat of a ballistic missile attack on the U.S. 
   Secretary of Defense Bill Cohen announced in January that the Clinton Administration, after years of discounting the existence of a missile threat to the U.S., will now support and provide the necessary funding for development and deployment of a ballistic missile defense system. On the surface, this appears to be one of the President's more propitious policy reversals. Yet, the Clinton Administration threatened to veto this bill, which establishes in law the missile defense policy the Administration now claims to support. 
   While I am pleased that the Administration has lifted its veto threat, I question the interpretation of the passage of yesterday's amendment that reportedly provided the basis for this latest reversal of position. The United States should proceed with deployment of a missile defense system irrespective of whether Russia agrees to reduce its nuclear force levels in accordance with the START II agreement. How many times do we have to point out that the requirement for missile defenses is predicated upon a much broader threat that the Administration apparently still doesn't fully comprehend. 
   Mr. President, since its inauguration, the Clinton Administration has demonstrated an approach to national defense that can only be described as disengaged and minimalist. Administration officials have sought not to maximize our military strength within reasonable fiscal constraints, but to find ways to minimize defense spending at the expense of military capability and readiness, and in so doing, they have endangered our future security. 
   Our late colleague and a man I greatly admired, Senator John Tower, stressed time and again that the size and composition of our Armed Forces, and thus the amount of our budgetary resources that are devoted to defense, must be determined by the level and nature of the threat. The Clinton Administration's long-standing opposition to missile defenses, as well as its continued refusal to provide adequate levels of defense spending, are the complete antithesis of Senator Tower's sound advice. Consequently, our nation is vulnerable right now to the threat of an accidental or unauthorized missile launch from Russia or China, and will be vulnerable to additional threats in the near future from North Korea and other rogue nations implacably hostile to America and governed by unpredictable leaders. 
   Mr. President, one of the principal reasons for our country's vulnerability to ballistic missile attack is not lack of money or technology. It is the 1972 ABM Treaty. 
   In the 1960s, at the height of the Cold War, then-Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara 
   developed the theory of Mutual Assured Destruction as a means of deterring nuclear war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. This concept relied on the assumption that, so long as both the U.S. and the Soviet Union were confident of their ability to retaliate against each other with assurance of enormous destruction, nuclear war would be averted and there would be no incentive to build more offensive nuclear weapons. 
   The 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty was an essential component of this ``balance of terror'' concept. It prohibits the deployment of effective defensive systems which were perceived as undermining the concept of mutually assured destruction. In effect, the ABM Treaty was designed to keep the citizenry of both the U.S. and the former Soviet Union equally vulnerable to destruction in a nuclear exchange. 
   The ten years following ratification of the ABM Treaty, however, witnessed the greatest expansion of Soviet offensive strategic nuclear forces in history, destroying the basic premise of the MAD doctrine, and the ABM Treaty as well. Yet, the Treaty's proponents cling to it with an almost theological reverence. 
   It was President Reagan who finally called into question the wisdom of continuing to deprive ourselves of missile defenses in the face of overwhelming evidence that the Soviet Union was pursuing the capability of launching a debilitating strike against the U.S. His March 1983 speech set the stage for the first serious discussion of defensive systems in over a decade. If his vision of a global system was technologically and financially unrealistic, his dream of protecting the American public from the threat of foreign missiles was prescient, and the Strategic Defense Initiative--the butt of many a joke by  arms control theorists--was instrumental in bringing down the Soviet Union without firing a shot. 
   Since work began in earnest in the Reagan Administration to develop missile defenses for our nation, the threat has changed. The end of the Cold War and the emergent threat of ballistic missile proliferation have fundamentally altered the approach this country must take to the issue of missile defenses. In fact, the imperative to deploy effective systems is greater now because of the unpredictability of the potential threats. 
   Throughout the Bush Administration, as our overall defense strategy and budget were being adjusted to reflect the changes in the world, so too was our plan for ballistic missile defenses revised to address the changed threat. 
   Unfortunately, the Clinton Administration has retained allegiance to the outmoded ABM Treaty and, over the years, has significantly cut the funding and restricted the objectives of the ballistic missile defense program. 
   Remember, back in 1994, when the President evoked considerable laughter from his audience at a campaign rally when he said:  
   Here's what they [the Republicans] promise ..... we're going to increase defense and we're going to bring back Star Wars. And then we're going to balance the budget.  
   The Clinton Administration's attitude for the past six years has been to ridicule efforts to develop and deploy a system to effectively defend our nation against a ballistic missile strike. The result has been a significant and dangerous delay in ending the ``terror'' of a nuclear strike. 
   Now, the President has belatedly agreed, at least rhetorically, to the agenda he formerly ridiculed. While I applaud the President's words, I remain more than mildly skeptical about his true commitment to protecting our nation from the clear threat of missile attack. 
   The President's budget proposal, which was submitted to the Congress on February 1, proves skeptics correct. 
   While the President was pledging more funding for development of a national missile defense system on one hand, his other hand was taking $250 million out of the program to pay for the Wye River Agreement. At the same time, the Administration decided to push back the deployment date for missile defenses from 2003 to 2005, with no justifiable reason for doing so. 
   If the President is truly getting serious about missile defense, why would he show us the money, and then snatch it back and slip the deployment date two additional years beyond its already much-delayed timetable? 
   Another indication of the Administration's disingenuous embrace of missile defenses are the qualifications attached to its support in two areas: questions about the nature of the threat, and continued deference to the restrictions of the ABM Treaty. 
   No fewer than 30 times over the last several years, President Clinton has gone before the public and boasted that, thanks to his policies, the American people, for the first time since the dawn of the Cold War, can go to sleep at night without the threat of missiles targeted against their country. Clearly, the Administration has been existing in a virtual state of denial about the expanding and diverse threat of ballistic missiles. 
   I urge the President to take another look at the report of the Commission to Assess the Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States, known as the Rumsfeld Commission. It is a completely nonpartisan and very sobering look at the threats we face. The Commission concluded that the threat is here now, and that traditional methods of determining the nature and scale of the threat need to be examined. 
   The Rumsfeld Commission's meticulous examination of the growing threat to the U.S. of ballistic missiles, with its emphasis on the difficulties inherent in determining when serious threats will appear and the tendency of such threats to materialize sooner than anticipated, should have shaken the White House out of its fatuous complacency. Apparently, that is not the case. 
   A recent article in Inside the Pentagon pointed out that, even after the Rumsfeld 
   Commission report was released in July 1998, the Administration predicted the absence of a rogue nation threat, excepting North Korea, before 2010. And in a February 3 letter to the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, the President's National Security Advisor, Sandy Berger, wrote that, prior to a decision to deploy a national missile defense system, ``the President and his senior advisers will need to confirm whether the rogue state ballistic missile threat to the United States has developed as quickly as we now expect.......'' 
   Apparently North Korea's launch last August of an intercontinental ballistic missile over Japan, Iran's ongoing efforts with Russian assistance to develop such a missile, and Iraq's continuing efforts in that regard do not constitute a threat. 
   Equally disturbing is the Administration's view of the ABM Treaty. In his February 3 letter, Mr. Berger reiterated that ``the ABM Treaty remains a cornerstone of strategic stability''--a reminder that we are dealing with an Administration that is imbued with an unquestioned adherence to an outdated treaty. While I am mindful of arguments that deployment of national missile defenses may be perceived by some nations as a potentially hostile act, theories of nuclear deterrence that were of questionable value during the Cold War clearly do not apply today or in the foreseeable future and should not be permitted to stand in the way of going forward. 
   If the Administration supports deployment of an effective national missile defense system, it cannot remain wedded to the ABM Treaty. Make no mistake, the ABM Treaty was intended to and does preclude our ability to deploy nation-wide missile defenses. Construction of a missile defense facility at the one treaty-permissible site cannot be expanded for national coverage without violating the terms of the treaty. While the original 1972 treaty permitted each country two sites, it stipulated that they had to be deployed so as to preclude even regional coverage. 
   Deploying a national missile defense system, therefore, requires either unilateral abrogation of the ABM Treaty or an expeditiously negotiated revision of it. As the treaty clearly prohibits us from providing for the common defense--our most fundamental constitutional responsibility--I urge the Administration to proceed without delay to achieve the needed changes to the treaty, or move for its abrogation. 
   Questionable in its utility even at the time it was negotiated, the ABM Treaty was signed with a totalitarian regime that no longer exists and which violated the treaty at every opportunity. Its day is past. If Russia will not agree to negotiate changes to the treaty that will permit deployment of national missile defenses, then we must exercise our authority to withdraw from the treaty to protect our national interests. 
   Mr. President, let me take a moment to talk about the larger problem, of which the Administration's refusal to recognize the clear threat posed by proliferating ballistic missile development is but one aspect. 
   I have long been critical of many aspects of the Clinton Administration's national security policies. This is an Administration that has never been comfortable with the conduct of foreign policy, and so has little grasp of the role of military force in guaranteeing our place in world affairs. Both our policies and the force structure needed to support them seem to be decided in this Administration on the basis of what we can afford after taking care of all other priorities, instead of what is necessary to protect our interests. 
   We can honestly debate the merits of the numerous contingencies to which the Administration has deployed military force, but no one can deny that the combination of over 10 years of declining defense budgets and longer and more frequent force deployments has stretched the Services perilously close to the breaking point. What is at risk, without exaggeration, are the lives of our military personnel and the security of the United States. 
   After years of denying the obvious, in the face of compelling testimony before Congress from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Administration has finally begun to concede that we have serious readiness problems in our Armed Forces. Those of us who have been criticized for sounding alarm bells about military readiness now have the  empty satisfaction of seeing the Administration admit there is more to maintaining a strong defense than their history of falsely promising to do so. 
   After six years of short-changing the Armed Forces, the President proposed adding money to the defense budget--another stunning policy reversal--for readiness, modernization, and even national missile defense. Once again, though, his rhetoric far exceeds his actions. 
   Last fall, the President asked for $1 billion in immediate, emergency funding to redress readiness problems--a mere drop in the bucket compared to what the Service Chiefs said was required. Congress added another $8 billion, but then wasted most of that on pork-barrel spending. The result--a band-aid solution to a serious readiness crisis. 
   The same minimal approach is reflected in the President's budget submission for Fiscal Year 2000. After promising a budget increase of $12.6 billion, the President only asked for $4.1 billion in his budget request, and most of that will be needed to pay for ongoing contingencies in Bosnia and southwest Asia and desperately needed military pay raises and benefits. The rest of the so-called increase comes from ``smoke and mirrors'', like anticipated lower inflation and fuel costs, cuts in previously funded programs, and an economically unsound incremental funding plan for military construction projects. And even if everything works as planned, the Administration budget short-changes the military next year and every year thereafter. 
   There is a pattern here, Mr. President, of promising everything and delivering very little. Whether it's protecting our citizens from a ballistic missile attack, or maintaining modern, prepared armed forces, this President seems incapable of following through on his commitments. 
   Mr. President, I am uncomfortable with a conclusion that the President does not care about the common defense. I must assume, instead, that he simply fails to understand the imperative of establishing policies and providing needed resources to protect our nation's interests and our citizens. 
   The National Missile Defense Act of 1999 establishes a national policy that we must protect Americans from a clear and present danger--the threat of ballistic missile attack. The President was correct to withdraw his veto threat and join with the Congress to put in place both the policy and the resources that will make our citizens safe. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, we are seeking a UC, which I expect to get sometime relatively soon--at least I hope so. If not, we will have just had a good discussion. But I think we are fairly near to making sure that it is agreeable to all Senators. 
   In the meantime, the Senator from Virginia is missing a very important hearing that concerns some China issues. I would like to have him recognized at this time since he has to leave the floor. 
   The issue is a short-term extension of 60 days of the FAA authorization, with two amendments. We are awaiting approval from the other side of the aisle before we proceed. 
   I yield the floor so that the Senator from Virginia can speak. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, as the Senator from Virginia leaves the floor, I will support his amendment, which allows the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority to collection $30 million of the PFC charge and Airport Improvement Funding Program to complete projects at the Reagan National and Dulles Airports. Full funding for those projects has been delayed until we are able to put in place our corresponding agreement on the reauthorization of the FAA. 
   Mr. President, I have no desire to hold up progress at either airport. I will be proposing, if we get agreement from the other side, the amendment on behalf of Senator WARNER. We have reached an agreement. 
   I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I believe that we should be able to pass this FAA reauthorization in its entirety very quickly through the floor of the Senate. We spent 2 weeks on it last year. This bill is fundamentally the same as it was last year. I am hopeful that the majority leader will seize the time after the recess to spend a day or so on it. 
   I would like to remind my colleague from Virginia that we reached an agreement on flights from Reagan National, Chicago O'Hare, Kennedy, and LaGuardia, the slot-controlled airports last year. And also we had agreement on the perimeter rule. 
   It is not that we can't reach agreement, because we already did. It appears to me that, with the agreement of the majority leader, sometime well within the next 30 days we should get this passed, because we would have to go to conference with the House. As you know, the House bill may contain some rather controversial provisions, including taking the entire aviation trust fund off budget, which is an issue which will be addressed, frankly, by the majority leader, and the chairman of the Budget Committee and others, because it is one that transcends aviation itself.  
   I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator from Virginia. 
   Mr. President, I want to support this proposal to reauthorize the aviation improvement fund for 2 additional months. The Aviation Improvement Program is the Federal program that provides much-needed grants to airports throughout the country. This program will expire on March 31, unless Congress takes some type of action to keep the program going. 
   I remind my colleagues that the majority leader has scheduled to take up the budget all of next week, and it is my understanding that there is a recess after that. So I think we would be well to get this 2-month extension passed today, if we could, since the other body will have to pass it as well. The only change that would be made would be, as we just discussed with the Senator from Virginia, that some of the money that is not being used at this time would proceed with projects at the Reagan National and Dulles Airports. 
   This two-month extension will give the Congress enough time to complete work on comprehensive aviation proposals that are working their way through each chamber. As my colleagues are aware, the Commerce Committee recently reported out S. 82, the Air Transportation Improvement Act. That bill includes numerous provisions that would help the federal government to maintain and improve the safety, security, and capacity of our nation's airports and airways. Furthermore, S. 82 would make great strides in enhancing competition in the airline industry--something that is much needed. 
   Mr. President, I want to point out again that one of the reasons why we should not have a lengthy extension reauthorization is that there are several provisions in the bill that directly affect airline safety. It is not in our interest not to have those provisions enacted into law, not to mention the compelling need that we have to modernize our air traffic control system. 
   I would prefer to have the Senate take up consideration of S. 82 rather than this short-term extension. But I understand that there is other important business pending before the Senate that prevents us from debating it at this time. Given these existing time constraints and the looming expiration of the AIP, there simply may not be enough time for both chambers to pass comprehensive aviation legislation. Therefore, this extension has become necessary. 
   Nevertheless, I look forward to bringing the complete reauthorization bill to the Senate floor for a full debate as soon as possible. Because S. 82 is very similar to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill that passed the Senate last year by a vote of 92 to 1, I am confident that we will be able to move it swiftly soon after the Easter-Passover recess. 
   Despite the immediate need for this extension, the Senate and House are close to meeting our mutually shared goals of enacting significant legislation to improve the state of aviation in this country. A few weeks should give everyone more than enough time to complete this effort. 
   I would now like to outline what is contained in this short-term extension of the AIP. Most important, it would allow the FAA to continue supporting important safety and capacity projects at hundreds of airports around the nation. It also includes several technical amendments requested by the FAA to ensure that the program can be properly managed until we have the opportunity to reauthorize it on a multi-year basis. Authorizations would also be provided for the FAA's Operations account and its Facilities and Equipment programs through the end of this fiscal year. 
   In addition, this proposal would extend the Aviation Insurance Program, which is commonly known as war risk insurance. This program provides insurance for commercial aircraft that are operating in high risk areas, such as countries at war or on the verge of war. Commercial insurers usually will not provide coverage for such operation, which are often required to further U.S. foreign policy or national security policy. 
   This short-term extension would also correct a technical oversight related to the Military Airport Program, which provides grants for the conversion of military aviation facilities to civilian use. When the AIP was extended for six months in last year's omnibus appropriations bill, the MAP was not specifically reauthorized. Consequently, the program is not currently eligible to receive funds. This extension would remedy the situation. 
   I also want to express my appreciation to Majority Leader LOTT and the leadership of the Appropriations Committee for allowing this AIP extension to move through the Senate so quickly. 
   I know the Senate schedule is quite full. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this 2-month extension of the AIP. It will give us sufficient time to fulfill our larger responsibility to enact substantive aviation legislation. I think we owe it to the American people to keep aviation policy high on our list of national priorities. 
   Mr. President, I would like to address the amendment that I will offer on behalf of Senator WARNER, if we get agreement to move forward on this legislation. 
   I support his amendment, which is $30 million for the passenger, use of the passenger facility charge for the Airport Improvement program funding that is applied to complete projects at Reagan National and Dulles Airports. Full Federal funding for these projects will be delayed until we are able to put in place our corresponding agreement on new flights at Reagan National. 
   To his credit, my colleague from Virginia has demonstrated that certain capacity-related, perhaps safety-related projects at National and Dulles should not remain unfunded. I agree we should not allow our negotiations to get in the way of these improvements. 
   Mr. President, my new colleague from Illinois, Senator FITZGERALD, has been involved in this issue for some time. Senator FITZGERALD has previously represented a district in the Illinois State Legislature, the residents of which had a significant involvement in this issue. There are some complicated issues out in the State of Illinois concerning the need for or not the need for an additional airport in Illinois. That has somewhat complicated this issue as regards to Chicago O'Hare Airport. 
   I have had several meetings with Senator FITZGERALD. 
   Senator FITZGERALD is doing his utmost to see if we can't arrive at a reasonable resolution of this issue. I appreciate his immediate attention to this issue, and I am impressed with his in-depth knowledge of this important situation. 
   I look forward to working with him during the period, if we are able to pass it, of this 2-month extension. 
   I note that my friend from Virginia, Senator ROBB, is here. He and I have had a great deal of friendly combat on this issue, and I hope that Senator ROBB would agree to this 2-month extension so that we can continue this friendly but very spirited discussion that he and I have been having for several years. Since Senator ROBB has arrived in the Chamber, I will reserve the remainder of my remarks and yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to say to my friend, Senator ROBB, that it shows I am just an easy mark and pushover; whatever the Senator from Virginia and the good folks out at the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority want, I always try to do. I am sure the Senator is aware of that. 
   Seriously, I do look forward to this debate with Senator ROBB. We may never agree on it, because I know how strongly held his views are, and I believe he is reflecting the views of many of his constituents. But I do want to emphasize that the respectful level of debate, the friendship that exists between us, I think, has been important to me because this has been very emotional. My motives have been probably impugned more than in some years about why I support this legislation. 
   My friend from Virginia has never alleged anything but that we just have different views, and I am very appreciative of that. And I know that the other aspect of the approach of the Senator from Virginia is that he is willing, and has shown in the past an eagerness to debate the issue openly and fairly, taking whatever time is necessary, and then we put it to a vote of the Senate. 
   That is the way we should work around here, and that is the way, to my knowledge, the Senator from Virginia has always operated. So I thank the Senator from Virginia. 
   I yield for the Senator from Virginia. 
   Mr. ROBB addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I ask unanimous consent that it now be in order to proceed to the consideration of S. 643, which is at the desk. I further ask that it be considered under the following limitations: 30 minutes for debate on the bill equally divided in the usual form; the only first-degree amendment in order to the bill be an amendment by Senator WARNER regarding airport funding, and the debate on that amendment be limited to 30 minutes equally divided in the usual form; no other amendments or motions be in order to the bill. I further ask unanimous consent that following the disposition of the above-listed amendment, the bill be read a third time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I made my remarks already about the necessity for this bill, so I would like to now send to the desk the amendment offered by Senator WARNER, for himself, and Mr. ROBB. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, rather than take up the time of the Senate on this amendment, I have described it, both Senators from Virginia have described it, so I note there is no further debate on the amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-10-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I yield the remainder of my time; on behalf of the other side, I yield the remainder of their time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-11-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, finally, I look forward to bringing forward the complete reauthorization bill to the Senate as soon as possible for debate. It is very similar to the FAA reauthorization bill that passed the Senate last year by a vote of 92 to 1. I am confident we will be able to move it soon after the Easter/Passover recess. 
   Mr. President, we are committed to getting this done. I will not reopen the debate with Senator ROBB, as I mentioned. But it was a Federal law that caused a situation where, according to the Department of Transportation, the General Accounting Office, and every other outside organization in this Nation that has observed this situation, they all agree that in the present situation, where the perimeter rule is in place and the slot rule is in place, there is a decrease in competition and higher air fares. That is indisputable. That is  indisputable: higher air fares, less competition. 
   We have had a tremendous increase in complaints by people from all over the country about the air service in America today. Many of those complaints are a direct result of a lack of competition, because the one thing we know, no matter where a service is provided, in what area of the public sector, if there is not competition, there is a commensurate decrease of service. That happens to prevail whether it be selling hamburgers or whether it be department stores or whether it be public transportation or the cable industry or any other. And when we have the deplorable conditions which have provoked an outcry all over America, which has then motivated Senator HOLLINGS, Senator 
   WYDEN and me, with almost unanimous agreement from the entire Commerce Committee, to introduce a bill called the Passengers Protection Act, then it is clear there is something badly wrong with the service that is provided in America today. 
   You can trace it back to lack of competition. When you are the only game in town, you can give about whatever service you want to give. That is the case at National Airport, because there is no fear that there will be additional flights to compete with those that are flying out of National Airport. So I believe very strongly we need to lift this congressionally approved perimeter rule. 
   I will say, without referring to anything that has happened in the past, it is more than coincidental that it happens to reach the western edge of the runway at the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. But I will not go into that debate and discussion at this time. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-12-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-13-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, to complete the unanimous-consent agreement, I ask consent that following the disposition of the amendment, that the bill be read a third time and the Senate proceed to a vote on passage of the bill with no intervening action or debate. 
   I finally ask consent that following that vote, the Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 15, H.R. 99, and all after the enacting clause be stricken and the text of S. 643, as amended, be inserted in lieu thereof, and the bill be read a third time and passed. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-14-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-15-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent the vote take place at 4:15. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-16-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the remainder of my time, and I yield the remainder of Senator HOLLINGS' time. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-17-19990317</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990316</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, ``It was my duty.'' So did my friend and colleague BOB KERREY recently respond to a question by CBS' Bob Schieffer, who had asked my friend why he did it--why he led his elite SEAL team up a 350-foot sheer cliff and then down into the waiting enemy's camp, suffering life-threatening injuries in the process but effectively commanding his team throughout their successful mission. 
   For then-Lieutenant KERREY, his duty was his honor, and his country's cause was his highest calling. That a young man from the plains of Nebraska showed ``conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty'' in Vietnam, as his Medal of Honor citation recalls, reminds us that exceptional heroism can spring from the humblest of roots. 
   It was his duty, BOB says. Near the very beginning of the assault on the Viet Cong camp, a grenade exploded at his feet, injuring him terribly and threatening the success of the mission. In similar circumstances, many men, incapacitated and bleeding, might have given up. Not BOB. His sense of duty did not allow it. 
   His sense of duty compelled him to fight on, despite the trauma of sustaining multiple injuries, including one that would take his leg, and despite the chaos of battle, which has undone other good men who have found themselves in less dire circumstances. 
   BOB's courageous leadership won that battle on a Vietnamese island in Nha Trang Bay thirty years ago. ``I don't remember doing anything especially heroic,'' says the plain-spoken Nebraskan. Although I do not know the men BOB commanded on that fateful day, I do know that their testimonial to his selfless heroism ensured that history recorded my friend's sacrifice. 
   That record, in the form of BOB's Medal of Honor citation, has surely inspired countless Americans in uniform  over the past thirty years. As my colleagues know, it is with reverence and awe that uniformed service members and veterans speak of America's Medal of Honor recipients. They are, indeed, the heroes' heroes. 
   I myself am privileged to have served in the United States Navy, as did my father and grandfather before me. They would tell you, as I do today, how honored we all should be to know a man like BOB KERREY, a man whose fighting spirit earned him the nation's highest award for exceptional military service above and beyond the call of duty. 
   I am deeply honored to serve in the Senate with BOB. Ironically, he would be the first to tell you that he felt little calling for public service when he came home from Vietnam. For he came home not only with a broken body, but with an understandable resentment about the war, and toward those politicians in Washington who conducted it. 
   BOB's faith in our Nation and the values she embodies was reaffirmed by his military service. ``It's a great country that will fight for other people's freedom,'' he says. But his faith in his Government was shaken, as was that of many Americans, after the divisive experience of Vietnam. 
   What restored BOB's faith in his Government? By his reckoning, it was the Philadelphia Naval Hospital where he spent months in surgery and therapy. As BOB has said, the fact that our Government would build and fund a hospital for people like him--anonymous people who had never contributed to a politician's campaign--and provide the medical care they needed, simply because they were wounded Americans, was inspirational. So were the medical staff and volunteers who helped heal his wounds. 
   Faith renewed, BOB went on to become Governor of Nebraska and a U.S. Senator. His independent leadership on some of the toughest issues we face today, including Social Security, education, and tax reform, demonstrates that this man, who gave so much for his country in military service, makes an important contribution to America's governance in peacetime. 
   In the words of BOB's Medal of Honor citation:  
   Lt. (j.g.) Kerrey's courageous and inspiring leadership, valiant fighting spirit, and tenacious devotion to duty in the face of almost overwhelming opposition sustain and enhance the finest traditions of the U.S. Naval Service.  
   That leadership and sense of duty continues to motivate his public service today. 
   BOB's contribution to America's governance may grow. Although he will sit out next year's Presidential race, he may be a contender in the future. In the meantime, I am honored and privileged to work with him in the Senate. 
   Thank you for your valued service, BOB. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990311</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for S. 280, the Education Flexibility Partnership Act of 1999, which would free all fifty states from many of the costly and burdensome federal regulations which are imposed on them by the federal government. These unnecessary regulations prevent their schools from providing innovative and effective academic opportunities for millions of young Americans. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this measure which would expand the current Ed-Flex program to all fifty states. 
   One of the most important issues facing our nation is the education of our children. Providing a solid, quality education for each and every child in our nation is a critical component in their quest for personal success and fulfillment. A solid education for our children also plays a pivotal role in the success of our nation; economically, intellectually, civically and morally. We must strive to develop and implement initiatives which strengthen and improve our education system, thereby ensuring that our children are provided with the essential academic tools for succeeding professionally, economically and personally. 
   The most exciting aspect of this bill is that it brings teaching back to our classrooms and frees our schools from excessive filing, correlating, faxing and shuffling of paper. It would allow schools like Barbara Bush Elementary School in Mesa, Arizona to focus on helping children learn essentials like reading and using a computer. It would allow Barbara Bush Elementary School to focus on teaching its students rather than wasting its valuable educational resources for filing, typing, refiling, and faxing paper to the bureaucrats in Washington, DC. 
   It is important to note that all states which obtain an Ed-Flex waiver must adhere to basic Federal principles, including the protection of civil rights, educational equity and academic accountability. 
   Like many Americans, I have grave concerns about the current condition of our nation's education system. If a report card on our educational system were sent home today, it would be full of unsatisfactory and incomplete marks. In fact, it would be full of ``D's'' and ``F's.'' These abominable grades demonstrate our failure to meet the needs of our nation's students in kindergarten through twelfth grade. 
   Our failure is clearly visible throughout the educational system. One prominent display of our nation's failure is seen in the results of the Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). Over forty countries participated in the 1996 study which tested science and mathematical abilities of students in the fourth, eighth 
    and twelfth grades. Tragically, our students scored lower than students in other countries. According to this study, our twelfth graders scored near the bottom, placing 19th out of 21 nations in math and 16th in science, while scoring at the absolute bottom in physics. 
   Meanwhile, students in countries which are struggling economically, socially and politically, such as Russia, outscored U.S. children in math and scored far above them in advanced math and physics. Clearly, we must make significant changes in our children's academic performance in order to remain a viable force in the world economy. 
   We can also see our failure when we look at the Federal Government's efforts to combat illiteracy. We spend over $8 billion a year on programs to eradicate illiteracy across the country. Yet, we have not seen any significant improvement in literacy in any segment of our population. Today, more than 40 million Americans cannot read a menu, instructions, medicine labels or a newspaper. And, tragically, four out of ten children in third grade cannot read.  
   Another clear sign of our failure is displayed by the inadequate preparation of many students when they exit the system. The number of college freshmen who require remedial courses in reading, writing and mathematics when they begin their higher education is unacceptably high. In fact, presently, more than 30 percent of entering freshman need to enroll in one or more remedial courses when they start college. Equally dismal is a Wall Street Journal report that two-thirds of job applicants for a division of the Ford Motor Company ``fail a test in which they are asked to add fractions.'' It does not bode well for our future economy if the majority of workers are not prepared with the basic skills to engage in a competitive global marketplace. 
   I am also disturbed by the disproportionate amount of federal education dollars which actually reach our students and schools. It is deplorable that the vast majority of federal education funds do not reach our school districts, schools and children. In 1995, the Department of Education spent $33 billion for education and only 13.1 percent of that reached the local education agencies. It is unacceptable that less than 13 percent of the funds directly reached the individuals schools and their students. 
   My home state of Arizona receives approximately $420 million each year in federal education funding. These funds account for seven percent of Arizona's education budget, yet it takes almost half of the staff at the State Department of Education to administer the numerous rules and regulations which accompany the federal dollars. This means that half of the Arizona Department of Education staff is busy working on Federal paperwork rather than developing improved curriculum, helping teachers with professional development skills and working to improve the quality of education for Arizona children. This is a sad commentary on the current structure of our educational system. 
   Much of the Federal Government's involvement in education is highly 
   bureaucratic, overly regulatory, and actually impedes our children's learning. Clearly, we need to be more innovative in our approach to educating our children. We need to focus on providing parents, teachers, and local communities with the flexibility, freedom, and, yes, the financial support to address the unique educational needs of their children and the children in their communities. This is precisely what the Ed-Flex program does. It removes the obstacles for innovative, productive and successful educational initiatives in our classrooms and frees our schools from the choking grip of federal bureaucrats. 
   Mr. President, it is absolutely crucial, as we debate this and other proposals to reform our educational system, that we not lose sight of the fact that our paramount goal must be to increase the academic knowledge and skills of our nation's students. Our children are our future, and if we neglect their educational needs, we threaten that future. 
   I am gravely concerned that goal is sometimes lost in the very spirited and often emotional debate on education policies and responsibilities. Instead, this should be a debate about how best to ensure that young Americans will be able to compete globally in the future. I believe the key to academic excellence is broadening educational opportunities and providing families and communities both the responsibility and the resources to choose the best course for their students. 
   Ed-Flex is an important step in our journey to improve our nation's education system and better prepare our children so that each of them has much more than their individual dreams of becoming an astronaut, fire fighter or pilot. The bill is an important step towards ensuring that our children not only dream but have the capacity to make their dreams a reality. This is what education is all about--providing an endless realm of possibilities through knowledge. But it is just the first of many steps which we need to make to ensure that the best interests of our children, our future are being realized. I look forward to working with my colleagues as we continue this journey towards a strong and successful educational system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990304</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Morris King Udall, former United States Representative from Arizona, and extending the condolences of the Congress on his death. 
   An anonymous poet wrote that, ``virtue is a man's monument.'' Undoubtedly, the wise poet had in mind a soul the likes of Morris King Udall, a man of monumental virtue. 
   Mo Udall was an extraordinary human being who lived an extraordinary life. Of humble beginnings, the son of St. Johns, Arizona rose to become one of the most influential and beloved legislators in the history of our Republic. 
   We are thankful for the gift of his company. We remember his brave journey. And we celebrate a remarkable life well-lived. 
   For over 30 years, Mo Udall graced our national and political life with his sweet humility, gentle kindness and legendary wit. A man of keen vision and great heart, he exemplified all that is good and decent about public service. 
   Mo Udall was what we all want our leaders to be. He was a powerful man who cared not about power for its own sake, but saw it as an opportunity--a sacred responsibility to do good as he saw it--to champion noble causes. His many important successes are written in the laws of our nation. 
   His legacy endures in the halls of the Congress, with men and women whom he humbled and instructed with his example. It endures among Native Americans whose welfare and progress he made his great purpose. And, it endures in the American parks and wildlands he fought to protect with his vision and his guiding ethic of environmental stewardship. 
   It is fitting that the easternmost point of the United States, in the Virgin Islands, and the westernmost point, in Guam are both named Udall Point. The sun will never set on the legacy of Mo Udall. 
   Carl Albert, former speaker of the House, said that Mo had written one of the most remarkable legislative records of all time. And he was right. 
   But Mo Udall will not be remembered simply for his prolific legislative achievements or the landmarks that bear his name. His most extraordinary monument is the virtue with which he lived his life and served his country. 
   He fought the good fight in a touch arena, while remaining a man of unsurpassed integrity, boundless compassion and unfailing good humor. He knew glorious victories and bitter defeats, serene contentment and profound suffering. Through it all, he remained a humble man of uncommon decency whose example offers a stark contrast to the meanness, pettiness and pride that soil too much of our political culture. 
   Mo was never known to be moved by flattery, puffed by tribute, or impressed by his own success. He knew that a man is only as great as the cause he serves--a cause that should be greater than himself. 
   Now did we ever know Mo to be discouraged in defeat. Through injury, illness, disappointment and, from time to time, failure, he was a fighter. 
   His humble perspective was as wise as it was delightful to observe. He leavened his wisdom with his legendary wit. Mo employed humor not simply to entertain, which he did like no other, but as a subtle and benevolent instrument to calm troubled waters, to instruct the unknowing, to humble the arrogant, and to inspire us all to be better and to do better. 
   Most often he was the target of his own barbs. He loved to tell the story about his campaign visit to a local barbershop where he announced his run for the presidency, and, as Mo told it, the barber answered. ``We know. We were just laughing about that.'' Most certainly an apocryphal story, but typical of Mo to tell it on himself. 
   Mo once said, ``the best political humor, however sharp or pointed, has a little love behind it. It's the spirit of the humor that counts *.*.* over the years it has served me when nothing else could.'' It has served us well too. 
   While most remembrances of Mo focus on his grace, humor, and environmental leadership, perhaps understated is what he did for Native Americans. When very few cared enough. Mo Udall toiled in an often fruitless and thankless vineyard on Indian issues. Moved by their desperate poverty and duty bound to honor the dignity of the first Americans and the solemn commitments made to them, Mo took up their just cause. He didn't do it for praise or recognition, he did it because it was the right thing to do. That was all the motivation and thanks he needed, and it characterized so aptly the benevolence of his political life. 
   How proud Mo must be that a new generation of Udalls have entered Congress. May their careers, like Mo's, light the way to more enlightened and civil public discourse. 
   The Navajo say ``May you walk in beauty.'' All his days, Mo Udall walked in beauty and he shared his beauty generously with us all. He is gone now, and we will miss him. 
   May we find cheer in the echoes of Mo Udall, the little boy from St. John's who became a giant, touching us one more time with those words we always loved to hear, ``I'm reminded of a story.*.*.*.'' 
   May each of us--may our country--forever find cheer, instruction and inspiration in his story. A story of monumental virtue. The remarkable story of Morris K. Udall. 
   Mr. DASCHLE addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, pursuant to the requirements of paragraph 2 of Senate Rule XXVI, I ask to have printed in the RECORD the rules of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation for the 106th Congress adopted by the committee on January 20, 1999. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990302</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation with my dear friend Senator JOHN KERRY which would protect every American's fundamental right to vote. Our bill, ``Improving Accessibility to Voting for Disabled and Elderly Americans'' will ensure that every citizen who wants to vote will be able to vote despite physical disabilities. 
   The McCain-Kerry bill would strengthen and redefined the existing law, ``Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped.'' As many of my colleagues know, Congress implemented this law in 1984 in an attempt to ensure that all Americans has access to voter registration and polling places. At the time this was quite a progressive initiative since it was 15 years prior to the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act which as since helped opened the door for millions of disabled Americans in many aspects of their lives. 
   As a Member of the House of Representatives, I proudly supported the original 1984 law and was confident that it would eliminate the barriers facing millions of disabled and elderly citizens when they exercise their basic right to vote. Unfortunately, it did not. While it was a step in the right direction it has not completely eradicated inaccessible polling facilities. According to the most recent Federal Election Commission report, which relies on self-reporting by local election officials during the 1992 election, there were at least 19,500 inaccessible polling places. This is not including 9,500 polling places which did not file reports. And since this information is based on self-reporting I am afraid that the actual number of inaccessible polling places may be much higher. 
   It is deplorable that millions of disabled and elderly voters are not voting because they are faced with too many obstacles, including inaccessible polling places and ballots which are not accessible to blind or visually impaired voters. I find it particularly disconcerning that many of our nation's disabled veterans, the very men and women who have sacrificed so much for our country, are unable to cast their vote because of polling facilities which are not accessible. This is simply wrong. The right to vote is the heat and soul of our democracy, and we must work together to eliminate barriers preventing millions from participating in our democracy. 
   As America works together for our journey into the new millennium we must ensure that our Democracy continues to include everyone and address the unique needs of each citizen. I am concerned about voter turnout in the last election cycle, 1998 was the lowest since 1942--only 36 percent of eligible voters participated. It is difficult to have representation of the people by the people if the majority of people are not participating. 
   I find this lack of participation quite disturbing, particularly as our Nation prepares to enter the next century facing a multitude of important issues. What is even more disturbing is the number of citizens who wanted to participate in our election process but were unable to because of inaccessible polling facilities. This is why I am committed to working with Senator KERRY to get this bill passed so that every citizen, particularly the men and women who pledged their lives, fortunes and sacred honor to preserve and protect our Nation, can participate in the voting process. 
   I hope that my colleagues in the Senate will work with us to enact this important piece of legislation this year so that all Americans can exercise their right to vote with dignity and respect. 
   This legislation is supported by the Paralyzed Veterans of America, American Foundation for the Blind, New Hampshire Disabilities Rights Center, New Hampshire Developmental Disabilities Council, Granite State Independent Living Foundation, and National Association of Protection and Advocacy Systems. I would like to thank each of them for their commitment to protecting the rights of disabled and elderly Americans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990225</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I introduce the Urban Homestead act, a bill designed to reform the way in which the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) disposes of unoccupied and substandard housing stock. 
   In summary, the Urban Homestead Act would require HUD, every six months, to publish in the National Register a complete listing of all single, and multi-family housing stock that has been in the Department's inventory for at least six months. Further, HUD is required to publish a complete listing of all substandard housing stock in the same manner. Locally based community development corporations would then be allowed to petition HUD for possession of these properties. HUD would be required to transfer the properties to the CDC free of cost. 
   There are few more obnoxious examples of government inefficiency and ineffectiveness than that of HUD's inability to address the housing needs of low-income families. HUD is notorious for its bloated bureaucracy and malfeasance in administering our nations public housing assistance programs. Nowhere is this ineptitude more glaringly obvious than in HUD's disposition of housing stock. 
   In our nation's inner cities, there are thousands of quiet heroes, struggling against and conquering near-insurmountable obstacles in efforts to revitalize their communities. They are winning the battle one house, one street, one neighborhood at a time. 
   These organizations are as unique as the communities and neighborhoods in which they work their magic. It is their ability to adapt to the local demands of their neighborhoods which is the key to their success. However, one challenge which is the same, regardless of what community they are operating in, is the vacant house. These abandoned houses play host to all types of criminal activity. They are crack houses, centers of gang activities, and prostitution. You name it. The abandoned house has become a symbol of urban blight. 
   I ask my colleagues, who do you think is to blame for this outrage? A slum lord, or an absentee owner, perhaps a greedy land speculator? In some instances, this may be the case. But a principal culprit responsible for kneecapping the efforts of these neighborhood heroes is non-other-than the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Many of these homes are the product of FHA foreclosures. They are the product of lax lending habits and pathetic administration of the HUD property disposition program. 
   Well, Mr. President, it is my intention to put HUD out of the slumlord business. The legislation I introduce today sends a very simple message to HUD. They have six months to get a property on the market and sold. If they fail to get the job done, they're going to have to turn the property over to a CDC and they'll get the job done for them. 
   By channeling these properties into the hands of CDCs providing home ownership opportunities to low-income families, we will be accomplishing several important objectives. First, we will be placing a valuable resource into the hands of not-for-profits who may otherwise lack the capital resources to purchase the housing stock. Secondly, we get the property back in circulation. In doing so, it ceases to be a center for criminal activity and a symbol of blight. Finally, and most important, these organizations will use this housing stock to do what HUD has failed to accomplish. They will provide low-income families a piece of the American dream--a chance at home ownership. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of S. 4, the Soldiers', Sailors', Airmen's and Marines' Bill of Rights. Since Desert Storm I have been extremely concerned that our military has been losing the cutting edge and their ability to respond to crises or to maintain our superiority throughout the world. 
   We have all watched as our Armed Forces became increasingly unable to retain their most qualified warfighters, fell short of their recruiting goals, and suffered severe morale problems across mission areas of each service. We heard repeatedly from the Department of Defense that they ``could do more with less'', until last September when the service chiefs came to us and confessed a very bleak picture indeed. 
   Even as our military has been downsized to a more streamlined force, the Administration has deployed our servicemembers more and more into harm's way. With 6,700 troops still in Bosnia, two years after the original deadline for their withdrawal, we are preparing the ground for the deployment of 4,000 additional soldiers and Marines into Kosovo. And make no mistake, Kosovo is a considerably more complicated situation than existed in Bosnia. The United States does not support the Kosovar Albanian goal of independence, and so recognizes the right of Serbia to maintain control of its territory. At the same time, the brutality and utter ruthlessness with which President Milosevic has and continues to prosecute his campaign against the Albanian population of Kosovo demands the international community take steps to compel a termination of his actions. Slobodan Milosevic represents the personification of a kind of tyranny we had hoped we had seen the last of with the death of Stalin, yet which continues to appear in places like Uganda, Cambodia, and, in the 1990s, Yugoslavia. He must be curtailed through forceful persuasion, not only because objective morality dictates we do so, but because the Kosovar Albanians deserve to know that the more recalcitrant party to the talks and the overwhelmingly greater threat to human rights will be held accountable for his actions. 
   Toward that end, the President has made a commitment to dispatch U.S. forces to Kosovo. It is with great reluctance that I will not oppose that deployment, as the risks to U.S. national interests should the fighting in Kosovo spread beyond its confines could be substantial, involving our Greek and Turkish allies and other countries threatened with internal dissension. But my support is qualified upon a series of measures that have yet to emerge as part of the Clinton Administration's overall approach to foreign policy and the role of force in support of that policy. Prior to the deployment, there must be a clearly established set of criteria for determining the nature and 
   duration of the operation. There should be an exit strategy for how to withdraw those forces upon the completion of a mission understood by our military commanders in the field as well as by the American public here at home, or to extract them should fighting on the scale of that witnessed over the past year resume. 
   Under no circumstances should U.S. forces be sent into Kosovo without clearly articulated rules of engagement. Peacekeeping missions are fraught with uncertainties regarding the identity of combatants within civilian populations. Our military personnel must know that they have authority to respond to threats with the requisite degree of force, and without having to go through the kind of bureaucratic and political nightmare that characterized the war in neighboring Bosnia-Herzegovina. There must be no dual-key arrangement. If this is a NATO operation, then NATO alone should dictate when force is used to compel the parties to comply with their obligations. Neither the so-called Contact Group nor the United Nations should be permitted to insert itself into operational aspects of the mission. If these conditions are met, up front, then I will support the deployment, albeit reluctantly. 
   And, finally, the Administration should take one other step it has been historically reluctant to take: it should indicate how it intends to pay for the operation. It should not, as it  has done in the past, provide vague references to future supplemental appropriations bills and then draw the funds from existing, dedicated accounts. It should, even before the deployment begins, work with Congress to provide the requisite funds without depleting operations and maintenance and missile defense accounts. 
   Skepticism, in this regard, is warranted. A historically high rate of deployments combined with a major reduction in overall force structure has caused readiness problems in the military that threaten our ability to respond to future contingencies in which vital interests are at stake. The Administration ignored this problem for six years, and its fiscal year 2000 budget submission is excessively replete with budget gimmickry that makes me question its commitment to correct near and long-term readiness problems. 
   Before I leave the issue of Kosovo, let me just state that the events that just took place in France are certainly not the United States' finest hour in diplomacy. The President of the United States said that if two--not one but two--deadlines were reached that the United States would act militarily. They allowed those to pass. Somehow now a period of 3 weeks is supposed to take place while Kosovar Albanians consult with one another to decide whether or not they will abide by certain provisions of a proposed, as yet unseen peace agreement. 
   Mr. President, the United States squandered a lot of credibility during this period of time, and there were a broad variety of reasons why that happened, including allowing the conduct of these negotiations to be supervised by others rather than the United States. But fundamentally there was a misunderstanding of the problem--a misunderstanding of the motivation of the participants, and very frankly there has been a commensurate erosion of U.S. credibility during this entire series of negotiations. I do not know how it is going to come out, but I think the prospects of further bloodletting have been increased as a result of these negotiations rather than the stated goal of them being decreased. 
   It is the growth of those problems that brings us to where we are today; that bring us to consideration of the legislation before the Senate. 
   Mr. President, this bipartisan bill contains a package of benefits for the Armed Forces that would go a very long way to fixing the readiness problems facing all the services. It combines overall pay increases with retirement incentives, exciting new savings plans, and educational benefits. It addresses the issue of service members on food stamps. It is focused and balanced, and directly answers the most pressing needs as stated by the service chiefs and service secretaries. 
   Military pay, by almost all accounts, has fallen considerably behind civilian pay. Arguments can be made as to the precise pay differential, and at which pay grades and mission ares it is greatest, but there is no credible argument as to whether we need to address the pay gap. This is accomplished by the bill's proposed pay raise of 4.8 percent next year and raises based on the employment cost index plus half a percent thereafter. 
   The tables that define military base pays for all ranks are archaic and badly in need of reform. Middle leadership positions for both enlisted and officers have to be rewarding. Few service members actually see themselves becoming the Master Sergeant of the Army or the Chief of Naval Operations. Many, however, do aspire to the rank of Army Lieutenant Colonel or Navy Senior Chief. Our legislation proposes a sweeping reform of the pay tables, rewarding service and promotion without over-compensating very senior officers. 
   The reduced retirement plan implemented in 1986, known as Redux, is a major morale issue with service members. Although no one has retired under this plan, it is a constant reminder that military service is under-appreciated. Even if a service member is not affected by this plan, it is a morale issue because many of his peers and subordinates are. Repealing REDUX across the board is expensive, which is why our legislation gives the service member the choice of switching to the pre-REDUX plan or remaining with REDUX and taking a $30,000 bonus, which can in turn be rolled tax-free into the thrift savings plan. Many service members would choose this alternative in response to the needs of their family in the near term. 
   Our bill also offers service members an opportunity to save for their future. The new thrift savings plan established in this bill allows members to put aside up to 5 percent of their pay and all special bonuses, tax free, in a plan that does require them to serve a full career of 20 years to earn that ``nest egg''. Each service is given the discretion of matching these funds up to the full 5 percent. 
   The legislation also increases the monthly educational benefit of the GI Bill, allows lump sum payments up-front for school tuition, and cancels the servicemember's obligation to contribute the $1200 required to receive full benefits. Most importantly, it allows the transfer of these benefits to immediate family members, a proposal that will be welcomed with open arms by servicemembers struggling to put children through college. 
   Lastly, S. 4 includes a provision for a special subsistence allowance that will take almost 10,000 service members off food 
   stamps. This benefit will help the most junior and most needy of our hard-working enlisted troops. It will remove the stigma of food stamps from the military family and it will do so fairly, without aggravating pay discrepancies, and in an honorable manner. 
   Mr. President, much has been said about this bill that is flat wrong. S. 4, as reported by the Senate Armed Services Committee, is not significantly more expensive than the Administration's proposal, and, in fact, may well be cheaper depending on the number of service members who choose to remain on the reduced retirement plan and take the $30,000 bonus. Seemingly subtle differences between S. 4 and the Administration's proposal are not lost on our bright young fighting men and women. S. 4 offers half a percent higher pay raise next year, no cost-of-living allowance caps, the opportunity for individual thrift svings plans, exciting educational benefits, and a special subsistence allowance that will help those most needy junior military families who today must use food stamps to make ends meet. 
   I must admit that I have great concern about the potential for ``Christmas tree'' amendments on this bill that inflate its costs well beyond what has been requested by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and what is clearly necessary to restore morals and personnel readiness. However, I am hopeful that any excessive or irrelevant provisions added during floor debate will be fairly addressed in confrerence with the House. 
   Mr. President, our bill will have profound and immediate positive effects on morale and retention. In fact, I have heard from several service members over the last month who are deferring their decision to leave their service based on what we do here in Congress. They will not wait forever. 
   Mr. President our military personnel need and deserve our immediate attention on this critical issue. These are the men and women who defend our nation day and night, 365 days a year, at home and overseas. They need our support and our appreciation. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and to work for a streamlined process that will expeditiously take the benefits of S. 4 to our fighting men and women. 
   I especially thank the distinguished chairman of the committee, Senator WARNER, who decided last year that this had to be our highest priority. He is keenly aware of the problems of morale and retention that affect our men and women in the military, which was so graphically demonstrated last year when the Joint Chiefs came over. 
   Have no doubt, have no doubt, that the men and women in the military are watching what we do. I have already heard, as others have heard, this may be delayed; that the administration wants to delay it; some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want it delayed; some of my colleagues on this side of the aisle are saying it is too expensive; we should not move forward with it. 
   Mr. President, what is more outrageous than having 11,000 enlisted families whom we are asking to defend this Nation existing on food stamps? That is an outrage and an insult to all of us as Americans. Don't we care enough about these young men and  women that we are willing to do what we can to get them off food stamps, and do it quickly? Aren't we aware that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff came over and testified before the Armed Services Committee and said the reason we are not keeping these good men and women, the No. 1 reason, is because of the retirement system? 
   I read editorials in the Washington Post--I think the chairman said there are two--that this is a bad idea; it affects the retirement system. 
   What in the world does the Washington Post know? I challenge the editorial writer of the Washington Post to go out to any of these ships, any of these Army units, any Marine or Air Force base, and ask them why they are not staying in; ask them why their morale is at a low that we have not seen since the 1970s; ask them why their subordinates and their peers are not remaining in the military. 
   They will tell the editorial writers and the skeptics who oppose this legislation, just as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff did last September, that is the No. 1 issue. You can run all the computer studies, you can run all these numbers you want, you can say this doesn't really matter, but, Mr. President, it does matter to them. It does matter to them. Ask any of them. And that is what we are trying to face here. 
   Yes, I want to join my friend, the chairman, in my concern about so much being added to this bill. A lot of these are very good things that are being added with these amendments, and I am sure they will play well with certain constituencies. But I want to tell my colleagues, I have every confidence that when we go to conference we are going to strip a lot out of this, because we cannot have this thing overloaded to the point where it falls of its own weight. 
   The priorities we have are restoring the morale and retaining the men and women in the military. I would argue that almost any amendment on this bill which does not directly apply to that objective perhaps should be taken up another day, in the normal course of the authorization bill which we will probably bring to the floor sometime this coming summer. In the meantime, we cannot wait. We cannot wait. 
   I received a letter yesterday from a naval officer who said: If this legislation is passed, then I and many of my colleagues will not make the decision that many of us had already made, and that is to leave the military. 
   This is an important issue. We are about to send our young 
   men and women into harm's way again in Kosovo, whether the majority of my colleagues happen to agree with that decision or not. Are we supposed to send them immediately into harm's way and tell them, well, we will have to wait on this issue of giving you a decent pay and allowance and a decent retirement system, at least in your view that is badly needed, or are we going to address those problems immediately? 
   I won't go into it further, but there are times when I am reminded of the old Kipling poem about, ``It's Tommy this, an' Tommy that,'' but when the drums begin to roll, it is, ``Mr. Thompson, if you please.'' 
   I urge my colleagues to allow us to move forward as rapidly as possible with this legislation. Let's narrow down the amendments. Let's move forward with this, with the assurance to all of our colleagues that many of their worthy amendments should be addressed in a proper process. 
   I thank the chairman, Senator WARNER, again, along with Senator LEVIN, but especially Senator WARNER whose experience and knowledge of men and women in the service is unequaled by any in this body, including his dedicated service to our Nation in the military, albeit it was in the Spanish-American War. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. It was my understanding that Senator COVERDELL would like to do that. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Senator. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. If the Senator will yield, I do want to help him in getting these amendments narrowed down. It is time, I tell all my colleagues, to move forward. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I have not had a chance to examine it, but I would like to do it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. I thank the chairman. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today in support of Senator COVERDELL's sense-of-the-Senate amendment to S. 4, the Soldiers', Sailors', Airmen's and Marines' Bill of Rights expressing support for legislation to provide a two-month interest- and penalty-free extension to file Federal taxes for U.S. military personnel who are on duty abroad. 
   I recently supported this concept as an original cosponsor of S. 308, the Uniformed Services Filing Fairness Act, which provided a two-month interest- and penalty-free extension to file Federal taxes for U.S. military personnel who are on duty abroad. This simple fix to an isolated section of our overly complex tax code is very straightforward and would only cost $2 million over 5 years. 
   Current Treasury regulations allow military personnel to file Federal tax forms on June 15 rather than April 15. However, filers who elect to use this exception are still subject to interest and penalties during that two-month grace period. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the Senior Senator from Washington state, SLADE GORTON, and I have committed to working on legislation to address liability issues arising out of Y2K problems. To this end, I introduced S. 96. As Senator GORTON and I agreed before the bill was filed, we have been listening to concerns and views of the varied constituencies interested in limiting wasteful litigation and encouraging prevention and timely remediation of Y2K problems. I am very pleased that today we are offering into the record a revised working draft for additional input and discussion. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990224</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. I intend to mark up Y2K liability legislation in the Commerce Committee next week so that it can be considered by the full Senate as soon as possible. If the bill is to serve the needs for which it is designed, it must be passed expeditiously. We cannot have the intended effect of encouraging businesses to be proactive in preventing Y2K failures if we delay action on this bill until later in the session. This bill addresses an immediate need, and the Senate must act on it accordingly. I ask unanimous consent that the draft measure be printed in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990223</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Veterans' Equal Access to Medicare Act, which would authorize a demonstration of Medicare subvention within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system. Many of us supported similar legislation sponsored by Senator JEFFORDS and incorporated into the Senate version of the 1997 Budget Resolution. Unfortunately, this measure was removed by the conferees to the bill and did not become law. In the 105th Congress, separate legislation authorizing a test of Medicare subvention for veterans passed the House of Representatives but stalled in the Senate. The intervening period has only made more apparent the benefits of allowing Medicare-eligible veterans to use their Medicare entitlement for care at local VA medical facilities. 
   The Veterans' Equal Access to Medicare Act would establish a three-year demonstration project at up to 10 sites around the country, including a site near a military medical facility closed under the Base Realignment and Closure process and a site in an area where the target population is predominantly rural. The VA would bill Medicare for Medicare-covered services provided to eligible veterans at these sites. Veterans' participation would be voluntary, and participants would make the same Medicare co-payments to the VA as at non-VA facilities. 
   The legislation also contains important safeguards. The VA's Inspector General must certify the accounting and managerial capabilities of participating facilities; the VA must maintain its current level of effort to prevent cost shifting from the VA to the Medicare Trust Fund; the Comptroller General must audit the demonstration project annually to ensure that the Medicare Trust Fund does not incur any additional costs; and Medicare payments to the VA must be capped at $50 million annually. After three years, the Secretaries of Health and Human Services and Veterans Affairs would be required to submit recommendations to Congress on whether to extend or expand the project. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. Chief Justice, I intend to vote to convict the President of the United States on both articles of impeachment. To say I do so with regret will sound trite to some, but I mean it sincerely. I deeply regret that this day has come to pass. 
   I bear no animosity for the President. I take no partisan satisfaction from this matter. I don't lightly dismiss the public's clear opposition to conviction. And I am genuinely concerned that the institution of the Presidency not be harmed, either by the President's conduct, or by Congress' reaction to his conduct. 
   Indeed, I take no satisfaction at all from this vote, with one exception--and an important exception it is--that by voting to convict I have been spared reproach by my conscience for shirking my duty. 
   The Senate faces an awful choice, to be sure. But, to my mind, it is a clear choice. I am persuaded that the President has violated his oath of office by committing perjury and by obstructing justice, and that by so doing he has forfeited his office. 
   As my colleagues across the aisle have so often reminded me, the country does not want the President removed. And, they ask, are we not, first and foremost, servants of the public will? Even if we believe the President to be guilty of the offenses charged, and even if we believe those offenses rise to the level of impeachment, should we risk the national trauma of forcing his removal against the clearly expressed desire of the vast majority of Americans that he should not be removed even if he is guilty of perjury and obstruction of justice? 
   I considered that question very carefully, and I arrived at an answer by reversing the proposition. If a clear majority of the American people were to demand the conviction of the President, should I vote for his conviction even if I believed the President to be innocent of the offenses he is charged with? Of course not. Neither, then, should I let public opinion restrain me from voting to convict if I determine the President is guilty. 
   But are these articles of impeachment of sufficient gravity to warrant removal or can we seek their redress by some other means short of removing the President from office? Some of those who argue for a lesser sanction, including the President's able counsel, contend that irrespective of the President's guilt or innocence, neither of the articles charge him with high crimes and misdemeanors. Nothing less than an assault on the integrity of our constitutional government rises to that level. The President's offenses were committed to cover up private not public misconduct. Therefore, if he thwarted justice he did so for the perfectly understandable and forgivable purpose of keeping hidden an embarrassing personal shortcoming that, were it discovered, would harm only his family and his reputation, but would not impair our system of government. 
   This, too, is an appealing rationalization for acquittal. But it is just that, a rationalization. Nowhere in the Constitution or in the expressed views of our founders are crimes intended to conceal the President's character flaws distinguished from crimes intended to subvert democracy. The President thwarted justice. No matter how unfair he or we may view a process that forces a President to disclose his own failings, we should not excuse or fail to punish in the constitutionally prescribed manner evidence that the President has deliberately thwarted the course of justice. 
   I do not desire to sit in judgement of the President's private misconduct. It is truly a matter for him and his family to resolve. I sincerely wish circumstances had allowed the President to keep his personal life private. I have done things in my private life that I am not proud of. I suspect many of us have. But we are not asked to judge the President's character flaws. We are asked to judge whether the President, who swore an oath to faithfully execute his office, deliberately subverted--for whatever purpose--the rule of law. 
   All of my life, I have been instructed never to swear an oath to my country in vain. In my former profession, those who violated their sworn oath were punished severely and considered outcasts from our society. I do not hold the President to the same standard that I hold military officers to. I hold him to a higher standard. Although I may admit to failures in my private life, I have at all times, and to the best of my ability, kept faith with every oath I have ever sworn to this country. I have known some men who kept that faith at the cost of their lives. 
   I cannot--not in deference to public opinion, or for political considerations, or for the sake of comity and friendship--I cannot agree to expect less from the President. 
   Most officers of my acquaintance would have resigned their commission had they been discovered violating their oath. The President did not choose that course of action. He has left it to the Senate to determine his fate. And the Senate, as we all know, is going to acquit the President. As much as I would like to, I cannot join in his acquittal. 
   The House managers have made, and I believe some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would agree, a persuasive case that the President is guilty of perjury and obstruction. The circumstances that led to these offenses may be tawdry, trivial to some, and usually of a very private nature. But the President broke the law. Not a tawdry law, not a trivial law, not a private law. 
   The tortured explanations with which the President's attorneys have tried to defend him against both articles fail to raise reasonable doubts about his guilt. It seems clear to me, and to most Americans, that the President deliberately lied under oath, and that he tried to encourage others to lie under oath on his behalf. Presidents may not be excused from such an abuse no matter how intrusive, how unfair, how distasteful are the judicial proceedings they attempt to subvert. 
   The President's defenders want to know how can I be certain that the offenses, even if true, warrant removal from office. They are not expressly mentioned in the Constitution as impeachable offenses. Nor did the founders identify perjury or obstruction as high crimes or high misdemeanors. Were an ordinary citizen accused of perjury in a civil proceeding he or she would in all likelihood not be prosecuted or forced out of political necessity into a perjury trap. 
   No, an ordinary citizen would not be treated as the President has been treated. But ordinary citizens don't enforce the laws for the rest of us. Ordinary citizens don't have the world's mightiest armed forces at their command. Ordinary citizens do not usually have the opportunity to be figures of historical importance. 
   Presidents are not ordinary citizens. They are extraordinary, in that they  are vested with so much more authority and power than the rest of us. We have a right; indeed, we have an obligation, to hold them strictly accountable to the rule of law. 
   Are perjury and obstruction of justice expressly listed as high crimes and misdemeanors? No. Why? Because they are self-evidently so. Just as the President is self-evidently the nation's chief law enforcement officer, despite his attorneys' quibbling to the contrary. It is self-evident to us all, I hope, that we cannot overlook, dismiss or diminish the obstruction of justice by the very person we charge with taking care that the laws are faithfully executed. It is self-evident to me. And accordingly, regretfully, I must vote to convict the President, and urge my colleagues to do the same.'' 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I also report favorably three nomination lists in the Coast Guard which were printed in full in the RECORD of February 3, 1999, and ask unanimous consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar, that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of Senators. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990211</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Addiction Free Treatment Act which reforms our nation's drug policy regarding the treatment of heroin addiction. 
   This bill would restrict Medicaid reimbursements and funding through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for methadone and LAM maintenance programs. Maintenance programs would be limited to six months. The bill requires that such programs conduct regular drug testing, report all results, and terminate methadone treatment to any patient testing positive for any illegal drugs. The legislation directs the National Institute of Drug Abuse to study the methods and effectiveness of nonpharmacological, and methadone-to-abstinence heroin rehabilitation programs, and requires the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment to provide an annual report to Congress on the relative effectiveness of heroin treatment programs in achieving freedom from chemical dependency. 
   Mr. President, few crises represent a more fundamental threat to the basic institutions of our society then substance abuse and addiction, and there are few drugs that do more harm than heroin. Heroin use in the United States continues to rise. Drug use among teenagers is increasing and the number of teenagers using heroin for the first time is higher than at any other point in our history. Between 1992 and 1996, heroin use among college-age students increased an estimated 10 percent. Currently, there are an estimated 810,000 chronic heroin addicts living in the United States with over 115,000 heroin addicts participating in methadone programs. 
   Drug addiction undermines family, work, friendships, and communities. The drug trade, which feeds the addict, undermines the security and stability of our neighborhoods through violence and other crime-related phenomena. 
   At its core, drug addiction does violence to the basic humanity of the addict, robbing him or her of the most fundamental element of their existence--their freedom. The addict is enslaved by the need to get a fix; all other needs become secondary to the physical 
   and psychological drive to feed the hunger of addiction. This enslavement goes to the core of the debate surrounding the use of methadone maintenance as a solution to heroin addiction: What have we done to restore the human condition if we have not freed the addict of chemical dependency? 
   Methadone maintenance programs simply transfer addiction from one narcotic to another. The methadone patient is every bit as dependent on methadone as he or she was with heroin. Patients who attempt to free themselves from their addiction to methadone experience withdrawal symptoms that are as violent, if not more than, those they would experience coming off of heroin. What is more, even the promise of freedom from illegal drug use is an illusion. For many methadone patients regularly test positive for other illegal drugs. And yet, for some 30 years, the only hope that U.S. policy has offered to our citizens addicted to heroin is an Orwellian addiction swap. 
   In the 105th Congress, I, along with Senator COATS and Senator COVERDELL, introduced a Senate Resolution addressing the topic of methadone treatment. The resolution was a response to an emerging Clinton Administration policy designed to dramatically increase the federal government's activities in the area of methadone treatment. Barry McCaffrey, the so-called Drug Czar, proposed that ONDCP would double the number of heroin addicts in methadone treatment. Mr. President, this sounds less like the policy of a Drug Czar, and more like the policy of a drug bazaar--a bazaar where the federal government trades places with the street dealer, swapping heroin for methadone and feeding the addiction with taxpayer dollars. 
   This is disgusting and it is immoral. It does serious harm to the humanity of those people who have mustered the courage to walk into a clinic seeking help to free themselves from addiction. It is the ultimate in cruel irony that our government's first response should be to trade the shackles of heroin for the shackles of methadone. 
   The fundamental flaw of methadone treatment as a national anti-drug policy is that it is not an anti-drug policy at all. As I have said, methadone simply transfers addiction from one drug to another. To say that this is effective, because the symptoms of methadone addiction are more tolerable to society and less dramatic for the addict, is to miss the most fundamental point--that is that addiction enslaves the individual. That slavery is no less onerous to the basic humanity, to the dignity of the addict simply because the drug has been endorsed by the FDA, prescribed by a physician and paid for with taxpayer dollars. 
   After 30 years of methadone, is there nothing better to offer to the heroin addict? The answer is an emphatic yes. Drug addiction is a complicated condition. It has behavioral, social/environmental, and physical characteristics. If we are to free individuals from heroin addiction, we must adopt policies supporting programs that address, in an intensive and comprehensive way, each of these areas of concern. 
   Throughout society, in our homes, neighborhoods, communities, and in public policy fora, there has been much debate surrounding the decay of our civil society. A certain consensus has emerged regarding how best to address this crisis. That consensus centers around the need to rebuild the mediating structures of our society--family, neighborhood, church, and volunteer associations. 
   If we are to free the addict from the slavery of drug addiction--be it heroin or methadone--rebuilding or, in many cases, introducing for the first time these same mediating structures into the life of the addict must play a central role. 
   There are models for success. Just ask Rev. Sam McPherson. Rev. McPherson has spent his life tending to the needs of drug addicts. He now runs a Ready, Willing, and Able rehabilitation center on Florida Avenue here in Washington. It is an extraordinary and inspiring place.  
   Founded on a drug-free principle, Ready, Willing, and Able embraces the addict, first demanding detoxification, and then dealing in a sustained and 
   comprehensive way with the bundle of needs that contributed to the participant's drug use and addiction, and that result in recidivism if left unresolved. 
   Dr. Robert Woodson, in his recent book ``The Triumphs of Joseph'', describes the many examples of community-based organizations that have succeeded in healing the scourge of drug addiction, lifting people up from the slavery of dependency--people like Freddie and Nina Garcia, who run the Victory Fellowship, based out of San Antonio. 
   Some thirty years ago, Freddie Garcia and his wife began their operation in a tiny one-bedroom house, at one point moving all their furniture under a make-shift awning outside the house to make room for eleven recovering addicts who slept on their living room floor. Today, the Victory Fellowship has freed more than 13,000 men and women from their addictions and has spread to 65 satellite centers in California, Texas, New Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico, Columbia and Venezuela. 
   Dr. Woodson pus it this way: ``In contrast with psychiatric therapy and treatment that relies on medication, the goal of grassroots programs is not rehabilitation but transformation. Their end is not to modify behavior but to engender a change in the values and vision of the people they work with which will, in turn affect behavior ..... they do not simply curb deviant behavior but offer something more--a fulfilling life that eclipses the power of temptation.'' 
   These community-based institutions possess certain common characteristics that can serve as a model for all who seek to address the challenges of addiction: 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would like to introduce the Congressional Openess Act, a bill to make selected Congressional Research Service products, lobbyist disclosure reports and Senate gift disclosure forms available over the Internet for the American people. This bipartisan legislation is sponsored by Senators LEAHY, LOTT, ABRAHAM, ROBB, and ENZI. 
   The Congressional Research Service (CRS) has a well-known reputation for producing high-quality reports and issue briefs that are concise, factual, and unbiased--a rarity for Washington. Many of us have used these CRS products to make decisions on a wide variety of legislative proposals and issues, including Amtrak reform, the Endangered Species Act, the Line-Item veto, and U.S. policy in Zambia. Also, we routinely send these products to our constituents in order to help them understand the important issues of our time. 
   My colleagues and I believe that it is important that the public be able to use this CRS information. The American public will pay $67.1 million to fund CRS' operations for fiscal year 1999. They should be allowed to see that their money is being well-spent on material that is neither confidential nor classified.  
   Congress can also serve two important functions by allowing public access to this information. When we give the public access to these CRS products, it will mark an important milestone in opening up the federal government. Our constituents will be able to see the research documents which influence our decisions and understand the factors that we consider before a vote. This will give the public a more accurate view of the Congressional decision-making process to counter the current prevailing cynical view. 
   Also, CRS reports will serve an important role in informing the public. Members of the public will be able to read these CRS products and receive a concise, accurate summary of the issues that concern them. As elected representatives, we should do what we can to promote an informed, educated public. The educated voter is best able to make decisions and petition us to do the right things here. 
   It is important to realize that these products are already out on the Internet. ``Black market'' private vendors can charge $49 for a single report. Other web sites have outdated CRS products on them. It is not fair for the American people to have to pay a third party for out-of-date products for which they have already footed the bill. 
   Last year my colleagues on the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration proposed that Senators and Committee chairmen be allowed to post CRS products as they see fit on the Internet. I appreciate this gesture, and believe that it was a first step. Today we are proposing the commonsense next step--a centralized web site. 
   A centralized web site will make it much easier for the public to find CRS information. The public can just go to a web site and look up those products that interest them. That would be much easier than having them go through all of our web sites to find CRS reports. 
   One concern about the legislation we introduced last year was that it would not protect CRS from more public scrutiny. We would like to ensure you that we do not want to put CRS in a position that would in any way alter its current mission or open it up to liability suits. 
   Therefore, the bill provides that this centralized web site will be accessible only through Members' and Committees' web sites. This process will preserve CRS' mission by reducing its public visibility. More importantly, it will continue to allow us to inform our constituents about how we are helping them here in Washington. 
   This bill also includes other safeguards to ensure that CRS will remain protected from public interference. The Director of CRS is empowered to remove any information from these reports that he believes is confidential. He also can remove the names and phone numbers of CRS employees from these products to keep the public from distracting them from doing their jobs. We have also been informed that CRS may not have permission to release copyrighted information over the Internet. While we hope that this situation can be quickly resolved, we have included a provision in this bill to allow the Director to remove unprotected copyrighted information from these reports before they are posted. Finally, we have allowed a 30-day delay between the release of these CRS products to Members of Congress and the public. This delay allows CRS to review their products, consult with us, and revise their products to ensure that only accurate, up-to-date information is available to the public. 
   It should be pointed out that CRS has been granted none of these protections as part of the current decentralized approach. 
   This bill also requires the Senate Office of Public Records to place lobbyist disclosure forms and Senate gift disclosure forms on the Internet. We have already voted to make this information available to the public. Unfortunately, the public can only get access to this information through an office in the Hart building. These provisions will give our constituents throughout the country timely access to this information. 
   This legislation has been endorsed by many groups including the American Association of Engineering Societies, the Congressional Accountability Project, the League of Women Voters of the U.S., and the National Association of Manufacturers. 
   In conclusion, we would like to urge my colleagues to join us in supporting this legislation. The Internet offers us a unique opportunity to allow the American people to have everyday access to important information about their government. We are sure you agree that a well-informed electorate can best govern our great country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990209</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to submit legislation, cosponsored by Senators WARNER and LEVIN and other members of the Armed Services Committee, to designate May 1999 as National Military Appreciation Month. I would like to emphasize at the outset the role of the United Services Organization, the USO, in approaching me to ask that I submit this resolution. I am honored that an organization so central to the quality of the lives of our service personnel for so many decades chose me as the one to carry this legislation forward. 
   Last week, I joined with a number of my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to report to the Senate S. 4, the Soldiers', Sailors', Airmen's, and Marines' Bill of Rights of 1999. That legislation addresses areas identified by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as their highest priorities in resolving the growing readiness problems afflicting the Armed Forces. By restoring the retirement system that existed prior to 1986 and taking concrete measures to close the pay gap and remove military families from the rolls of those eligible for food stamps, I am confident that S. 4 will go a long way toward alleviating the retention and recruitment problems that have contributed so much to the recent decline in military readiness. 
   It is out of concern for the welfare of the men and women who wear the uniform of our nation's armed forces that S. 4 was passed so early in the legislative year by the Armed Services Committee. It is out of a sense of pride in those same men and women that I offer this resolution designating May as National Military Appreciation Month. 
   During May 1999, we will observe Victory in Europe Day, Military Spouse Day, Armed Forces Day, and, most importantly, Memorial Day. It is appropriate that, with our armed forces currently operating in Bosnia, Macedonia, Haiti, and the Persian Gulf, and conducting routine peacetime activities too numerous to list in support of U.S. foreign policy in virtually every part of the globe, that the nation dedicate that month to remind itself of the contribution these individuals make to the preservation of a way of life increasingly taken for granted. 
   It has become almost platitudinous to point out the increased burden placed on a smaller military since the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War. Our military forces are being sent into harm's way more often than during any period since the Vietnam War, with additional deployments contemplated as I speak. Strong economic growth and low unemployment have reduced the incentive on the part of many young people to enlist in the Armed Forces, thereby further diminishing the percentage of Americans exposed to military Service. By designating May 1999 as National Military Appreciation Month, it is my hope that the country will be more inclined to reflect on the sacrifices of so many throughout our history and today, and to better understand why we in Congress are acting so hastily to address quality of life issues affecting our service personnel and their families. My good friend, DUNCAN HUNTER, has offered companion legislation in the House of Representatives, and I look forward to speedy passage of this bill in the weeks ahead.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990208</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Troops to Teachers Improvement Act of 1999. This legislation would help provide high-quality teachers to our nation's classrooms by assisting and counseling retired military personnel who are interested in beginning a new career as a teacher. I have worked hard with my colleagues, Senators ROBB and LIEBERMAN to develop a bill which strengthens, reforms and reauthorizes the current Troops to Teachers program in a manner which effectively addresses the educational needs of our nation's students. 
   One of the most important issues facing our nation is the education of our children. Providing a solid, quality education for each and every child in our nation is a critical component in their quest for personal success and fulfillment. A solid education for our children also plays a pivotal role in the success of our nation, economically, intellectually, civically and morally. 
   Unfortunately, our current education system is failing to provide many students with the academic skills they need. The Third International Math and Science Study (TIMSS) ranked U.S. high school seniors last among 16 countries in physics and next to last in math. These disappointing results underscore the challenge we face in improving our public schools and providing our children with a competitive, world-class education. 
   A big part of that challenge will be funding, recruiting and retaining quality teachers to make America's children ready for tomorrow, particularly in the area of math and science. The Department of Education estimates that the nation's local school districts will need to hire more than two million teachers over the next decade to meet growing enrollment demands. 
   It is essential that we work together to develop and support innovative programs which help address this growing need for school teachers. Fortunately, an effective and innovative program for addressing this shortfall already exists, the Troops to Teachers program. 
   As many of my colleagues know, the Troops to Teachers program was initially created in 1993 to assist military personnel affected by defense downsizing but were interested in utilizing their knowledge, professional skills and expertise by becoming a teacher. Unfortunately, the authorization for this program is set to expire at the end of this fiscal year. 
   Senators ROBB, LIEBERMAN and I were disconcerted to learn that this successful program would soon be terminated. We joined together to develop a bipartisan bill which not only reauthorizes this program but strengthens and reforms it so that it more effectively meets the academic needs of our students and schools. 
   Our bill reforms this program so that it operates more efficiently and effectively targets the educational needs of our students. First, our bill transfers responsibility and funding for this program from the Department of Defense to the Department of Education. I and many other members of the Armed Services Committee believe that this is appropriate since it targets an educational need, rather than a military issue in our country and the Defense Department needs to use their limited resources to address a litany of problems impairing the readiness of our armed forces. 
   Another important concern we address in our bill is eligibility. Under the current program, military personnel are eligible for participation after serving only six years in the military. This eligibility policy is outdated and no longer appropriate while our military is facing a personnel retention crisis. Therefore, we have limited eligibility to military personnel who retire after at least twenty years of service, physically disabled personnel or individuals who have served a minimum of six years and can provide documentation they were affected by military downsizing. 
   Based on academic scores, particularly the TIMSS report it is evident  that a stronger emphasis needs to be placed on the academic preparation of our children in the areas of math and science. This is why we have made math, science, and special education teachers a priority for the Troops to Teachers program. 
   We also recognize the difficulties which face many of our schools, particularly those with a large proportion of at-risk students who pose a greater challenge to educators. Many schools are confronted with the difficult task of educating children who face a litany of personal obstacles, including poverty, broken homes, language barriers, learning disabilities and physical disabilities. We have attempted to help schools conquer these challenges by providing incentives for individuals who commit to teaching for a minimum of four years at a school with a large proportion of at-risk students and a significant shortage of teachers. 
   Finally, we have limited the cost of this program to the federal government by eliminating excessive, duplicative or unnecessary expenses. We have also limited administrative costs to operate this program to five percent, to ensure that federal funds being spent on this program are actually benefitting our children and education system, rather than being absorbed by Washington bureaucrats. 
   ``A teacher affects eternity; they can never tell where their influence stops.'' I share this sentiment of Henry Adams, and hope that each of my colleagues will work with us to continue providing high quality, experienced and effective teachers to our children through the Troops to Teachers program. It is important for our children, for our nation and for our future.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today along with my colleagues, Senator WYDEN, Senator SNOWE, and Senator BRYAN, to introduce the Airline Passenger Fairness Act. 
   People who travel by air are the airlines' customers. As such, they expect and deserve the same fair treatment that consumers in other areas have come to rely on. The Airline Passenger Fairness Act would ensure that passengers have the information that they need to make informed choices in their travel plans. It also seeks to encourage airlines to provide better customer service by outlining some minimum standards. 
   Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on some of the specific provisions in the bill. The Airline Passenger Fairness Act will enable an airline passenger to: 
   find out whether the flight on which that passenger is booked has been oversold; 
   use whatever portions of a ticket he or she chooses to use to get to his or her destination; 
   receive his or her checked baggage within 24 hours of a flight's arrival, unless additional delays are reasonable; 
   find out from an airline all of the fares that the airline offers, regardless of the method used to access fares; 
   receive prior notice when a scheduled flight will be delayed, if reasonable; 
   receive accurate information about the reasons why a passenger's flight has been delayed, canceled, or diverted to another airport; 
   obtain a full refund of the purchase price of a ticket if the passenger requests it within 48 hours of purchase; and 
   receive accurate information about an airline's frequent flyer program, including the number of seats that can be  redeemed on each flight, and the percentage of successful and failed frequent flyer redemptions on each flight. 
   The Department of Transportation already holds the authority to investigate airlines that have been charged with exercising ``unfair and deceptive practices,'' and ``unfair methods of competition.'' Our bill simply specifies that if passengers are denied any of the items of fair treatment that I just listed, that denial constitutes an unfair or deceptive practice on the part of the airline, or an unfair method of competition. 
   Mr. President, as I said earlier, this legislation is about helping consumers make informed choices among their air travel options. A key component of this bill is a publication requirement. Consumers will be able to review the Department of Transportation's monthly Air Travel Consumer Report to find out what airlines are denying passengers the fair treatment outlined in the bill, and on how many occasions. 
   Air travel is on the rise. As airport congestion, delays, and fares increase, so have the complaints among airline passengers. The Air Passenger Fairness Act seeks to respond to these complaints in a constructive manner by giving passengers better information on which to judge the service levels offered by the airlines. We expect to hold hearings soon on this bill in the Commerce Committee, and we welcome any input on the initiative. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990206</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that would authorize the Secretary of Defense to waive ``Buy America'' restrictions on all items procured for the Department of Defense. 
   I have spoken of this issue before in this Chamber and the potential impact of our ``Buy America'' policy on bilateral trade relations with our allies. From a philosophical point of view, I oppose this type of protectionist trade policy, not only because I believe free trade is an important means of improving relations among all nations and a key to major U.S. economic growth, but also because I believe we must reform these practices in order to make our limited defense dollars go further so as to reverse the downward trend in our military readiness. 
   Mr. President, this is a simple and straightforward bill that promotes U.S. products, not by imposing restrictive barriers on open competition and free trade, but by reinforcing sound and beneficial economic principles. 
   This bill gives the Secretary of Defense the authority to waive restrictions on the procurement of all items with respect to a foreign country if the Secretary of Defense determines they would impede cooperative programs entered into between a foreign country and the Department of Defense. Additionally, it would waive protectionist practices if it is determined that such practices would impede the reciprocal procurement of items in that foreign country, and that foreign country does not discriminate against items produced in the U.S. to a greater degree than the U.S. discriminates against items produced in that country. 
   For example, the Secretary of Defense may waive ``Buy America'' restrictions for contracts and subcontracts for items because of unreasonable delays or costs to the U.S. government in equipping servicemembers with U.S. products; insufficient quantity or unsatisfactory quality of U.S. products; and absence of competition in the U.S., resulting in a monopoly or a sole source contract, and thus, a higher price for the Department of Defense and ultimately the taxpayer. 
   Let me be clear, I am not against U.S. procurement of American products. The United States, without a doubt, produces the very best products in the world. In fact, a recent Department of State study reported that U.S. defense companies sold more weapons and defense products and claimed a larger share of the world market than was previously realized. This new study shows U.S. exports of defense products increased to nearly $25 billion in 1996, comprising nearly 60 percent of global exports. This number continues to rise steadily. 
   From a practical standpoint, adherence to ``Buy America'' restrictions seriously impairs our ability to compete freely in international markets for the best price on needed military equipment and could also result in a loss of existing business from longstanding international trading partners. While I fully understand the arguments made by some that the ``Buy America'' restrictions help maintain certain critical industrial base capabilities, I find no reason to support domestic source restrictions for products that are widely available from many U.S. companies (e.g., pumps produced by at least 25 U.S. companies). I believe that competition and open markets among our allies on a reciprocal basis would provide the best equipment at the best prices for taxpayers and U.S. and allied militaries alike. 
   In recent meetings, the Ambassadors and other senior representatives of the United Kingdom, Sweden, Netherlands, Australia and Israel have apprised me of similar situations in their countries. In every meeting, they tell me how difficult it is becoming to persuade their governments to buy American defense products, because of our protectionist policies and the growing ``Buy European'' sentiment. 
   Mr. President, we have heard over the last four months of the dire situation of our military forces. We have heard testimony of decreasing readiness, modernization programs that are decades behind schedule, and quality of life deficiencies that are so great we cannot retain, much less recruit, the personnel we need. As a result, there has been a recent groundswell of support in Congress for the Armed Forces, including a number of pay and retirement initiatives and the promise of a significant increase in defense spending. 
   All of these proposals are excellent starting points to help re-forge our military, but we must not forget that much of them will be in vain if the Department of Defense is obligated to maintain wasteful, protectionist trade policies. When we actually look for the dollars to pay for these initiatives, it would be unconscionable not to examine the potential for savings from modifying the ``Buy America'' program. Secretary Cohen and the Joint Chiefs of Staff have stated repeatedly that they want more flexibility to reform the military's archaic acquisition practices. We cannot sit idly by and throw money at the problem, without considering this partial solution regarding ``Buy America.'' 
   Mr. President, the Congress can continue to protect U.S. industry from foreign competition for selfish, special interest reasons, or we can loosen these restrictions to provide the necessary funds to ensure our military can fight and win future wars. Every dollar we spend on archaic procurement policies, like ``Buy America,'' is a dollar we cannot spend on training our troops, keeping personnel quality of life at an appropriate level, maintaining force structure, replacing old weapons systems, and advancing our military technology. 
   Mr. President, it is my sincere hope that this legislation will end once and for all the anti-competitive, anti-free trade practices that encumber our government, the military, and U.S. industry. I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this critical bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today, along with my distinguished colleague, Senator INOUYE, to propose the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act Amendments of 1999. The good Senator and I have sponsored this bill for the past four years because of our continuing belief that we must strengthen the Indian gaming law and protect the authority of tribal governments to engage in gaming activities. 
   Senator INOUYE and I have sat through hundreds of hours of discussions with Indian tribes, the States and interested parties over the expansion of Indian gaming. While the interest grows stronger in amending IGRA, a proposal has not been endorsed by either the Tribes or the States. Our intention in forwarding this bill is to once again set forth a balanced and fair discussion over necessary changes to the Indian gaming law. 
   The bill we are introducing today will provide for minimum federal standards in the regulation and licensing of class II and III gaming as well as all of the contractors, suppliers, and industries associated with such gaming. This will be accomplished through the Federal Indian Gaming Regulatory Commission which will be funded through assessments on Indian gaming revenues and fees imposed on license applicants. 
   In addition, this bill is consistent with the 1987 decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of California v. Cabazon Band of Mission Indians in that it neither expands or further restricts the scope of Indian gaming. The laws of each State would continue to be the basis for determining what gaming activities may be available to an Indian tribe located in that State. 
   Under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, Indian tribes are required to expend the profits from gaming activities to fund tribal government operations or programs and to promote tribal economic development. Profits may only be distributed directly to the members of an Indian tribe under a plan which has been approved by the Secretary of Interior. Virtually all of the proceeds from Indian gaming activities are used to fund the social welfare, education, and health needs of the Indian tribes. Schools, health facilities, roads, and other vital infrastructure are being built by the Indian tribes with the proceeds from Indian gaming. 
   In the years before the enactment of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act and in the years since its enactment, we have heard concerns about the possibility for organized criminal elements to penetrate Indian gaming. I believe the Act provides for a very substantial regulatory role and law enforcement role by the States and Indian tribes in class III gaming and by the Federal government in Class II gaming. The record clearly shows that in the few instances of known criminal activity in class III gaming, the Indian tribes have discovered the activity and have sought Federal assistance in law enforcement. 
   Indian gaming will continue to be scrutinized because of its increasing prominence in our nation's economy and political spectrum. I believe that any proposal to amend the Indian gaming law should respect both the rights of the Indian tribes and the States, while recognizing the benefits of well-regulated gaming to both Indian and non-Indian communities. I look forward to working with my colleagues and all affected entities on a continuing dialogue to protect the integrity of Indian gaming. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today as a cosponsor of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) authorization bill for fiscal years 2000, 2001, and 2002. As Chairman of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, I am able to work closely with NASA and to review the agency's achievements on a continual basis. I am proud of NASA's accomplishments and want to applaud its sustained dominance throughout the world as the premier leader in basic aeronautics and space research. 
   Yet leadership has a price. All one has to do is open the newspaper to learn about NASA's endless difficulties with the International Space Station, the agency's most comprehensive and complex endeavor to date. 
   This one-of-a-kind research facility bears a lifetime price tag of approximately $100 billion dollars to the American taxpayers. Although this program is a long-term investment which will bring discoveries unimaginable to scientists today, it is our duty to protect the American people from the repeated inconsistent performance of the participating foreign partners, prime contractor, and program managers. 
   During the 105th Congress, I offered an important amendment to this legislation that would impose a price cap on the development costs of the International Space Station. The language would ensure maximum program flexibility by providing NASA additional funding for Space Shuttle flights to service the Station, and by exempting specific activities when development costs are 5 percent or less of the Station's annual budget. I will again personally encourage my Congressional colleagues to enact a cost-cap measure this year to impose some semblance of fiscal restraint, however, it is up to NASA to prove that it is a responsible steward of public resources. 
   The recent political and economic uncertainty in Russia has only exacerbated the development delay of the Russian components. Congress must pledge to work with NASA to bring further accountability to the Space Station if the United States is going to continue its leadership, both financially and managerially. 
   NASA is not, and should not become a one mission agency. Congress must ensure that the Space Station does not impede progress on NASA's other important programs such as the Reusable Launch Vehicle, commonly referred to as the RLV. 
   During the past year Congress has expressed its grave concerns about the alleged illegal transfers of U.S. missile technology to China and other nondemocratic nations. Yet, neither the  transferring of licensing control from the Commerce Department back to State, nor an embargo on foreign launches will solve the underlying issues which result in American companies choosing foreign launch sites. Additional work is needed to substantially change the current environment for the domestic commercial launch industry. 
   What the community needs is cheaper access to space including less expensive vehicles, launching costs, and insurance. The X-33, a joint venture between NASA and private industry, and X-34 programs are examples of promising flight demonstrators which will lead the path to stimulating the industry. 
   Mr. President, we are at a unique juncture in the history of space discovery. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and to help restore Congressional confidence in NASA and the Nation's valuable space program. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to be a co-sponsor of the States' Rights Protection Act. This bill will ensure that the states retain the use of the settlement proceeds from the tobacco litigation settlement announced in November, 1998, as well as the prior settlements with Mississippi, Texas, Florida, and Minnesota. The bill will entitle the states to keep all of the money from the settlement, without federal recoupment of a Medicaid share. 
   I believe this is the right thing to do for several reasons. First, and foremost, the settlement was of litigation initiated and pursued by the states. The President announced in his State of the Union address that the Department of Justice will be filing an action on behalf of the United States against the tobacco companies. This is the right way for federal claims to be addressed, rather than taking this hard-fought, negotiated money from the states. 
   Second, not all of the states raised Medicaid claims in their lawsuits. The courts dismissed the Medicaid claims in other cases. Thus, in some states, the federal government is not truly entitled to share in the settlement proceeds. Allowing recoupment from some of the states, but not all of the states, will lead to disparate and unfair results. 
   Finally, federal and state governments alike share in the goal of addressing public health needs. It is not necessary that this goal only be accomplished through federally mandated programs. The states' settlement also includes funding for counter-advertising and cessation efforts. These efforts may be complemented by federal programs, but do not need to be duplicated simply to give the federal government an excuse to spend money. In addition, many states have other existing public health programs related to tobacco use or children's health on the books. The federal government does not need to attempt to duplicate those programs through federal mandates. Most importantly, I am confident that the state will spend their settlement money wisely and in the best interests of their citizens. These decisions are best reached through discussion and consensus reached at the state and local levels. 
   I regret that Congress was unwilling to accept the opportunity presented to us with the 1997 proposed settlement agreement. Comprehensive legislation would have benefited the nation by addressing kids smoking and limiting the excessive attorney's fees paid in these cases. Nevertheless, I applaud the Attorneys General for reaching settlement of their litigation and for the  public health advances they have made in the settlement agreement. They have ensured a win for every state, without years of litigation and varied results. They have ensured an end to Joe Camel on billbroads throughout the country. They have established a mechanism to police advertising. They have achieved more in this joint settlement than any one state could have achieved alone with a court verdict. 
   I thank my colleague, Senator HUTCHISON, for introducing this bill, and am pleased to join with so many other distinguished friends in sponsoring this important piece of states' rights legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990203</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am proud to cosponsor legislation with Senators THOMAS, ROBB, and KERRY to grant nondiscriminatory trade status to Mongolia. Passage of this legislation will play an important role in aiding Mongolia's transition to a democratic government and a market-oriented economy. 
   There has been a stunning political transformation in Mongolia since it broke away from Communist rule in 1990. In the past seven years, there have been two presidential elections and three parliamentary elections. All of these have been open and democratic, and have not suffered from violence or fraud. 
   The most important aspect of these elections is that they show the triumph of democracy and democratic forces. In 1996, the Mongolian Social Democratic Party (MSDP) and Mongolian National Democratic Party (MNDP) joined forces to win an unexpected victory in the parliamentary elections. By fulfilling its ``Contract with the Mongolian Voter,'' this coalition is ensuring the establishment of a political system based on our cherished democratic principles. After a few months of uncertainty, the Mongolian government is now back on track and committed to continue its reforms. I am happy to say that the International Republican Institute is continuing to play a major role in showing these political parties how to establish a stable democratic government. 
   This democratic transformation has established a firm human rights regime. The Mongolian Constitution allows freedom of speech, the press and expression. Separation of Church and state is recognized in this predominantly Buddhist nation as well as the right to worship or not worship. Full freedom of emigration is allowed, and Mongolia now is in full compliance with sections 402 and 409 of the Trade Act of 1974, also known as the Jackson-Vanik Amendment. An independent judiciary has been established to protect these rights from any future violation. 
   Mongolia is also in the middle of an economic transformation. As part of the ``Contract with the Mongolian  Voter,'' the democratic coalition of the MNDP and MSDP ran on promises to establish private property rights and encourage foreign investment. The Mongolian government is now steadily creating a market economy. A program has been set up to allow residents of government-owned high rise apartments to acquire ownership of their residence. In 1997, Mongolia joined the international trading system by joining the World Trade Organization and eliminating all tariffs, except on personal automobiles, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. On January 1, 1999, the state-run press became privatized. The economic news also continues to be good. The 1997 GDP growth was 3.3%, and the inflation rate has dropped from 53.2% in 1996 to 9.2% in June, 1998. The Mongolian government is now boldly moving to set the nation on a course to privatize large-scale enterprise and reform the state pension system. 
   When I was in Mongolia in 1997, I saw the effects of this economic transformation firsthand. At a town hall meeting in Kharakhorum, the ancient capital of the Mongol Empire, I met a herdsman and asked him about the economic liberalization. First, I asked him how many sheep he had under Communism. He said none, because the Communists didn't allow private property. Then I asked him how many sheep he owned after privatization. He answered that he had three sheep then, which is not much in a country with 25 million sheep. So I asked him how many sheep he has now. He answered that he now has 90 goats, 60 sheep, 20 cows and 6 horses. I asked him if that was considered successful. He replied that he was successful as were many herdsmen in this new economy. He then told me that he would never want to change the system back to what it was, because ``now Mongols have control over their own life and destiny.'' That is the new culture of a market Mongolian economy. 
   There are many benefits to supporting Mongolian democracy and economic liberalization. In 1991, Secretary of State James Baker promised Mongolia that the United States would be Mongolia's ``third neighbor.'' We remain committed to that course of action to encourage Mongolia in its endeavors and promote it as an example of how nations can successfully convert from a Communist totalitarian state to a market democracy. The democratic Mongolia has already begun to promote peace and stability among its neighbors by becoming the world's first national nuclear-free zone. Furthermore, the United States will be able to count on the liberalized Mongolian economy as an important market for American goods and services. 
   I hope that my colleagues here in the Senate will join me in passing this legislation to grant nondiscriminatory trade status to Mongolia to help it continue its successful democratic transformation and transition to a market economy. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I, along with Senator THURMOND, and others are proud to sponsor this bill to allow members of the Uniformed Services, who are away on extended active duty, to qualify for the same tax relief on the profit generated when they sell their main residence as other Americans.  
   This bill will not create a new tax benefit; it merely modifies current law to include the time members of the Uniformed Services are away from home on active duty when calculating the number of years the homeowners has lived in their primary residence. In short, this bill is narrowly tailored to remedy a specific dilemma. 
   The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 delivered sweeping tax relief to millions of Americans through a wide variety of important tax changes that affect individuals, families, investors and businesses. It was also one of the most complex tax laws enacted in recent history. 
   Mr. President, as with any complex legislation, there are winners and losers. But in this instance, there are unintended losers: members of the Uniformed Services. 
   The 1997 act gives taxpayers who sell their principal residence a much-needed tax break. Prior to the 1997 act, taxpayers received a one-time exclusion on the profit they made when they sold their principal residence, but the taxpayer had to be at least 55 years old and live in the residence for 2 of the 5 years preceding the sale. This provision primarily benefitted elderly taxpayers, while not providing any relief to younger taxpayers and their families. 
   Fortunately, the 1997 act addressed this issue. Under this law, taxpayers who sell their principal residence on or after May 7, 1997, are not taxed on the first $250,000 of profit from the sale, joint filers are not taxed on the first $500,000 of profit they make from selling their principal residence. The taxpayer must meet two requirements to qualify for this tax relief. The taxpayer must (1) own the home for at least 2 of the 5 years preceding the sale, and (2) live in the home as their main home for at least 2 years of the last 5 years. 
   Mr. President, I applaud the bipartisan cooperation that resulted in this much-needed form of tax relief. The home sales provision sounds great, and it is. Unfortunately, the second part of this eligibility test unintentionally and unfairly prohibits many of our women and men in the armed forces from qualifying for this beneficial tax relief. 
   Constant travel across the United States and abroad is inherent in the Uniformed Services. Nonetheless, some members of the Uniformed Services choose to purchase a home in a certain locale, even though they will not live there much of the time. Under the new law, if a serviceman does not have a spouse who resides in the house during his absence or the spouse is also in the military and also must travel, that service member will not qualify for the full benefit of the new home sales provision, because no one ``lives'' in the home for the required period of time. The law is prejudiced against dual-military couples who are often away on active duty. They would not qualify for the home sales exclusion because neither spouse ``live'' in the house for enough time to qualify for the exclusion. 
   This bill simply remedies an inequality in the 1997 law. The bill amends the Internal Revenue Code so that members of the Uniformed Services will be considered to be using their house as their main residence for any period that they are away on extended active duty. In short, members of the Uniformed Service will be deemed to be using their house as their main home, even if they are stationed in Bosnia, the Persian Gulf, in the ``no man's land,'' commonly called the DMZ between North and South Korea, or anywhere else on active duty orders. 
   In 1998 alone, the United States had approximately 37,000 men and women deployed to the Persian Gulf region, preparing to go into combat, if so ordered. There were also 8,000 American troops deployed in Bosnia, and another 70,000 U.S. military personnel deployed in support of other commitments worldwide. That is a total of 108,000 women and men deployed outside of the United States, away from their primary home, protecting and furthering the freedoms we Americans hold so dear. 
   We are in a period of robust growth. Many Americans are reaping the benefits of our country's growth by investing in the stock market. Many of our nation's recent millionaires became millionaires through the stock market. However, many middle- and lower-income Americans do not hold vast amounts of stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and the like. Therefore, how does the average American participate in our nation's robust growth? Through home ownership. 
   Appreciation in the value of a home because of our country's overall economic growth allows everyday Americans to participate in our country's prosperity. Fortunately, the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 recognized this and provided this break to lessen the amount of tax most Americans will pay on the profit they make when they sell their homes. 
   The 1997 home sale provision unintentionally discourages home ownership among members of the Uniformed Services, which is bad fiscal policy. Home ownership has numerous benefits for communities and individual homeowners. Having a fixed home provides Americans with a sense of community and adds stability to our nation's neighborhoods. Home ownership also generates valuable property taxes for our nation's communities. 
   We also cannot afford to discourage military service by penalizing military personnel with higher taxes merely because they are doing their job. Military service entails sacrifice, such as long periods of time away from friends and family and the constant threat of mobilization into hostile territory. We must not use the tax code to heap additional burdens upon our women and men in uniform. 
   In my view, the way to decrease the likelihood of further inequalities in the tax code, intentional or otherwise, is to adopt a fairer, flatter tax system that is far less complicated than our current system. But, in the meantime, we must insure that the Tax Code is as fair and equitable as possible. 
   The Taxpayers' Relief Act of 1997 was designed to provide sweeping tax relief to all Americans, including our women and men in uniform. Yes, it is true that there are winners and losers in any tax code, but, this inequity was unintended, Enacting this narrowly tailored remedy to grant equal tax relief to the members of our Uniformed Services restores fairness and consistency to our increasingly complex Tax Code. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to offer legislation to authorize the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of Columbia to honor all disabled American veterans. This legislation is not controversial, costs nothing, and deserves prompt consideration and passage during the first session of the 106th Congress. 
   As a nation, we owe a debt of gratitude to all Americans who have worn their country's uniform in the defense of her core ideals and interests. We honor their service with holidays, like Veterans Day and Memorial Day, and with memorials, including the Vietnam Wall and the Iwo Jima Memorial. But nowhere in Washington can be found a material tribute to those veterans whose physical or psychological well-being was forever lost to a sniper's bullet, a landmine, a mortar round, or the pure terror of modern warfare. 
   To these individuals, we owe a measure of devotion beyond that accorded those who served honorably but without permanent damage to limb or spirit. For these individuals, a memorial in Washington, D.C. would stand as testament to the sum of their sacrifices, and as proof that the country they served values their contribution to its cause. 
   We cannot restore the health of those Americans who incurred a disability as a result of their military service. It is within our power, however, to authorize a memorial that would clearly signal the nation's gratitude to all whose disabilities serve as a living reminder of the toll war takes on its victims. 
   Under the terms of this legislation, the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation would be solely responsible for raising the necessary funding. Our bill explicitly requires that no Federal funds be used to pay any expense for the memorial's establishment. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me and Senators COVERDELL, CLELAND, and KERREY in support of this legislation. America's disabled veterans, of whom Senator CLELAND himself is one of our most distinguished, deserve a lasting tribute to their sacrifice. They honored us with their service; let us honor them with our support today. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation to assist homeless veterans and eliminate some of the suffering of these less fortunate Americans who served their country in uniform. This legislation would develop better methods for identifying veterans who utilize federally funded homeless shelters so that they can be educated about veteran benefits to which they are entitled, including Department of Veterans Affairs health care. 
   A homeless shelter which receives federal funding would be required to inquire if a person entering the shelter is a veteran. This information would be used solely to assist in tracking the number of homeless veterans and providing counseling to the veteran regarding all available benefits, including job search, veterans preference rights, and medical benefits. Additionally, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development would coordinate these activities and specify a schedule for notifying the Department of Veterans Affairs of the status of these homeless veterans. It is the intent of this legislation to require homeless shelters to follow this procedure if they are to be eligible for additional Federal grants. 
   It goes without saying that this country owes a great deal to the men and women who bore arms to keep America free. Today there is no easy way to ensure that veterans who are homeless have access to the benefits they have earned. We do not even know how many of our veterans are homeless. I find this astonishing. The Department of Veterans Affairs estimates the number of homeless veterans to be between 275,000 and 500,000 over the course of a year. Conservatively, one out of every three individuals who is sleeping in a doorway, alley, or box in our cities and rural communities has worn a uniform and served our country. Mr. President, the time is right, right now, to give a helping hand. 
   Based on the figures the Department of Veterans Affairs does have, homeless veterans are mostly male; about three percent are women. The vast majority are single; most come from poor, disadvantaged communities; forty percent suffer from mental illness; and half have substance abuse problems. More than seventy-five percent served our country for at least four years, and Vietnam veterans account for more than forty percent of the total number estimated. 
   Mr. President, there are many complex factors affecting all homelessness: extreme shortage of affordable housing, poverty, high unemployment in big cities, and disability. A large number of displaced and at-risk veterans live with the lingering effects of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance abuse, compounded by a lack of family and social support networks. 
   I do not mean to be critical of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in offering this legislation. To a great degree, the Department of Veterans Affairs has been very responsive in taking care of some homeless veterans. But the ones who are receiving critical medical treatment and veterans benefits are those who know that such programs exist. It is incumbent on our government to reach out to all veterans, particularly those who are homeless. However, to do that, there must be a process in place. 
   Homeless veterans need a coordinated effort, between the Secretaries of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, that provides secure housing and nutritional meals, essential physical health care, substance abuse aftercare, and mental health counseling. They may need job assessment, training, and placement assistance. To those who may argue that this is a new entitlement program, I would say that these rights and benefits currently exist for veterans today. Why would we as a nation not do everything in our power to provide this help for those less fortunate veterans? 
   Mr. President, our veterans deserve no less. I hope my colleagues will support this legislation and support our veterans. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990126</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to cosponsor this bill, with Senator COVERDELL and others, to provide a 2-month extension to file federal taxes for U.S. military personnel who are on duty abroad. 
   Current Treasury regulations allow military personnel to file federal tax forms on June 15 rather than April 15. However, filers who elect to use this exception are still subject to interest and penalties during that two-month grace period. 
   This legislation codifies the existing Treasury regulations and adds a waiver of the interest and penalties that could be charged during the two-month grace period against military personnel who elect to take the filing exception. 
   Military personnel, serving their country overseas are often isolated from the resources necessary to prepare their tax returns. The Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury recognized this reality and provided our nation's military personnel with a much-needed two-month grace period to file their taxes. 
   However, it is inconsistent to grant a grace period for filers, but to penalize those who take it. These brave men and women have not committed any wrongdoing; all they are doing is serving their country. 
   Travel to remote regions is inherent to military service. In 1998 alone, the United States had approximately 37,000 men and women deployed to the Persian Gulf region, preparing to go into combat, if so ordered. There were also 8,000 American troops deployed in Bosnia, and another 70,000 U.S. military personnel deployed in support of other commitments worldwide. That is a total of 108,000 women and men deployed outside of the United States, away from their primary home, protecting and furthering the freedoms we Americans hold so dear. 
   We cannot afford to discourage military service by penalizing military personnel with interest and penalties merely because the unique characteristics of their job makes it difficult to file their taxes on time. Military service entails sacrifice, such as long periods of time away from friends and family and the constant threat of mobilization into hostile territory. We must not use the tax code to heap additional burdens upon our women and men in uniform. 
   This measure will restore equity and consistency to this tax provision, and, at the same time, provide a small measure of tax relief to our men and women in the military. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me and my other cosponsors to support this much-needed measure.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990125</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, over the past several years some satellite TV companies routinely broke the law by selling customers distant network stations when they weren't authorized to. 
   These customers bought the service in good faith. For many, especially those in rural areas, these distant network stations are the only source of decent network TV reception. For others, they provide a window on life in a distant city. 
   Despite the fact that these satellite TV customers had no intention of breaking the law, and despite the fact that many welcome the added diversity these distant network stations provide, and despite the fact that the law prevents satellite TV companies from transmitting local network stations, many of these customers--perhaps as many as two million of them--are within weeks of losing their distant network stations, thanks to a court order secured by local TV stations, and TV network broadcasters. And the way the law is written, there's not much the FCC or anybody else can do to stop it--unless we change the law. 
   Mr. President, that's what I propose to do. Today, with the cosponsorship of Senator CONRAD BURNS, I am introducing the Satellite Television Act of 1999. Together with legislation introduced earlier this week by myself and Senators HATCH, LEAHY, DEWINE, KOHL,  and LOTT, this legislation will settle, in a fair and rational way, the ongoing dispute between broadcasters and satellite TV companies about how and when satellite TV customers can receive local and distant network TV stations. 
   It should come as no surprise that telecommunications law, like the notoriously failed 1996 Telecommunications Act, often seems to work against the interests of the average consumer: the plain but sorry fact is that the interests of big telecommunications companies, not average Americans, are the ones that the laws are really drafted to serve. And why is that? because these companies often successfully argue that serving their interests is serving the consumer's interests. 
   That just doesn't wash in this case, however. For example, how can anybody argue with a straight face that it's really serves the consumer's interests to keep satellite TV companies from carrying local stations? Or to allow broadcasters to force satellite TV companies to drop all their distant network stations--even if local broadcasters aren't suffering any meaningful loss of audience or revenue as a result, and if the local market doesn't even have a station that broadcasts the same network shows? 
   This legislation will change the law and avoid these unfair results. It would allow satellite TV companies to carry local signals, and to continue carrying distant network stations in three situations: when a local network affiliate doesn't exist, when a local affiliate can't be received off-air, or when carriage of the distant signals will not cause local stations any significant loss of revenue. The FCC would be ordered to determine, on an expedited, bipartisan basis, those situations in which the lack of adverse impact would justify continued carriage of distant network stations, and whether any program blackout rules should be applied to their carriage. In the interim, satellite TV subscribers located at a greater distance from the local stations would be permitted to continue carrying the distant network stations they currently offer. Those located close to the core of the local station's market, however, would be subject to having their distant network stations withdrawn by the broadcasters' enforcement of their outstanding judgment. This will appropriately punish the satellite TV companies that most likely deliberately broke the law, and these consumers are highly likely to receive full network service from local network station affiliates. 
   Mr. President, this bill attempts to strike a fair compromise between the warring corporate interests of the satellite TV and broadcast TV interests, so that we can, at least this time, avoid having consumers bear the consequences of bad law and corporate selfishness. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990125</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am introducing the Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act in the 106th Congress. This legislation would establish a series of practical reforms to reduce interstate restraints of trade in the industry; protect boxers from exploitative business practices; reduce arbitrary practices by sanctioning organizations; and increase financial disclosure requirements to prevent misconduct by promoters and sanctioning bodies. The legislation I am introducing today is the same version of the Ali Act that was reported out of the Senate Commerce Committee and passed by the Senate last year. 
   I am pleased to again have the cosponsorship and sound counsel of my colleague from Nevada, Senator RICHARD BRYAN. He has a strong interest and long record of promoting responsible oversight of the professional boxing industry. Boxing is of course a major industry in Nevada, and Senator BRYAN has worked closely with his State's athletic commission to assess and propose effective measure to make boxing a more respected and healthy industry. 
   I have attached a summary of the Ali Act to concisely describe its major provisions. The bill is a modest and practical proposal which would simply curb some of the most egregious and anti-competitive practices which have exploited athletes and undermined the integrity of the boxing industry. Senator BRYAN and I worked with state commissioners and credible boxing industry leaders from across the U.S. to develop the Ali Act. It requires no public funding and would create no new bureaucracy at any level of government. This legislation instead requires adherence to fair business practices and public disclosure requirements designed to significantly reduce abusive practices in the sport. 
   It is worth noting that the public response to the Ali Act has been tremendous. We have received strong praise for this legislation from every sector of the industry and, most importantly, from boxers themselves. It is to be expected that certain vested interests in professional boxing industry will not welcome any reforms of anti-competitive and confiscatory business practices in the sport. However, the Ali Act will clearly improve the sport in the public interest, and will not inhibit any legitimate business practices. If enacted, the professional boxing industry will not only be free of certain types of abusive and unethical business practices, but competition should surely increase. Competition is the heart of any sport, and fair, open competition is the key to a sport's success. I look forward to the day when boxing achieves the reputation of credible competition and fair business practices for its athletes. 
   I will work with members of the Senate Commerce Committee to promptly bring the Ali Act before the full Senate this year. With the Ali Act also being introduced in the House of Representatives in the near future, I am hopeful that 1999 will be the year the professional boxing industry in America embarks on a new path of fair business practices, legitimate rankings, and enhanced integrity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990122</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce legislation that will establish the Director of the Indian Health Service within the Department of Health and Human Services as an Assistant Secretary for Indian Health. My colleagues, Senators INOUYE and CONRAD, are joining me in this effort as original co-sponsors. I am pleased to note that Congressman NETHERCUTT from Washington introduced companion legislation on the House side. 
   Last year, we came very close to successful passage of this same bill, but the legislative clock expired. It is our hope that we can move this legislation forward expeditiously this year as this bill enjoys widespread support from Indian tribes nationwide and the Administration. 
   The history of this legislation spans back several years. Every year, the Congress deliberates on how best to raise the standard of health care for all Americans. Yet, in nearly every debate, the health care needs of Indian people are either marginalized or ignored. The need for this legislation arose out of the continuing frustration expressed by the tribes that their health concerns were not adequately addressed under the existing administrative policy and budgetary processes. 
   As the primary health care delivery system, the Indian Health Service is the principal advocate for Indian health care needs, both on the reservation level and for urban populations. More than 1.3 million Indian people are served every year by the IHS. At its current capacity, the IHS estimates that it can only meet 62 percent of tribal health care needs. The IHS will continue to be challenged by a growing Indian population as well as an increasing disparity between the health status of Indian people as compared to other Americans. Thousands of Indian people continue to suffer from the worst imaginable health care conditions in Indian country--from diabetes to cancer to infant mortality. In nearly every category, the health status of Native Americans falls far below the national standard. 
   The purpose of this bill can be simplified to three primary needs. Indian people desire a stronger leadership and policy role within the primary health care agency, the Department of Health and Human Services. The Assistant Secretary for Indian Health will ensure that critical policy and budgetary decisions will be made with the full involvement and consultation of not only the Indian Health Service, but also the direct involvement of the Tribal governments. 
   Second, the enactment of this legislation is consistent with the unique government-to-government relationship between federally recognized Indian tribes and the federal government. This legislation is long overdue in bringing focus and national attention to the health care status of Indian people and fulfilling the federal trust responsibility toward Indian tribes. 
   Finally, passage of this legislation is critical as the Congress is set to deliberate several pieces of Indian health policy. Reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act and development of legislation to permanently extend tribal self-governance authority to tribes will be vital components of Indian health care in the future. Implementation of this bill is intended to support the long-standing policies of Indian self-determination and tribal self-governance and assist Indian tribes who are making positive strides in providing direct health care to their own communities. 
   At this critical time, the IHS is in dire need of a senior policy official who is knowledgeable about the programs administered by the IHS and who can provide the leadership for the health care needs of American Indians and Alaska Natives. We continue to pursue passage of this legislation as many believe that the priority of Indian health issues within the Department should be raised to the highest levels within our federal government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to cosponsor The Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 1999 with Senators COVERDELL and Senator TORRICELLI. This bill would deliver sweeping tax relief to lower- and middle-income taxpayers. The bill incrementally increases the number of individuals who pay the lowest tax rate, which is 15%. If this bill had been law in 1998, approximately millions of taxpayers now in the 28% tax-bracket would have paid taxes at the 15% rate. In addition, this bill significantly lessens the effect of one of the Tax Code's most inequitable provisions: the Marriage Penalty. 
    Mr. President, before I proceed, I want to congratulate Senator COVERDELL for his leadership and his tireless work in crafting this historic legislation. This bill recognizes the need to maintain the momentum toward fundamental tax reform evidenced by the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 
   This bill is the only major tax relief proposal focused directly on addressing the middle-class tax squeeze. According to preliminary estimates by the Tax Foundation, 29 million taxpayers would benefit from this broad-based, middle-class tax relief in 1998 alone. 
    Mr. President, I support this legislation because: First, it is a step toward further reform; second, it helps ordinary middle-class families who are struggling to make ends meet without asking the government to help out, and third, it promotes future economic prosperity by increasing the amount of money taxpayers have available for their own savings and investment. 
   It is essential that we provide American families with relief from the excessive rate of taxation that saps job growth and robs them of the opportunity to provide for their needs and save for the future. Over a five-year period, this bill would deliver sweeping tax relief to middle-class taxpayers by increasing the number of individuals who pay the lowest tax rate. In addition, this bill is simple, and it calculates tax relief based upon income alone, not on factors such as the number of school-age children. 
   This bill benefits our citizens in several ways. It focuses tax relief on the individuals who feel the tax squeeze the most: lower- and middle-income taxpayers. Under this bill, unmarried individuals will be able to make $35,000 and married individuals can make $70,000, and still be in the lowest tax bracket. 
   This measure also results in taxpayers being able to keep more of the money they earn. This extra income will allow individuals to save and invest more. Increased savings and investment are key to sustaining our current economic growth. 
   In sum, the measure is a win for individuals, and a win for America as a whole. Millions of Americans would realize some tax savings from this legislation. Citizens will be able to keep more of what they earn, which will ensure that Americans have more of the resources they need to invest in their own individual futures, and America's future. 
   Mr. President, on a broader scale, I believe we should abandon our existing tax code altogether and create a new system. This new system should have one tax rate, which taxes income only one time. This system should also reduce the time to prepare tax returns from days to minutes, and the expense to prepare tax returns from thousands of dollars to pennies. 
   The 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act was a step in the right direction to provide tax relief to lower- and middle-income  families. The Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 1999 represents an important further step toward a flatter, fairer tax system, which also provides immediate tax relief for hard-working Americans and families. 
    Mr. President, on behalf of the millions of Americans in need of relief from over-taxation, I urge my colleagues to support this important measure. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Middle-Income Savings and Investment Act of 1999. This bill is designed to encourage lower- and middle-income Americans to save and invest more of their hard-earned dollars, by allowing taxpayers to earn $200 ($400 for joint filers) of interest and dividend income tax-free. This bill also lessens the impact of one of the most nefarious aspects of our current tax code--double taxation. 
   Mr. President, this legislation is important. Consumers can do three things with their income: spend it, pay taxes, or save it. Unfortunately, Americans are not doing enough of the latter. 
   America's personal savings rate is at an all-time low. Furthermore, the U.S. national savings rate ranks among the lowest of the G-7 countries. According to the Department of Commerce, in September 1998, the personal savings rate was 0%. In other words, we saved nothing. In October 1998, things got worse and our personal savings rate fell to -2%. Americans spent more that month than they earned. 
   Other countries have high tax rates, but their citizens still manage to save more of their hard-earned dollars than most Americans. Economists say that this is because many other countries provide a tax incentive for small savers by exempting some portion or all of their interest or dividend income from tax. In contrast, the U.S. tax code taxes the savings twice, once when the individual earns the income, and again when the small savers earn interest or dividends generated by the savings or investments. 
   Congress can not place the blame entirely on the American consumer for our nation's record low savings rates. Our current tax code discourages savings and investment. Income is taxed first when it is earned. If the income is spent, then it is not taxed again. However, if the income is saved or invested, the returns on the savings are taxed once again. Thus, savings and investment are taxed twice. 
   The multiple layers of taxation on savings increase the cost of savings, which leads to a smaller supply of capital, and a decreased personal savings rate. A fairer tax code would not penalize savings relative to consumption. This legislation is not a cure for all of the ills of our overly complicated burdensome tax code, but it is an important step to eradicating the double taxation inherent in our antiquated tax code. 
   The Middle-Income Savings and Investment Act provides some tax relief to taxpayers by allowing individuals to earn up to $200 in interest or dividend income tax-free; a married couple could earn up to $400 in interest and dividends tax-free. $200 may not sound like much money, but it 
   represents an important first step in eliminating the bias against savings and investment. 
   This legislation would provide tax relief to the majority of Americans. However, because of the low $200 and $400 exemption levels, this legislation will particularly benefit lower- and middle-income taxpayers, and boost savings incentives among non-savers and small-savers alike. The vast majority of moderate-income savers would not be taxed on any of their interest or dividend income under this legislation. The Congressional Joint Economic Committee estimates that this type of interest and dividend exclusion would affect 57% of all taxpayers, with more than 30 million taxpayers not paying any tax on interest and dividend income. 
   It is vital that we create further incentives to encourage moderate-income Americans to save and invest more of their hard-earned dollars. Policy makers and economists have long been concerned about the adequacy of savings in the United States. These fears address both the financial well-being of individuals, and the fiscal stability of the national economy. 
   Increased savings and investment are an essential element of low- to moderate-income Americans' financial well-being. Savings impact taxpayers' ability to save for emergencies, education, home buying and most importantly, for retirement. 
   Consumer spending is powering the United States economy at a brisk rate of growth, even as we struggle with diminished export sales and slumping economies in Asia, Russia, and Latin America. However, as demonstrated by the low levels of personal savings in September and October of 1998, we are raiding our savings to purchase homes, consumer goods, and other products. Consumers cannot raid their wealth forever. 
   The recent devaluation of the Brazilian currency and other geopolitical instability could result in a potential economic downturn in the United States. In the event this does happen, increased personal savings will give Americans a financial cushion to weather any potential downturn. 
   Retirement looms around the corner for many baby boomers. While I am confident Congress will ensure that the Social Security trust funds will be solvent when the baby boomers retire, Social Security alone may not be sufficient to maintain the boomers' current standard of living. Personal savings must make up this gap. Since personal savings are at an all-time low, it is unlikely that a substantial number of baby boomers will have sufficient personal savings to supplement their social security benefits to make up this income gap. Tax reform which encourages savings and investment can be an important tool to ensure that retiring Americans have sufficient personal savings to maintain their current standard of living. 
   Increased personal savings and investment are also good for the nation's fiscal well-being. The money financial institutions lend or invest does not grow on trees. This capital comes from the funds everyday Americans deposit or invest in these institutions. Thus, savings are important because they are a key element of capital formation. Capital formation is necessary for economic growth and rising wages. 
   We must increase the savings rate if we wish to continue our current economic expansion. Without savings, it is impossible to build factories, purchase equipment, conduct research, or develop technology. Savings allow businesses to purchase equipment, and new equipment allows factories to be more productive, which in turn raises the income of workers and owners. 
   This link between savings rates and capital formation is not rocket science. Workers are more productive when they are working with modern equipment. More productive workers earn higher real wages. Higher real wages are the beginning of higher standards of living. But, the key is capital. American industry must have access to a readily available supply of affordable domestic capital to purchase this productivity enhancing equipment. 
   The bottom line is that capital formation is necessary for economic growth and rising wages. Further incentives for savings and investment will increase capital formation. The Middle-Class Savings and Investment Act provides a necessary incentive to get low- to moderate-income Americans to save and invest more. 
   At present, America is not suffering from its current savings dilemma. However, we must act now to increase the personal savings rate to prepare for the challenges of the next millennium. 
   Mr. President, the Congressional Budget Office estimates a budget surplus of $80 billion for fiscal year 1999. Informal estimates by the Joint Committee on Taxation indicate that this bill will only cost $15 billion over 5 years. What better way to use a small portion of the surplus than to return it to the American people in the form of much-needed middle-class tax relief. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I am proud to introduce the Marriage Penalty Elimination Act of 1999. This bill would deliver sweeping tax relief to millions of lower- and middle-income Americans by eliminating the marriage penalty. The bill is simple: it incrementally increases the standard deduction over a 5-year period, until the joint filer's standard deduction is equal to 2 times the individual filer's deduction. 
   This bill significantly lessens the effect of one of the Tax Code's most inequitable provisions, the marriage penalty. Under today's Tax Code, the marriage penalty occurs when the sum of the tax liabilities of two unmarried individuals filing their own tax returns is less than their tax liability would be under a joint return if they were married. The Marriage Penalty Elimination Act would allow a married couple to claim the same amount of the standard deduction as two individuals. It seems logical that a married couple would be eligible to take two times the standard deduction that an individual can take. This is not the case. Under current law, joint filers are only eligible to take approximately 1.67 times the standard deduction of single filers. 
   Because CBO has estimated that federal budget surpluses will total more than $700 billion over the next 10 years, there could be no better time for Congress to focus our attention on relieving the tax burden on the American people. There is no better time than now to provide relief to the taxpayers who have been overtaxed and overburdened with our antiquated tax system. 
   Mr. President, as Congress is well aware, it is essential to provide relief to the ordinary, hard-working, middle-class American families who are struggling to make ends meet. This bill focuses directly on lower- and middle-income taxpayers, because the disparity between a married couple's standard deduction and an unmarried couple's combined standard deduction is most discriminating to the lower- and middle-income level taxpayers. 
   The current standard deduction for joint returns is currently 1.67 times that of single returns for tax bracket rates of 15%, 28% and 31%. However, the disparity narrows at the 36% bracket for joint filers to 1.2 times that of individual filers. And, at the highest bracket rate of 39.6%, the standard deduction for married and unmarried couples is equal. These figures make clear the discrimination that our present Tax Code imposes on lower- and middle-income taxpayers. 
   This bill would eliminate the unjust disparity between the standard deduction afforded a married couple and an unmarried couple. It is vital to our Nation that Congress work to foster strength among American families. By enacting the Marriage Penalty Elimination Act, this Congress would not only be addressing the tax concerns of the American people, but also providing an incentive for the American family. As the Tax Code is written now, couples are punished with an undue financial burden just for being married. In effect, the marriage penalty taxes marriage, one of our most fundamental institutions. There can be no doubt that this kind of disincentive for marriage is wrong. 
   In addition to the overriding moral objection to a marriage penalty, there exists a basic question of fairness. Not only is it debilitating to our society to penalize those who enter into the sacred institution of marriage to create a family, but it is fundamentally unjust to impose a greater tax burden on two married people than on two unmarried people who live together. 
   Mr. President, on behalf of the millions of lower- and middle-income American families, I urge my colleagues to support this important bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce an important piece of legislation which would have a tremendous impact on the lives of many blind people. This bill restores the 20-year link between blind people and senior citizens in regards to the Social Security earnings limit which has helped many blind people become self-sufficient and productive. 
   When the Congress passed the Senior Citizens Freedom to Work Act in 1996, we unfortunately broke the longstanding linkage in the treatment of blind people and seniors under Social Security, which resulted in allowing the earnings limit to be raised for seniors only and did not give blind people the same opportunity to increase their earnings without penalizing their Social Security benefits. 
   My intent when I sponsored the Senior Citizens Freedom to Work Act was not to break the link between the blind people and the senior population. In 1996, time constraints and fiscal considerations forced me to focus solely on raising the unfair and burdensome earnings limit for seniors. I am happy to say that the Senior Citizens Freedom to Work Act became law in 1996, and the earnings exemption for seniors is being raised in annual increments until it reaches $30,000 in the year 2002. This law is allowing millions of seniors to continue contributing to society as productive workers. 
   Now we should work together in the spirit of fairness to ensure that this same opportunity is given to the blind population. We should provide blind people the opportunity to be productive and ``make it'' on their own. We should not continue policies which discourage these individuals from working and contributing to society. 
   The bill I am introducing today is identical to one I sponsored in the last Congress. It would reunite the earnings exemption amount for blind people with the exemption amount for senior citizens. If we do not reinstate this link, blind people will be restricted to earning $14,800 in the year 2002 in order  to protect their Social Security benefits, compared to the $30,000 which seniors will be permitted to earn. 
   There are very strong and convincing arguments in favor of reestablishing the link between these two groups and increasing the earnings limit for blind people. 
   First, the earnings test treatment of our blind and senior populations has historically been identical. Since 1977, blind people and senior citizens have shared the identical earnings exemption threshold under Title II of the Social Security Act. Now, senior citizens will be given greater opportunity to increase their earnings without losing a portion of their Social Security benefits; the blind, however, will not have the same opportunity. 
   The Social Security earnings test imposes as great a work disincentive for blind people as it does for senior citizens. In fact, the earnings test probably provides a greater aggregate disincentive for blind individuals since many blind beneficiaries are of working age (18-65) and are capable of productive work. 
   Blindness is often associated with adverse social and economic consequences. It is often tremendously difficult for blind individuals to find sustained employment or any employment at all, but they do want to work. They take great pride in being able to work and becoming productive members of society. By linking the blind with seniors in 1977, Congress provided a great deal of hope and incentive for blind people in this country to enter the work force. Now, we are taking that hope away from them by not allowing them the same opportunity to increase their earnings as senior citizens. 
   Blind people are likely to respond favorably to an increase in the earnings test by working more, which will increase their tax payments and their purchasing power and allow the blind to make a greater contribution to the general economy. In addition, encouraging the blind to work and allowing them to work more without being penalized would bring additional revenue into the Social Security trust funds as well as the Federal Treasury. In short, restoring the link between blind people and senior citizens for treatment of Social Security benefits would help many blind people become self-sufficient, productive members of society. 
   I am pleased that this Congress will be focusing on the overall structure of the Social Security system and working together for solutions which would strengthen the system for seniors of today and tomorrow without placing an unfair burden on working Americans. It is absolutely crucial that we include raising the earnings test for blind individuals as a part of any Social Security bill we enact this year. 
   I urge each of my colleagues to join me in sponsoring this important measure to restore fair and equitable treatment for our blind citizens and to give the blind community increased financial independence. Our nation would be better served if we restore equality for the blind and provide them with the same freedom, opportunities and fairness as our nation's seniors. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990121</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to repeal the increase in tax on Social Security benefits. As my colleagues know, the 1993 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act increased the taxable portion of Social Security benefits from 50% to 85% for Social Security recipients whose threshold incomes exceed $34,000 (single) and $44,000 (couples). The legislation I am introducing today simply phases out this increase gradually over a four-year period. In 1999, the applicable percentage would be 75 percent; in 2000, 65 percent: in 2001, 60 percent; in 2002, 55 percent; and finally in 2001, the taxable percentage would return to 50%. 
   I believe the increase in the taxable portion of Social Security benefits was blatantly unfair because it changed the rules in the middle of the game. Responsible senior citizens who had carefully planned for their retirement were penalized and saw their income fall while their marginal tax rate skyrocketed. Nearly 9,000 seniors representing 23.4 percent of recipients are affected by this provision. These seniors relied on and based their decisions on the old law, and they cannot now go back in time to change these decisions. 
   Clearly, we should be encouraging all Americans to save and invest for the future. We can not be sure that Social Security benefits will take care of all our retirement needs. If Congress continues to change the rules after plans and investment decisions have been made, we will diminish the incentive for Americans to prepare for the future and plan accordingly. 
   I am consistently amazed by the perverse disincentives Congress enacts. Aside being patently unfair, taxing 85% of Social Security benefits above the current income levels creates a tremendous disincentive for seniors to work. It simply does not make sense to work if every dollar you earn over the threshold drastically reduces your Social Security benefits. 
   This legislation is supported by the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, the Seniors Coalition and Sixty-Plus. 
   I am pleased that this Congress will be focusing on strengthening and restructuring our nation's Social Security system for the seniors of today and tomorrow without placing an unfair burden on American workers. As we continue working together for a solution to our nation's retirement system I will push to include this provision in any Social Security bill we enact this year. 
   Finally, I am sure many of my colleagues note that the problems with this additional tax on Social Security benefits are strikingly similar to the Social Security earnings limit. It is my strong hope that we will act expeditiously on this legislation as well as my legislation to fully repeal the unfair earnings test. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990120</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that authorizes two rounds of U.S. military installation realignment and closures to occur in 2001 and 2003. I am pleased to have Senator LEVIN and Senator ROBB as cosponsors of this bill. 
   Mr. President, we have heard over the last 4 months of the dire situation of our military forces. We have heard testimony of plunging readiness, modernization programs that are decades behind schedule, and quality of life deficiencies that are so great we cannot retain or recruit the personnel we need. As a result of this realization, there has been a groundswell of support in Congress for the Armed Forces, including a number of pay and retirement initiatives and the promise of a significant increase in defense spending. 
   All of these proposals are excellent starting points to help re-forge our military, but we must not forget that much of it will be in vain if the Department of Defense is obligated to maintain 23 percent excess capacity in infrastructure. When we actually look for the dollars to pay for these initiatives, it is unconscionable that some would not look to the billions of dollars to be saved by base realignment and closure. Secretary Cohen and the Joint Chiefs of Staff have stated repeatedly that they desire more opportunities to streamline the military's infrastructure. We cannot sit idly by and throw money and ideas at the problem when part of the solution is staring us in the face.  
   This proposed legislation offers two significant changes to present law. First, the process for the first round in 2001 is moved back two months to ensure there is no conflict of interest with a commission nominated under one administration but effectively working under the direction of the follow-on administration. Second, under this legislation, privatization in-place would be permitted only when explicitly recommended by the Commission. Additionally, the Secretary of Defense must consider local government input in preparing his list of desired base closures. 
   Total BRAC savings realized from the four previous rounds exceed total costs to date. The annual net savings for previous rounds will grow from almost $3 billion last year to $5.6-7.0 billion per year by 2001. These savings are real, they are coming sooner, and they are estimated to be greater than anticipated. 
   Mr. President, we can continue to maintain a military infrastructure that we do not need, or we can provide the necessary funds to ensure our military can fight and win future wars. Every dollar we spend on bases we do not need is a dollar we cannot spend on training our troops, keeping personnel quality of life at an appropriate level, maintaining force structure, replacing old weapons systems, and advancing our military technology. 
   We must finish the job we started by authorizing these two final rounds of base realignment and closure. I urge my colleagues to join us in support of this critical bill and to work diligently throughout the year to put aside local politics for what is clearly in the best interest of our military forces. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today, I am pleased to sponsor three bills designed to improve the way Congress spends Americans' hard-earned dollars. 
   First, Senator DOMENICI and I and others are co-sponsoring legislation requiring Congress to adopt a biennial budget process. Second, Senator KYL and I are introducing a resolution to establish a 60-vote point of order against any item in any appropriations measure that provides more than $1 million for any program, project, or activity which is not specifically authorized in a law other than an appropriations act. Third, Senator KYL and I are  introducing a resolution to establish a privileged, non-debatable motion to proceed to any appropriations measure after June 30 of any year. 
   As anyone who has followed Congress over the years knows, budget process reform is not new. It is often the subject of heated political debate. It has spawned numerous vigorous floor debates and been the subject of much controversy. Unfortunately, little in the way of substantive reform has ever been accomplished. Surely, after our experience with the fiscal year 1999 budget process, most in Congress would agree that budget process reform is an idea whose time has finally come. The time for rhetoric has passed, and the time for overall substantive reforms is here. 
   The power of the purse is vested in the Congress. However, the obligation to control the purse does not mean Congress do so with impunity or with disregard for the greater good of the Nation. 
   Since I came to Congress, I have spent a great deal of my time considering matters related to the budget. As critical as I have been of the Congressional budget process over the past 16 years, the monstrosity of a spending bill we passed last year took my outrage to new heights. This bill clearly illustrates that our budget process is flawed. If we had adequate controls on the budget process, the fiscal year 1999 omnibus appropriations bill would never have occurred. 
   The second session of the 105th Congress convened on January 27 and adjourned on October 21, 1998--a total of 266 calendar days in which Congress completed work on only 4 of the 13 regular appropriations bills that keep the federal government open and functioning. Yet it took us just 24 hours to debate and pass a 4,000-page, 40-pound, non-amendable, budget-busting omnibus appropriations bill that provided more than half-a trillion dollars to fund 10 Cabinet-level federal departments for the fiscal year that started 21 days prior. 
   The bill exceeded the budget ceiling by $20 billion for what is euphemistically called emergency spending, much of which is really everyday, garden-variety, special interest, pork-barrel spending projects. Sadly, these projects are paid for by robbing billions from the budget surplus. This bill made a mockery of the Congress' role in fiscal matters. It was and still is a betrayal of our responsibility to spend the taxpayers' dollars wisely and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans, rather than the special interests of a few. 
   I voted against the omnibus appropriations bill, as did many of our colleagues. But the bill passed, and is now law. This bill became law because Congress was forced to either adopt this bill, or face another government shutdown. In a sense, Congress was once again held hostage by the prospect of experiencing another government shutdown. 
   Sadly, for most years, the Federal budget is passed in one fell swoop through one monster bill. Appropriations committees, charged with passing separate legislation to pay for each portion of the Government, disregard their deadlines and lump all Government spending in one mammoth bill. Failure to pass such a behemoth would result in a complete shutdown of all Government agencies and chaos among recipients of Government benefits. We have been held hostage in this manner, in the past, and will be again in the future if meaningful comprehensive budget process reforms are not adopted promptly. 
   We cannot mortgage away our future generations' prosperity by spending wastefully today. Budget process is key to maintaining fiscal responsibility. Our more than ever increasing $5 trillion national debt and the fiscal nightmare of the fiscal year 1999 omnibus appropriations bill indicate that Congress must change the way it conducts the budget process. 
   We can ill afford to permit an inadequate budget process to squander away our first budget surplus in decades. According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, our national debt is now $5.52 trillion. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that in fiscal year 1998, the federal government paid more than $244 billion in net interest, or some $668 million every day. These numbers are facts. The facts are scary--$668 million every day to pay for the interest on our national debt. The more we spend on interest, the less we have to spend for other vital goods and services. 
   This must stop. The only way to stop wasting almost a quarter of a trillion dollars a year is to pay down our national debt and ensure we do not squander this opportunity by instituting budget process reforms. 
   Our founding fathers saw the importance of avoiding debt and wasteful spending. The framers assumed that each generation would pay its own bills, and Thomas Jefferson stated:  
   I place economy among the first and most important of republican virtues, and public debt as the greatest of dangers to be feared.  
   Yet we are content to burden every child born in this century with a $5.5 trillion debt. 
   The Congressional Budget Office estimates that we will have an $80 billion surplus for fiscal year 1999. But we are not protecting the budget surplus to save social security. We are not protecting the budget surplus to pay down our debt. Nor are we spending tax dollars cautiously to insure that funds are available to allow Congress to pass broad-based middle-class tax relief. Why? Because 
   our current budget process is flawed. It is easily manipulated to appropriate funds for locality-specific parochial interests, as opposed to the national interests. Paying down the debt, saving social security, and broad-based middle-class tax relief would benefit all Americans. Yet we continue to ignore these priority needs when we approve monstrosities like the fiscal year 1999 omnibus appropriations bill. 
   The problem is the current budget process. It allows the politics of the moment to take precedence over larger long-term issues which impact the Nation as a whole. The legislation I am co-sponsoring, and the reforms I am introducing will address the ills in the current budget process. 
   First, the biennial budgeting legislation drafted by Senator DOMENICI will radically change the way Congress passes a Federal budget. This legislation will require the President to submit and the Congress to enact two-year authorization and appropriations bills. Biennial budgeting would allow us to focus attention on fiscal matters during the first full year of a Congress, then turn to other pressing matters of national policy the second year. Two-year budgets would also provide needed predictability and stability for government agencies and programs. 
   Biennial budgeting will not solve all our budget process woes, and it will not automatically solve the serious problems posed by the increased demand on entitlement programs as the next generation begins to retire. However, what a biennial budget can do is to give us time for the important tasks that often get short shrift these days, such as conducting oversight and long-range planning. The legislation that we are introducing today will ensure that time for oversight and long-range planning is set aside. 
   I am also sponsoring 3 procedural changes governing the Senate's budget process. I am introducing a resolution in the Senate to amend our procedures to establish a 60-vote point of order against any item in an appropriations measure that provides more than $1 million for any program, project, or activity which is not already specifically authorized in a law other than an appropriations act. This is the system of checks and balances that is envisioned in the law, and I believe the Senate should adhere to this necessary fiscal restraint. To do anything less makes a mockery of the authorization process. If we do not do this, and we continue to use appropriations bills to do all our authorizing business, why even have authorizing committees? 
   I am also introducing a resolution in the Senate to make a motion to proceed to any appropriations measure after June 30 a privileged motion. The Budget Act establishes June 30 as the date by which the House is expected to complete action on all the appropriations measures. By eliminating the need to debate, file cloture, and vote on a motion to proceed to appropriations measures after that date, the Senate could save a full week's time, and could instead spend that time working on the bill itself. 
   Also, I am sponsor of Senate Resolution 4, introduced on January 6, 1999,  which restores the point of order preventing Senators from attaching legislative ``riders'' to appropriations measures. 
   This measure will go a long way toward preventing gridlock over policy matters in spending bills. 
   These procedural changes would, in my view, go a long way toward restoring openness, fairness, and public input in the process of spending the taxpayers' dollars. We would be able to pass budgets in the normal process, rather than budget by brinkmanship. 
   These budget reform proposals are not a political exercise. These reforms are long-overdue and real. It is my intention to work with the leadership to move this legislation quickly. It is very important we act before the appropriations season begins in earnest. 
   To do nothing to reform our budget process is far more dangerous than to try and not succeed. Budget process reform must be adopted to insure that we do not waste the opportunity to start shaving away at our massive national debt. The system is set up to have checks and balances. Lately, we have drifted from this process. Congress must adopt meaningful budget process reform this year, or risk further fiscal monstrosities like the fiscal year 1999 omnibus appropriations bill. 
   Clearly, the process by which we spend Americans' hard-earned dollars is flawed and needs to be changed. I hope my colleagues will acknowledge the obvious, and push for comprehensive budget process reform at the earliest opportunity. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today with my Republican colleagues to introduce legislation, S. 4, to provide increased pay and retirement benefits to members of the U.S. Armed Forces and their families. As one who has long warned that declining defense budgets and increasing commitments were propelling our military towards the infamous ``hollow force'' of the 1970s, I decided last October 7th to join with my friend, Senator PAT ROBERTS, to craft legislation, S. 2563, that would restore military retirement benefits to a full 50 percent of base pay for 20-year retirees in order to encourage highly trained, experienced military personnel to remain in the service. Unfortunately, because of time constraints, Congress did not act on the bill last year.  
   Since then I have worked closely with Senator ROBERTS and the Republican Leader, Senator LOTT, to draft legislation that address the readiness concerns of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of Defense. This bill is a significant step toward addressing the pressing readiness problems afflicting our Armed Forces. The Joint Chiefs of Staff have repeatedly stated the current retirement and pay gap is their highest priority for solving the retention problem undermining the preparedness of our men and women in uniform. 
   Specifically, this legislation which is sponsored by Majority Leader LOTT, Senator ROBERTS, myself the distinguished Chairman of the Armed Services Committee and the other committee Republicans, includes a 4.8% pay raise, effective January 1, 2000, pay table reform, restored military retirement benefits to the pre-1986 level of 50 percent, Thrift Savings Plan proposals, and a Special Subsistence Allowance to help the neediest families in the Armed Forces, many of whom now require federal food stamp assistance. 
   Mr. President, the Republican Leader has agreed to make this legislation a priority for the 106th Congress and we fully expect to pass this legislative proposal by Memorial Day. If Congress approves this bill by the end of May, then 3,000 military families will be paid enough to get them off food stamps at the beginning of next year. It is unconscionable that the men and women who are willing to sacrifice their lives for their country have to rely on food stamps to make ends meet. The Pentagon estimates that approximately 11,900 military households currently receive food stamps. This bill will help nearly 10,000 of these military families get off of food stamps over the next 5 years by ensuring their income is sufficient to provide for their spouses and children. 
   Mr. President, it is critical that we address the concerns of the senior military leadership who have cited better military pay and retirement benefits as their highest priority. We failed to do so last year. We must move this bill through Congress quickly this year to slow the exodus of our pilots, military policemen, Naval special operations personnel, surface warfare officers and other critical military specialties that have caused the deterioration in our Armed Forces readiness that we have heard detailed in testimony over the last four months. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-1-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the National Parks Overflights Act. This legislation intends to promote air safety and protect natural quiet in our national parks by providing a process for developing air tour management plans (ATMP) at those parks. An ATMP at a national park would manage commercial air tour flights over and around that park, and over any Native American lands within or adjacent to the park. 
   I would like to remind my colleagues that this is the same legislation that was approved overwhelmingly by the Senate last September, as part of the Wendell H. Ford National Air Transportation System Improvement Act, or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill. Today I reintroduced the FAA reauthorization bill that was approved by the Senate last year. Title VI of the bill deals with national parks overflights. 
   Mr. President, the National Parks Overflights Act was developed at the recommendation of the National Parks Overflights Working Group. The working group was established to develop a plan for instituting flight restrictions over national parks because of the noise and environmental consequences associated with commercial air tours of the parks. Environmentalists, as well as general aviation and air tour industry representatives, constituted the membership of the working group. The group recommended a consensus proposal on overflights, which is embodied in the National Parks Overflights Act. 
   Visitors to our national parks, whether by air or through the entrance gate, deserve a safe and quality visitor experience. The number of air tour flights across the country is on the rise. As additional aircraft operate in concentrated airspace, the risk of an accident increases. We have a responsibility to manage park airspace to provide for the safe and orderly flow of traffic. 
   ``Natural quiet,'' or the ambient sounds of the environment without the intrusion of manmade noise, is a highly valued resource for visitors to our national parks. As commercial air tour flights increase, their noise also increases, which can impair the opportunity for park visitors on the ground to enjoy the natural quiet that they seek and deserve. 
   The National Parks Overflights Act seeks to promote both safety and natural quiet by providing a fair and balanced process for the development of Air Tour Management Plans at individual parks. The FAA Administrator and the Director of the National Park Service are to work cooperatively to develop an ATMP through a public process. 
   The development of an ATMP will include the environmental requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. The bill would also require that commercial air tour operators increase their safety standards, specifically by meeting FAA Part 135 or Part 121 safety criteria. 
   Certain parks have been dealt with individually in the bill because of their unique circumstances. Since Grand Canyon overflights are governed by legislation that has already been enacted into law, the Grand Canyon National Park has been exempted from the legislation. Alaska is also exempt from the legislation given the vast expanse of park land and the unique nature of aviation in the state. The legislation would prohibit commercial air tours of the Rocky Mountain National Park. 
   Let me conclude by saying that commercial air tours provide a legitimate means of experiencing national parks. They are particularly important for providing access to the elderly and the disabled. I believe that this legislation appropriately balances the rights of all park visitors. I hope and expect that we can work together toward its swift enactment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-2-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the Air Transportation Improvement Act, which would reauthorize the programs of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), including the Airport Improvement Program (AIP). This legislation includes numerous provisions that will help sustain and enhance safety, security, efficiency, and competition in the national aviation system. The bill also would establish a widely-endorsed system for managing the environmental consequences of commercial air tour flights over national parks. 
   As most of my colleagues know, the Commerce Committee worked hard last year to develop a multi-year FAA reauthorization bill. Following a bipartisan, inclusive, and constructive process, we developed a package that among other things would have authorized important airport construction grants. The legislation also would have instituted a host of safety and security enhancements. 
   One of the key elements of last year's Senate-passed FAA bill was the aviation competition and service title. It would have modestly enhanced the capacity at the four slot-controlled airports in the country--LaGuardia and JFK in New York, Chicago O'Hare, and Reagan National. New entrant, low fare carriers have been effectively shut out of these key markets, which are critical to sustaining a healthy network and giving consumers new low cost choices. 
   Senator FRIST and Majority Leader LOTT were instrumental in developing these proposals. Senator FRIST in particular has been out in front in the effort to bolster the role that regional jets play in the overall aviation system. As everyone who cares about the quality of air service knows, regional jets will be integral to expanding and improving service to small and medium-sized communities in the years to come. 
   Unfortunately, special interests worked to thwart our efforts and killed these provisions to encourage airline competition. Instead of delivering pro-consumer aviation legislation to the traveling public, Congress failed to act after some of the major airlines applied pressure against these proposals that threatened their lock on the market. 
   On the same day that the Senate approved the bill by a vote of 92 to one, we also appointed conferees. Although the House approved its own FAA reauthorization bill in August of last year, the leadership failed to appoint conferees. As a result, the two chambers were never given an opportunity to reconcile the two bills. Congress was then forced to include a short-term reauthorization of the AIP in the Omnibus Appropriations Act for fiscal year 1999. This was a clear failure on the part of the 105th Congress. 
   The text of the bill I am introducing today is nearly identical to the FAA reauthorization bill that the Senate approved overwhelmingly last year. The only changes that have been made involve a few purely technical corrections and removal of provisions that have already been enacted into law.  
   In last year's Omnibus Appropriations Act, we reauthorized the AIP for six months so that this Congress would have to act immediately to complete the work of the last Congress. The AIP is set to expire on March 31, 1999. With the introduction of this bill, I am fulfilling my commitment to continue the reauthorization process where the last Congress left off in a time frame that ensures the continuation of the federal airport grant program. 
   I plan to hold a hearing on this bill and to mark it up as soon as possible. The heavy lifting has already been done. The bill may undergo some revisions, especially considering our good fortune to have Senator ROCKEFELLER appointed as the new ranking member on the Aviation Subcommittee. Even so, it will not be necessary for us to start from scratch. As the Commerce Committee begins this effort, I look forward to working again with Senators GORTON, HOLLINGS, and ROCKEFELLER, as well as the rest of my colleagues, on a reauthorization package that all Senators can support. 
   Mr. President, we must work over the next few months to finish the job we started last year. It is vital that we push forward with the important pro-consumer provisions that are included in this bill. Last year, consumers lost out to special interests. This year, I will use all means at my disposal to ensure that does not happen again. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-3-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill to repeal the three percent federal excise tax that all Americans pay every time they use a telephone. 
   Under current law, the federal government taxes you three percent of your monthly phone bill for the so-called ``privilege'' of using your phone lines. This tax was first imposed one hundred years ago. To help finance the Spanish-American War, the federal government taxed telephone service, which in 1898 was a luxury service enjoyed by relatively few. The tax reappeared as a means of raising revenue for World War I, and continued as a revenue-raiser during the Great Depression, World War II, the Korean and Vietnam Wars, and the chronic federal budget deficits of the last twenty years. 
   Fortunately for telephone subscribers, we are enjoying some long-overdue good news: thanks to the Balanced Budget Act enacted by the Congress in 1997, we are now expecting budget surpluses for the next decade, perhaps as much as $700 billion. Mr. President, just as it did in the 105th Congress, that announcement should mean the end of the federal phone excise tax. 
   Here's why. First of all, the telephone is a modern-day necessity, not like alcohol, or furs, or jewelry, or other items of the sort that the government taxes this way. The Congress specifically recognized the need for all Americans to have affordable telephone service when it enacted the 1996 Telecommunications Act. The universal service provisions of the Act are intended to assure that all Americans, regardless of where they live or how much money they make, have access to affordable telephone service. The telephone excise tax, which bears no relationship to any government service received by the consumer, is flatly inconsistent with the goal of universal telephone service. 
   It's also a highly regressive and unfair tax that hurts low-income and rural Americans even more than other Americans. Low-income families spend a higher percentage of their income than medium- or high-income families on telephone service, and that means the telephone tax hits low-income families much harder. For that reason the Congressional Budget Office has concluded that increases in the telephone tax would have a greater impact on low-income families than tax increases on alcohol or tobacco products. And a study by the American Agriculture Movement concluded that excise taxes like the telephone tax impose a disproportionately large tax burden on rural customers, too, who rely on telephone service in isolated areas. 
   But, in addition to being unfair and unnecessary, there is another reason why we should eliminate the telephone excise tax. Implementation of the Telecom Act of 1996 requires all telecommunications carriers--local, long-distance, and wireless--to incur new costs in order to produce a new, more competitive market for telecommunications services of all kinds. 
   Unfortunately, the cost increases are arriving far more quickly than the new, more competitive market. The Telecom Act created a new subsidy program for wiring schools and libraries to the Internet, and the cost of funding that subsidy has increased bills for business and residential users of long-distance telephone service and for consumers of wireless services. 
   Mr. President, the fact that the Telecom Act has imposed new charges on consumers' bills makes it absolutely incumbent upon us to strip away any unnecessary old charges. And that means the telephone excise tax. 
   Mr. President, the telephone excise tax isn't a harmless artifact from bygone days. It collects money for wars that are already over, and for budget deficits that no longer exist, from people who can least afford to spend it now and from people who are footing higher bills as a result of the 1996 Telecom Act implementation. That's unfair, that's wrong, and that must be stopped. 
   San Juan Hill and Pork Chop Hill have now gone down in history, and so should this tax. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-4-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Trading Information Act. In 1998, Americans continued to discover the Internet for the increased access to information and entertainment it provides, and as a more convenient means of purchasing goods. Americans also continued to discover the Internet as a more direct means of making and managing investments. 
   Online stock trading is growing at a phenomenal pace. According to Forrester Research, there are more than 3 million online accounts, and that number is expected to exceed 14 million by 2002. In fact, the number of online traders in 1998 doubled from 1997, as it did from 1996. 
   Trading over the Internet is providing more Americans with the opportunity to increase their personal wealth, and to participate in the current growth in the market. New discount brokerages, high-speed Internet access, and ``real time'' market updates are all contributing to the growth of online trading. The Trading Information Act will help to preserve this growing trend. 
   The Trading Information Act will ensure that online traders will continue to have access to information relating to financial markets which they rely on to properly manage their assets. Whether watching a stock ticker on television, receiving up-to-date information over a cell phone or pager, or logging on with an online brokerage firm, Americans must continue to have unfettered access to this vital information, and this bill will ensure they continue to have it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-5-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to introduce a bill today to limit and prevent needless and costly litigation which is arising as a result of the computer programming problem commonly known as Y2K. Even before December 31 arrives lawsuits are beginning to be filed. This is an unfortunate reflection on our overly litigious society, and a situation which needs to be  remedied. The Y2K Act takes a step toward encouraging technology producers to work with technology users and consumers to ensure a seamless transition for the 1990's to the year 2000. 
   The purpose of this legislation is to ensure that we look to solving the technology glitch known as Y2K rather than clog our courts with years of costly litigation. The legislation is designed to compensate actual losses, but to assure that the courts do not punish defendants who have made good faith efforts to remedy the technology failure. My goal is to provide incentives for fixing the potential Y2K failures before they happen, rather than create windfalls for those who litigate. 
   The bill would also encourage efficient resolution of failures by requiring plaintiffs to afford their potential defendants an opportunity to remedy the failure and make things right before facing a lawsuit. We should encourage people to talk to each other, to try to address and remedy problems in a timely and professional manner. 
   Physical injuries are not covered by the limitations on litigation and damages in this bill. In those instances where a computer date failure is responsible for personal physical injury, it is best to leave the remedy to existing state laws. Further, it would be imprudent policy to offer any ``safe harbor'' in such situations because to do so might have the undesired result of discouraging proactive remediation. 
   This bill is a starting point. It provides an opportunity to begin discussion. It is my intention to hold a hearing in the near future, and to bring this bill to mark-up as quickly as full discussion will permit. I know many of my colleagues are interested in addressing this issue as well, and I look forward to working with them, and with affected industries and consumers to arrive at an acceptable piece of legislation which will benefit industry and consumers alike. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-6-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce The Children's Internet Protection Act, which is designed to protect children from exposure to sexually explicit and other harmful material when they access the Internet in school and in the library. This legislation is substantially similar to the Internet School Filtering Act, which I introduced in the last session of Congress. 
   This legislation, like its predecessor, comes to grips with one of the more unfortunate aspects of modern life: that the problems modern life don't stop at the schoolhouse door. Societal problems like violence and drugs have become part of the curriculum of life at many schools. 
   Now, however, we are adding another problem to the list. And this particular wolf of a problem will walk into our schools disguised in the worthiest of sheeps' clothing: the Internet. 
   Today, pornography is widely available on the Internet. According to ``Wired'' magazine, today there are approximately 28,000 adult Web sites promoting hard and soft-core pornography. Together, these sites register many millions of ``hits'' by websurfers per day. 
   Mr. President, there is no question that some of the websurfers who are accessing these sites are children. Some, unfortunately, are actively searching for these sites. But many others literally and unintentionally stumble across them. 
   Anyone who uses seemingly innocuous terms while searching the World Wide Web for educational or harmless recreational purposes can inadvertently run into adult sites. For example, when the term ``H20'' was typed recently into a search engine, one of the first of over 36,000 sites retrieved led to another site titled ``www.hardcoresex.com.'' This site provided the typical warning to those under 18 not to enter--and then proceeded to offer a free, uncensored preview of the pornographic material on the site. And when the searcher attempted to escape from the site, new porn-oriented sites immediately opened. 
   Parents wishing to protect their children from exposure to this kind of material can monitor their children's Internet use at home. This is a parent's proper role, and no amount of governmental assistance or industry self-regulation will ever be as effective in 
   protecting children as parental supervision. But parents can't supervise how their children use the Internet outside the home, in schools and libraries. 
   Mr. President, the billions of dollars per year the federal government will be giving schools and libraries to enable them to bring advanced Internet learning technology to the classroom will bring in the Internet's explicit online content as well. These billions of dollars will ultimately be paid for by the American people. So it is only right that if schools and libraries accept these federally-provided subsidies for Internet access, they have an absolute responsibility to their communities to assure that children are protected from online content that can harm them. 
   And this harm can be prevented. The prevention lies, not in censoring what goes onto the Internet, but rather in filtering what comes out of it onto the computers our children use outside the home. 
   Mr. President, Internet filtering system work, and they need not be blunt instruments that unduly constrain the availability of legitimately instructional material. Today they are adaptable, capable of being fine-tuned to accommodate changes in websites as well as the evolving needs of individual schools and even individual lesson-plans. Best of all, their use will channel explicit material away from children while they are not under parental supervision, while not in any way inhibiting the rights of adults who may wish to post indecent material on the Web or have access to it outside school environs. 
   Mr. President, it boils down to this: The same Internet that can benefit our children is also capable of inflicting terrible damage on them. For this reason, school and library administers who accept universal service support to provide students with its intended benefits must also safeguard them against its unintended harm. I commend the efforts of those who have recognized this responsibility by providing filtering systems in the many educational facilities that have already have Internet capability. This legislation assures that this responsibility is extended to all other institutions as they implement advanced technologies funded by federally-mandated universal service funds. 
   Mr. President, this bill takes a sensible approach. It requires schools receiving universal service discounts to use a filtering system on their computers so that objectionable online materials will not be accessible to students. Libraries with more than one computer are required to use a filtering system on at least one computer used by minors. Filtering technology is itself eligible to be subsidized by the E-rate discount. Schools and libraries must install and use filtering or blocking technology to be eligible to receive universal service fund subsidies for Internet access. If schools and libraries do not do so, they will not be eligible to receive universal service fund-subsidized discounts and will have to refund any E-rate subsidy funds already paid out. 
   Some have argued that the use of filtering technology in public schools and libraries would amount to censorship under the First Amendment. The Supreme Court has found, however, that obscenity is not protected by the First Amendment. And insofar as other sexually-explicit material is concerned, the bill will not affect an adult's ability to access this information on the Internet, and it will in no way impose any filtering requirement on Internet use in the home. 
   Perhaps most important, the bill prohibits the federal government from prescribing any particular filtering system, or from imposing a different filtering system than the one selected by the certifying educational authority. It thus places the prerogative for determining which filtering system best reflects the community's standards precisely where it should be: on the community itself.  
   Mr. President, more and more people are using the Internet each day. Currently, there may be as many as 50 million Americans online, and that number is expected to at least double by the millennium. As Internet use in our schools and libraries continues to grow, children's potential exposure to harmful online content will only increase. This bill simply assures that universal service subsidies will be used to defend them from the very dangers that these same subsidies are otherwise going to increase. This is a rational response to what could otherwise be a terrible and unintended problem. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-7-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Surface Transportation Board (STB) Reauthorization Act of 1999. I am pleased Senator HOLLINGS, the Ranking member of Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Majority Leader LOTT, also a distinguished member of our Committee, have joined me in sponsoring this important legislation. 
   The introduction of this bill on this, the first day in the 106th Congress for introducing legislation, is intended to demonstrate the firm commitment of the bill's sponsors to enact multi-year legislation extending the Board's authorization. Many of us worked toward enacting a reauthorization measure last year, but those efforts were unsuccessful due to matters generally unrelated to the Board itself. While those rail-related issues remain for some, I do not believe we should hold the STB's reauthorization hostage and believe we could consider dual-track measures--this reauthorization on the one hand and proposals for statutory changes on another. Although the dual-track did not succeed last Congress, I am hopeful that it can in the 106th Congress. 
   The Surface Transportation Board Reauthorization Act of 1999 is straight forward. First, it proposes to reauthorize the STB for the current fiscal year through 2002 and provide sufficient resources to ensure the Board is able to continue to carry out its very serious responsibilities and duties. Second, it proposes that the Board's Chairmanship be subject to Senate confirmation like a host of other Boards and Commissions throughout the Federal governmental, including the National Transportation Safety Board, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Export-Import Bank, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission to name a few. 
   Mr. President, I want to inform my colleagues that the Senate Commerce Committee intends to fully explore the resource needs of the Board and also consider limited proposals for statutory changes advocated by some members. I know the Chairman of the Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee, Senator HUTCHISON, plans to hold hearings on the STB and continue the examination of STB actions affecting rail service and rail shipper problems which were initiated during the 105th Congress. 
   As I have stated on numerous occasions, rail service and rail shipper issues warrant serious consideration. These matters have received extensive and comprehensive examination under Subcommittee Chairman HUTCHISON's able leadership and will continue as important oversight issues under the Committee's jurisdiction. I strongly believe, however, specific rail service and rail shipper problems and cases are best resolved by the Board. That is why Congress must provide the Board with the resources and legal authority necessary for it to continue to carry out its statutory duties fully and fairly, and on a timely basis. 
   The STB is one of our smallest Federal entities and it has very limited resources. It is imperative that we reauthorize the Board so that it can continue to produce the vast workload it has achieved since its inception in 1996. We must do our part to assist the Board in fulfilling its statutory duties responsibly and independently. The Administration and Congress must also take necessary action to ensure a fully constituted Board.  
   I look forward to working on this important transportation legislation and hope my colleagues will agree to join with me and the other sponsors in expeditiously moving this necessary reauthorization through the legislative process. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-8-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, today I and Senator HUTCHISON, Senator STEVENS, Senator CRAIG, Senator WARNER, and Senator ASHCROFT are introducing the Government Shutdown Prevention Act of 1999. This bill creates a statutory continuing resolution as sort of a safety net funding mechanism, which would be triggered only if the Fiscal Year 2000 appropriation acts do not become law or if there is no governing continuing resolution in place after the start of Fiscal Year 2000. 
   Mr. President, this legislation is important. It must be done soon, and I intend to seek early action on this bill. I believe the lesson of the last 4 years is that we cannot allow the Government to be shut down again, nor can we allow the threat of a Government shutdown to be so imminent that we fiscal conservatives are forced to acquiesce to the appropriation of billions of dollars for projects that do not serve our nation's best interests. 
   What this legislation does is ensure that the Government will not shut down and that Government shutdowns cannot be used for political gain. This safety net continuing resolution basically would set spending for fiscal year 2000 at 98 percent of 1999 funding levels. The resolution would take effect only if the Congress and the President have not completed their work on time. 
   Mr. President, let me make it clear that this bill only applies to the Fiscal Year 2000 appropriations. I believe that it should be expanded to make the statutory continuing resolution a permanent safety net to prevent disruptive government shutdowns. 
   We all saw the effects of gridlock in the past. No one wins when the Government shuts down. Shutdowns only confirm the American people's suspicions that we are more interested in political gain than doing the nation's business. The American people are tired of gridlock. They want the Government to work for them, not against them. 
   Our Founding Fathers would have been ashamed of our inability to execute the power of the purse in a responsible fashion. I am sure they would have been quite shocked by the 27 days in late 1995 that the Government was shut down, the 13 continuing resolutions that had to be passed to provide temporary spending authority, and the almost $6 billion in blackmail money that was given to the Administration to ensure that the Government did not shut down a third time in Fiscal Year 1966. 
   Although Republicans shouldered the blame for the 1995 Government shutdown, President Clinton and his colleagues were equally at fault for using it for their political gain. Republicans were outmaneuvered by President Clinton because we did not realize that he was willing to use the budget process for his own political purposes. 
   We also cannot let the threat of another Government shutdown force us to adopt another fiscal debacle like the FY 1999 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. The political finagling that led to the extra $20 billion in pork-barrel spending in that bill made mockery of the budget process and insulted the intention of the framers to give Congress the power of the purse. The only reason the Congress passed such a monstrosity was the ever-present specter of another government shutdown and Washington gridlock in an election year.  
   The Government Shutdown Act of 1999 does not erode the power of the appropriators. It gives them ample opportunity to do their job. It is only if the appropriations process is not completed by the beginning of the fiscal year, that the safety net continuing resolution will go into effect. In addition, I emphasize that entitlements are fully protected in this legislation. The bill specifically states that entitlements such as Social Security--as obligated by law--will be paid regardless of what appropriations bills are passed or not passed. 
   We saw in 1995 how politically motivated government shutdowns hit all Americans hard. In my State of Arizona, during the Government shutdown the Grand Canyon was closed for the first time in 76 years. I heard from people who worked close to the Grand Canyon. These were not Government employees. These were independent small business men and women. They told me that the shutdown cost them thousands of dollars because people could not go to the park. According to a CRS report, local communities near national parks alone lost an estimated $14.2 million per day in tourism revenues as a direct result of the Government shutdown, for a total of nearly $400 million over the course of the shutdown. 
   The cost of the last Government shutdown cannot be measured in just dollars and cents. During the 1995 shutdown, millions of Americans could not get crucial social services. For example, 10,000 new Medicare applications, 212,000 Social Security card requests, 360,000 individual office visits and 800,000 toll-free calls for information and assistance were turned away each day. There were even more delays in services for some of the most vulnerable in our society, including 13 million recipients of AFDC, 273,000 foster care children, over 100,000 children receiving adoption assistance services and over 100,000 Head Start children--not to mention the new patients that were not accepted into clinical research centers, the 7 million visitors who could not attend national parks, or the 2 million visitors turned away at museums and monuments. And the list goes on and on. 
   In addition, our Federal employees were left in fear wondering whether they would be paid, would they have to go to work, would they be able to pay their bills on time. In my State of Arizona, for example, of the 40,383 Federal employees, over 15,000 of them were furloughed in the 1995 Government shutdown. 
   As bad as the 1995 government shutdown was, the fiscal nightmare known as the FY 1999 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, was equally repulsive. This 4,000-page, 40-pound, nonamendable, budget-busting bill provided over a half-trillion dollars to fund 10 Cabinet-level federal departments. To make matters worse, this bill exceeded the budget ceiling by $20 billion 
   for what is euphemistically called emergency spending. Much of this so-called ``emergency spending'' is really everyday, garden-variety, special interest, pork-barrel spending paid for by robbing billions from the budget surplus. 
   This monstrous bill passed because Congress was forced to either pass it, or face another government shutdown. The Government Shutdown Prevention Act of 1999 would make it more difficult for opportunistic politicians to put the American public at risk by threatening to shutdown essential government functions if Congress cannot agree on spending priorities and policies. 
   A 1991 GAO report confirmed that permanent funding lapse legislation is a necessity. In their report they stated, ``Shutting down the Government during temporary funding gaps is an inappropriate way to encourage compromise on the budget.'' 
   Let us show the American people that we have learned our lessons from the 1995 Government shutdown and the 1998 fiscal debacle. Passing this preventive measure will go a long way to restore America's faith that politics or stalled negotiations will not stop Government operations. It will show our constituents that we will never again allow a Government shutdown or threat of a Government shutdown to be used for political gain. 
   We anticipate strong support from the Leadership, and urge them to move this legislation forward as soon as possible. This is must-pass legislation. Neither party can afford another breach of faith with the American people. Our constituents are tired of constantly being disappointed by the actions of Congress and the President. That is why this legislation is so important. Never again, should the American public's hard-earned dollars be used as ransom to prevent a politically motivated government shutdown. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-mccain-az-9-19990119</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, today, I will reintroduce the Separate Enrollment Act of 1999. This bil requires each targeted tax benefit or spending item in legislation to be enrolled as a separate bill before it is sent to the President. If the President chooses to veto one of these items, each of these vetoes would be returned to Congress separately for an override vote. 
   Last year, the Supreme Court struck down the line item vote on Constitutional grounds in a 6-3 decision. I was very saddened by this decision. Polls from previous years indicate that 83 percent of the American people support giving the President the line-item veto authority. We need the line-item veto to restore balance to the federal budget process. 
   The Supreme Court struck down the 1996 Line-Item Veto Act on the basis that the Constitution requires every bill to be presented to the President for his approval or disapproval. In other words, the decision was not based on the concept that transferring power to the President of the United States lacked constitutionally, but the fact that bills are to be sent to the President for approval in their entirety. 
   Separate enrollment as a line-item veto tool is not a new concept. This concept is not controversial. The Senate adopted S. 4, a separate enrollment bill in the 104th Congress, by a vote of 69 to 29. 
   Legal scholars contend that the separate enrollment concept is constitutional. Congress has the right to present a bill to the President of the United States. Separate enrollment merely addresses the question of what constitutes a bill. It does not erode or interfere with the presentment of the bill to the President. Under the rulemaking clause, Congress alone can determine the procedures for defining and enrolling a bill. Separate enrollment is constitutional and will clearly work. 
   Separate enrollment, as a line-item veto tool, will be a vital force in eliminating wasteful, unnecessary pork-barrel spending. Unfortunately, as we saw last year, pork-barrel spending is alive and well. 
   On October 21, 1998, Congress passed the FY 1999 Omnibus Appropriations Bill--the worst example of pork-barrel spending in my memory. This was a 4,000 page, 40-pound, non-amendable, budget-busting bill which provided over a half-trillion dollars to fund 10 Cabinet-level federal departments. The bill exceeded the budget ceiling by $20 billion for what is euphemistically called emergency spending, much of which is really everyday, garden-variety, special-interest, pork-barrel spending, paid for by robbing billions from the budget surplus. 
   The omnibus spending bill made a mockery of the Congress' role in fiscal matters. It was a betrayal of our responsibility to spend the taxpayers' dollars wisely and enact laws and policies that reflect the best interests of all Americans, rather than the special interests of a few. 
   We cannot afford this magnitude of park-barrel spending when we have accumulated a multi-trillion dollar national debt. Right now, today, we use a huge portion of our federal budget to make the interest payments on the national debt. In fact, the annual interest payment almost equals the entire budget for national defense. We should be paying down the national debt, saving Social Security, and providing tax cuts for hard-working middle class Americans, not indulging in wasteful, unnecessary spending. 
   The objective of the Separate Enrollment bill, and the Line-Item Veto before it, is to curb wasteful pork-barrel  spending by giving the President the authority to eliminate individual spending items. The Separate Enrollment Act of 1999 will be our new tool to restore fiscal responsibility to the way we spend Americans' hard-earned dollars. 
   This is not a partisan issue. The issue is fiscal responsibility. We have a President, we have 100 Senators, and we have 435 Representatives. It is hard to place responsibility upon any one person for profligate spending. Thus, no one is accountable for our runaway budget process. 
   Past Presidents have sought the line-time veto. Congress finally agreed in 1996, when we passed the Line-Item Veto Act, to give the President the ability to surgically remove wasteful spending for appropriations and authorization bills. It would also establish greater accountability in the Executive branch for fiscal decisions and provide much-needed checks and balances on Congressional spending sprees. 
   Unfortunately when given the Line-Item Veto authority in 1997, the President failed to exercise the authority in a meaningful fashion. Of over $8 billion in wasteful spending, he excised $491 million from the annual appropriations bills. And then the Supreme Court struck the Line-Item Veto Act down. 
   Restoring this power this year in the form of the Separate Enrollment Act would if exercised responsibly by the President, reduce the excesses of the congressional budget process that focus on locality-specific earmarking and cater to special interests, not the national interest. 
   Mr. President, I simply ask my colleagues to be fair and reasonable when addressing the issue of fiscal responsibility. The line-item veto, in the form of separate enrollment, is vital to curbing wasteful pork-barrel spending and restoring the American people's respect for their elected representatives. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

