<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20001012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise to pay tribute to an outstanding Kentuckian, Lt. Bob Douglas (ret). 
   For almost 30 years, Bob has crusaded against the scourge of drugs and served the people of Kentucky, helping to make the Commonwealth a safer place to live. 
   Bob worked for 25 years as a member of the Erlanger, Kentucky Police Department. For the last nine of those years, he was the primary instructor for the anti-drug program, D.A.R.E. When Bob retired from the police force in 1998, he became the Executive Director of the Kentucky Crime Prevention Coalition. He is also a new member of the steering committee of the National Crime Prevention Council. 
   For his efforts, Bob was recently presented with a 2000 Mac Gray Award for his outstanding effort to promote the National Citizens' Crime Prevention Campaign. The award recognizes those who have made extraordinary contributions and pledged personal commitment to work with the media to promote anti-drug public service announcements and crime prevention education. 
   Some have kidded Bob about the Columbo-style overcoat he wears. But like Peter Falk's character, Bob gets results. For years, he visited children in schools to teach them about the dangers of drugs and to urge them to stay out of trouble. With his partner, the canine character, Officer McGruff, there is no doubt that Bob made an impression and steered more than a few children in the right direction. 
   Too often we hear about our problems and the trouble-makers in society, and we don't hear enough about our heroes and the everyday citizens who make a difference and improve our quality of life. Bob Douglas is one of those heroes, and he deserves our commendation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20001010</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, today, October 10th, is the 89th observance of National Day in the Republic of China on Taiwan. From its early days of struggle on the Chinese mainland to the establishment of the vigorous democracy and free market economy that we know today on Taiwan, the Republic of China has made great strides since its founding on October 10, 1911. 
   The vision of Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the founding father of the Republic of China, was expressed in what he called the ``Three Principles of the People''--nationalism, democracy, and the people's well being. We all hope that Dr. Sun's vision, which has been realized so impressively on Taiwan, will some day be equally as true on the Chinese mainland. 
   Taiwan held its most recent parliamentary election in December 1998 and, of course, conducted its most recent presidential election just this past March. The election of Chen Shui-bian as president marked Taiwan's first transition of power from one party to another at the national level. Even more important, it marked the first time in the 5,000-year-long history of Chinese society that one democratically-elected head of state was succeeded by another. 
   In the economic and social fields, Taiwan's success is well known. The 22 million people of Taiwan are responsible for the 19th largest gross national product in the world. Japan is the only country with a larger population in all of Asia that has a higher standard of living than Taiwan's. Taiwan has an extraordinarily diversified economy: all the way from being virtually a ``silicon island'' and the world's third largest supplier of computer chips to being a major manufacturing power in such heavy industries as steel and shipbuilding. 
   All of this has not come about by accident. Wise leadership, dating back to the 1950's, laid the groundwork for the dynamic nation we see today. With strong and continued American support--and this is ever more crucial to the security and stability of the entire East Asia region--Taiwan will thrive and prosper far into the future. Believe me, the world is watching to see how the United States treats democratic Taiwan, because the future of every other democracy in East Asia is ultimately contingent on the stand we take. 
   The success of Taiwan must also continue to serve as an example--as well as a challenge--to the people and government on the Chinese mainland. The free, prosperous, democratic society that Taiwan has become is a glimpse of what can come to be on the mainland if  the dictatorship in Beijing would get out of the way. 
   And so I salute the Republic of China on Taiwan on the occasion of National Day. And I look forward to many more celebrations to come.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000918</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, last week I spoke on the floor about how strongly I feel against providing permanent normal trade relations to China. I touched on a number of subjects, including human rights, China's antagonism toward Taiwan, and the threat that it poses to our own national security. 
   Unfortunately, over the last 2 weeks I have watched these issues be swept under the rug as the Senate has given away its voice on our trade relations with the most populous nation on the globe. 
   But while I expect the Senate will pass this PNTR, I do not intend to go down without one final swing. It is too important for our Nation not to sum up why the opponents of PNTR believe it is such a dangerous mistake. 
   For the last decade, I have been a vocal opponent of providing most favored nation or normal trade relations to China. For me, it all boils down to putting profits over people. I think that is just plain wrong and un-American. But while we were never able to stop Congress from approving MFN, at least we had an open and public debate on the issue every year. But by passing PNTR, we will even lose this right. 
   For years we have been able to use the annual debate to discuss the wisdom of granting broad trade privileges to Communist China. When the students were massacred in Tiananmen 
   Square, or when the Chinese military threatened democracy in Taiwan, or when the revelations came to light about China spreading weapons of mass destruction to terrorists, we had a chance in the House and in the Senate to shine the spotlight on Communist China. 
   By passing PNTR, that spotlight will grow dim and the stick we were once able to wield under the most-favored-nation-status law will now be replaced by a rubber stamp bearing the letters, ``W-T-O.'' 
   My opponents on this issue talk as if the American economy will fail if we do not pass this bill, that it is so important we should sweep aside all of the concerns about China and all of the evidence of wrongdoing because we should not ``rock the boat.'' That is ridiculous. 
   I say, on something as fundamental as our national security, we should not just say we have to go along to get along. If this is as important an issue as supporters of PNTR make it out to be--that it is one of the most monumental votes in years--then we should have done it right. Instead, we have seen the deliberate process short circuited by blood oaths among Senators to oppose all amendments no matter how worthy. We have watched the supporters of PNTR move Heaven and Earth to avoid a conference with the House. 
   Remember, the Congress of the United States is supposed to be writing this bill, not the business community, not the U.S. Trade Representative, and especially not the Chinese. 
   The American people are listening. The cameras are rolling. The pressure is on to do what is right. But in this instance I think we have failed. 
   But before we hand over the keys of our economic engine, I think it is important that we take one last cold, hard look at who is exactly doing the driving. This is China's record. 
   China ships weapons of mass destruction to terrorist nations. 
   China operates one of the most oppressive regimes in the world, brutalizing and slaughtering its own people. 
   China threatens other free nations such as Taiwan and snubs its nose at the international community by occupying Tibet. 
   China tried to buy access to our Government through illegal campaign contributions and to influence our own elections. 
   There it is in black and white. But in the name of expediency and Presidential legacy, we are about to grant this nation full and open trade relations. I do not care how you spin it, that does not make any sense. 
   For over a decade, the supporters of free trade with China have been making the argument over and over again that China is changing, that things are getting better, and we will soon reap the benefits of free trade with China. All the facts prove them wrong. 
   It has been over 10 years since Tiananmen Square, and the Chinese are still slaughtering their own people. They are still selling weapons to terrorists. And they are still bullying other nations and threatening the United States. Nothing is any different with China now. In fact, it might be worse. Those who say otherwise are only fooling themselves. 
   While the annual debates on MFN or PNTR, or whatever you want to call it, might not have turned the tide in China, to now provide even less debate and scrutiny can only make things worse for the Chinese people. 
   I think the supporters are right about one thing. The 
   final vote on this bill is going to be one of the most pivotal votes in years, one we will look back upon as a fateful moment in our history. I am afraid history is not going to be kind to Congress for passing this legislation, for abdicating our role in overseeing trade relations with China. 
   Mr. President, it is a sad day in Congress. I am sorry to say we are going to do the wrong thing at the wrong time. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000908</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to granting permanent normal trade relations to China, and in support of Senator THOMPSON's China Non-proliferation Act. 
   It is a sad time in the Senate. Soon we are going to vote on extending permanent normal trade relations--PNTR--to China. And it looks like it is going to pass. 
   If we grant PNTR and give our seal of approval to China's application to join the World Trade Organization, Congress will not only relinquish its best chance to scrutinize China's behavior on a regular basis, but it will also give away what little leverage we have to bring about real, true change in China. I think that is a serious and dangerous mistake. 
   For years, we have been able to annually debate trade with China in Congress, and to use the debate to discuss the wisdom of granting broad trade privileges to Communist China. 
   When the Chinese troops massacred the students in Tiananmen Square, or when the Chinese military threatened democracy on neighboring Taiwan, or when revelations came to light about China spreading weapons of mass destruction to terrorist nations, we had a chance in the House and Senate to shine the spotlight on Communist China. 
   I served on the House Ways and Means Committee for 8 years, and  every year we debated most-favored nation trade--so-called MFN status--for China. Supporters of MFN always had the votes to pass it, but it was still an important opportunity to focus attention on China's misdeeds and to make sure the American public knew about China's dirty little secrets. Now we are going to lose that ability. 
   I would like to take some time today to talk about why we should not grant PNTR to China and explain my reasons for opposing it. While I know that the votes are probably there to pass PNTR, I want to lay out for the record what is at stake and also to argue that we should at a minimum take the step of also passing Senator THOMPSON's bill to maintain some semblance of accountability for Communist China. 
   First, let's look at China's record when it comes to arms control and the spread of weapons of mass destruction. 
   There is no doubt that China's practice of making weapons of mass destruction available to rogue states like North Korea, Iran, and Libya has made the world a more dangerous place. 
   The commission led by Former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld that recently examined this problem pointed out in its final report that China is ``a significant proliferator of ballistic missiles, weapons of mass destruction and enabling technologies.'' 
   We know Communist China has sold nuclear components and missiles to Pakistan, missile parts to Libya, cruise missiles to Iran, and that it shared sensitive technologies with North Korea. 
   In the last few months it has even been reported in the press that China is building another missile plant in Pakistan, and is illegally using American supercomputers to improve its nuclear weapon technology. 
   Many of these technologies are being used by enemies of America to develop weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them. 
   In short, Beijing is guilty of spreading the most dangerous weapons imaginable to some of the most treacherous and threatening states on the globe. 
   That is about as bad as it gets. 
   From experience, we know that China doesn't change its policies just because we ask them to. China only makes serious non-proliferation commitments under the threat of the actual imposition of sanctions. 
   We have to hold their feet to the fire. A memorandum from the assistant director at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency to the Clinton White House in 1996 makes the case:  
   The history of U.S.-China relations shows that China has made specific non-proliferation commitments only under the threat or imposition of sanctions. Beijing made commitments [to limit missile technology exports] in 1992 and 1994, in exchange for our lifting of sanctions.  
   Over the years, it is only when the United States has clearly brought economic pressure to bear on China that we have seen real, hard results from Beijing. 
   For instance, economic pressure in the late 1980s and early 1990s led to China's agreement to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty in 1992. 
   In 1991, the Bush administration applied sanctions against China after Beijing transferred missile technology to Pakistan. Five months later, China made the commitment to abide by the missile technology control regime. 
   In 1993, the Clinton administration imposed sanctions on Beijing for the sale of M-11 missile equipment to Pakistan in violation of international arms control agreements. Over a year later, Beijing backed down by agreeing not to export ground-to-ground missiles in exchange for our lifting of sanctions. 
   Time and time again we have seen that Chinese respond to the stick, and not the carrot. And this experience certainly points to the fact that the threat of sanctions like those in the Thompson bill, and not the olive branch of greater trade, is what the Chinese will respect. 
   Beijing's behavior has not been much better when it comes to democratic Taiwan. 
   I have been to Taiwan, and seen how its commitment to democracy and the free market has enabled that country to build one of the most vibrant economies in the world. 
   Taiwan is a friend of the United States and a good ally. 
   But time and time again Communist China has rattled its saber and threatened the very existence of free Taiwan. Less than 5 years ago, China actually fired missiles over Taiwan. 
   Since then China has conducted a massive military buildup across the Taiwan strait. 
   Last year, CIA Director Tenet reported to Congress that while China claims it doesn't want conflict with Taiwan, ``It refuses to renounce the use of force as an option and continues to place its best new military equipment across from the island.'' 
   This belligerent attitude threatens not only Taiwan, but more ominously relations throughout East Asia. 
   The Pentagon's 1998 East Asian strategy report notes that many of ``China's neighbors are closely monitoring China's growing defense expenditures and modernization of the People's Liberation Army, including development and acquisition of advanced fighter aircraft; programs to develop mobile ballistic systems, land-attack and anti-ship cruise missiles, and advanced surface-to-air missiles; and a range of power projection platforms.'' 
   Recently there seems to have been a thaw in relations between China and Taiwan. This is a hopeful sign. But who knows when Beijing will change course and revert to its belligerent ways. We need to help keep the pressure on. 
   Eliminating the annual debate on China trade in Congress will remove one of our most effective and high-profile options in pressuring the Chinese. In dealing with an adversary as tenacious and patient as China, this is exactly the wrong philosophy to adopt. 
   Even more ominous than threats to Taiwan have been recent signs of increased Chinese belligerence toward the United States. 
   In February, 1999, the CIA reported to Congress that China is developing air and naval systems ``intended to deter the United States from involvement in Taiwan and to extend China's fighting capabilities beyond its coastline.'' 
   And we should not forget the recent threat from a Chinese general to fire a nuclear weapon at Los Angeles if the United States were to interfere in Taiwan-China relations. 
   There are even indications that China's military could be anticipating a confrontation with the United States. 
   In January, 1999, the Washington Times reported that for the first time, China's army conducted mock attacks on United States troops stationed in the Asia-Pacific region. 
   Intelligence also reported that United States troops in South Korea and Japan were envisioned as potential targets of these practice attacks. 
   President Reagan used to talk about adopting a policy of peace through strength in approaching the Russians during the cold war. That policy worked then, and it should be the policy we follow in confronting the Chinese. 
   All of the experts tell us that China potentially poses the strongest military and economic threat to America in the 21st century. 
   Passing PNTR sends the signal to China that we want trade more than we want peace. 
   Instead, we should heed the lessons we learned in winning the cold war and understand that the Communist Chinese are more likely to respect our strength than to fear our weakness. 
   Finally, the strongest case against PNTR can be made based on China's pathetic, indefensible human rights record. 
   Let me quote from the very first paragraph of our own State Department's most recent report on human rights in China:  
   The People's Republic of China is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party is the paramount source of all power. At the national and regional levels, party members hold almost all top government, police and military positions. Ultimate authority rests with members of the Politburo. Leaders stress the need to maintain stability and social order and are committed to perpetuating the rule of the Communist Party and its hierarchy. Citizens lack both the freedom peacefully to express opposition to the party-led political system and the right to change their national leaders or form of government.  
   The report goes on to note that in 1999:  
   The government's poor human rights record deteriorated markedly throughout the year, as the government intensified efforts to suppress dissent, particularly organized dissent.  
   That is our own State Department saying that. It doesn't sound like a nation that we want to encourage with expanded trade privileges.  
   Many of my friends in this body argue that China is making progress on human rights, and that expanded trade and western influence will help turn the tide. They tell me that in China things have improved dramatically in recent years. 
   I say, tell that to the tens of thousands of members of the Fulan Gong who have been hunted down and punished by Beijing over the past 2 years. 
   Tell that to the prisoners in China's Gulags who continue to suffer under conditions that, in our own State Department's words, are ``harsh'' and ``degrading''. 
   Tell that to the political dissents who are jailed out without charge only because they threaten the communist party's political dominance. 
   Tell that to the children who were murdered because of China's brutal one child per family policy. 
   Tell that to the people of Tibet. 
   Mr. President, all those who say that things are getting better in China and that PNTR will help improve conditions in China are wrong. 
   It's been 11 years since the Tiananmen Square Massacre, and the Chinese Government still carries out the same brutal, repressive tactics. 
   Things aren't getting any better in China. They're only getting worse. 
   The supporters of PNTR made the same argument year after year during the annual debates on most-favored-nation status for China. And year and year, Beijing showed no sign of changing its ways. None. 
   In one way, this is a hard vote for me, Mr. President. Many of my friends support expanded trade privileges for China, and they make an enthusiastic argument for expanding access to Chinese markets in order to help American business compete with their overseas competitors. 
   My gut reaction is to vote for free and expanded trade. In my mind, there isn't any doubt that the world is really drawing closer and closer together, and that it will be through trade that the United States can take advantage of its economic and technological advantages to maintain our dominant position in the world. 
   But in other, more important, ways this vote is easy is for me--because the issues are so clear when it comes to China, and because China's behavior has made it so undeserving of improved trade ties with the United States. 
   Mr. President, I've tried to simplify this issue in my mind and I've boiled it down to a single question that I've asked of everyone I have talked to about China trade: 
   Why should we give the best trade privileges possible under our law to a communist nation that so clearly threatens us and our values? 
   We didn't grant most-favored-nation status to Russia during the cold war. But now we are on the verge of passing the most privileged trade status we can give to the communist nation that is bent not only on supplanting America as the dominant economic power in the world, but is also actively supporting dangerous, rogue nations that threaten our citizens and our way of life. 
   It just doesn't make sense. 
   In conclusion, I urge a ``no'' vote on the China PNTR bill, and a ``yes'' vote on the Thompson bill. The Chinese have not earned the right to trade with us, and they have show no inclination to change their ways. 
   Senator THOMPSON's proposal is at least a modest attempt to preserve our options and to keep closer tabs on Communist China in case things take a turn for the worse. 
   For years, the pro-China trade forces have argued that expanding trade with China is the carrot we can use to bring about democratic change in that country. The evidence has proven them wrong time and time again. 
   Years of continuing MFN, or NTR, or whatever you want to call it haven't changed things in China. When it comes to China, the old saying still holds true: the more things change, the more they stay the same. 
   Trade has not worked before as a carrot, and it certainly won't work in the future if we remove the stick of annual reviews and possible sanctions. That's why it's so crucial that we pass the China Non-Proliferation Act. 
   Mr. President, when President Reagan negotiated arms control with the Russians, he used an old Russian phrase to sum up his approach--trust but verify. That strategy worked. 
   But by granting PNTR we are trusting, but failing to verify. In fact, we are even giving up what little ability we even have to verify. The Chinese certainly haven't given us any reason to take them at their word. 
   We need to verify and the Thompson bill is our best hope of insuring that China will live up to its word. Otherwise, why should we blindly trust a country that has proven time and time again that it doesn't live or play by the rules. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000721</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I regret that I was ill and unable to vote on the Senate floor yesterday during consideration of H.R. 4461, the FY01 Agriculture Appropriations Act. 
   Had I been here yesterday, I would have voted in the following manner. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 218, the Harkin Amendment, I would have vote ``Aye'' on the motion to table. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 219, the McCain Amendment, I would have vote ``Aye'' on the motion to table. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 220, the Wellstone Amendment, I would have vote ``Aye'' on the motion to table. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 221, the Harkin Amendment, I would have vote ``No'' on the amendment. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 222, the Wellstone Amendment, I would have vote ``Aye'' on the amendment. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 223, the Specter Amendment, I would have vote ``No'' on the amendment. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 224, on the question of germaneness of the Amendment, Number 3980, I would have voted ``no''. 
   On Rollcall Vote Number 225, final passage of the H.R. 4461, the FY01 Agriculture Appropriations Act, I would have voted ``Aye''. 
   I yield the floor. 
   TELEWORK 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I will talk just a little bit about the marriage penalty bill that we have before us. 
   I rise in strong support of this legislation to repeal the marriage penalty. 
   I am going to vote for this bill because it restores fairness and equity to married Americans under the Tax Code. It is the right and honorable thing to do. 
   By now I think all of my colleagues know the sad facts about the marriage penalty, and how it cruelly punishes married couples by forcing them to pay higher taxes on their income than if they were single. 
   For example, a married couple where both spouses earned $30,000 in 1999 would pay $7,655 in federal income taxes. Two individuals earning $30,000 each but filing single returns would pay only $6,892 combined. The $763 difference in tax liability is the marriage penalty. 
   In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that overall almost half of all married couples--22 million--suffered under the marriage penalty last year. The average penalty paid by these couples was $1,400. Cumulatively, the marriage penalty increases taxes on affected couples by $32 billion per year. 
   That is 44 million Americans who are paying a total of $32 billion in higher taxes each year simply because they took the walk down the aisle. 
   In my home State of Kentucky alone, there are over 800,000 married couples, many of whom are punished by the marriage penalty. 
   I can't think of one good reason why they should have to send more of their money to the Federal Government for the simple reason that they decided to get married. It is about the most unfair and unjust thing I have ever heard of. 
   This bill provides real relief by making four simple changes to the code. 
   It increases the standard deduction for married couples to twice the standard reduction for single taxpayers. 
   It expands 15-percent and 28-percent income tax brackets for married couples filing a joint return to twice the size of the corresponding brackets for individuals. 
   It updates the rule to eliminate the marriage penalty for low-income couples who qualify for the earned income credit. 
   And it corrects a glaring oversight in the Code whereby couples who have to pay the alternative minimum tax are denied the ability to fully claim family tax credits, such as the $500 per child tax credit, hope and lifetime learning credits, and the dependent care credit. 
   The marriage penalty is an outdated relic from the days when families primarily relied on one breadwinner. 
   The penalty principally occurs because the Tax Code provides a higher combined standard deduction for two workers filing as singles than for married couples, and the income tax bracket thresholds for married couples are less than twice that for single taxpayers. 
   As recently as several decades ago when most mothers stayed home and fathers trudged off to work at the factory each day, this might have made sense. 
   Back then it did not matter nearly as much if the Tax Code's standard deduction for a married couple wasn't twice as much as for an individual, or if the income brackets for couples weren't 
   double that for individuals. 
   Few families had to account for a second income, and had never heard of the marriage penalty. 
   But times change, and now in many families both parents do work. And I can guarantee you that they know their money is being wrongly taken from them by our immoral tax laws. 
   Congress and the Tax Code haven't kept pace with the American family. It is time to change that and to make sure that our code meets the needs of the modern family in the 21st century in America. 
   Even worse, the marriage penalty is a cancer that has spread throughout the Tax Code, and which goes beyond simply affecting standard deductions and income brackets. 
   There are at least 65 more provisions in our tax laws where married couples are unjustly penalized. Frankly, I think the bill before us today should be just the first step toward completely rooting the marriage penalty out of our Tax Code. 
   The adoption tax credit, the student loan interest deduction, retirement savings incentives, and dozens of other parts of the Code have all been afflicted by the marriage penalty, and are less available to married couples than if they were single earners trying to take advantage of this tax relief. 
   This means that the marriage penalty not only punishes Americans who have to foot the bill, it further undermines the good public policy goals that Congress has tried to implement when it passed these changes to the Tax Code. 
   This isn't the first time Congress has tried to fix the insidious marriage penalty. In 1995, Congress tried to increase the standard deduction for married couples to offset some of the marriage penalty. President Clinton vetoed that bill. 
   Again in 1999, Congress passed marriage penalty relief. Again the President vetoed it. 
   Both times the President said he liked the idea of marriage penalty relief, but didn't like other provisions in the legislation. So this year the House passed what I call a ``clean'' marriage penalty bill to try to answer his concerns. But, of course, he issued a strong statement in opposition to that bill. 
   However, that did not stop him from recently proposing a little horse trading, and telling Congress that he would reconsider and sign marriage penalty relief legislation if we would also pass his Medicare prescription drug plan. 
   If all that does is confuse you, I know it confuses me. But I think it means the President can't decide what he thinks about ending the marriage penalty. 
   So I believe that Congress should help clarify his thinking and send him a bill soon so he can make up his mind and decide if he really wants to help provide tax relief to the 44 million Americans who are unfairly punished by the marriage penalty. 
   It is time for the Senate to act and to send marriage penalty relief to the President. Until we do we are not going to be able to escape the fact that the marriage penalty causes a vicious cycle. 
   It imposes higher taxes on millions of families, and it unfairly takes away billions of dollars of income from married couples. That money is then sent to Washington and used to help pay for child care and other programs that families might not have needed in the first place if they had been able to keep the money that was stolen from them by the marriage penalty. 
   Mr. President, the marriage penalty is an evil that is eating away at our families. The American people want a divorce from the marriage penalty, and we can give it to them by passing this bill today. 
   I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000714</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation that is designed to protect the privacy of all Americans from identity theft caused by theft or abuse of an individual's Social Security number (SSN). 
   Mr. President, identity theft is the fastest growing financial crime in the nation, affecting an estimated 500,000 to 700,000 people annually. Allegations of fraudulent Social Security number use for identity theft increased from 26,531 cases in 1998 to 62,000 in 1999--this is a 233 percent increase in just one year! 
   In May of this year, the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse released a report that found of the more than 75% of identity theft crimes that took place last year, ``true name'' fraud was involved. What is ``true name'' fraud? 
   It is when someone uses your Social Security number to open new accounts in the victim's name. That means a common criminal can apply for credit cards, buy a car, obtain personal, business, auto or real estate loans, do just about anything in your name and you may not even know about it for months or even years. Across the country there are people who can tell you about losing their life savings or having their credit history damaged, simply because someone had obtained their Social Security number and fraudulently assumed their identity. 
   My bill prohibits the sale of Social Security numbers by the private sector, Federal, State and local government agencies. My bill strengthens existing criminal penalties for enforcement of Social Security number violations to include those by government employees. It amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to include the Social Security number as part of the information protected under the law, enhances law enforcement authority of the Office of Inspector General, and allows Federal courts to order defendants to make restitution to the Social Security Trust Funds. 
   Mr. President, I think that it is high time that we get back to the original purpose of the Social Security number. Social Security numbers were designed to be used to track workers and their earnings so that their benefits could be accurately calculated when a worker retires--nothing else. 
   My bill would also prohibit the display of Social Security numbers on drivers licenses, motor vehicle registration and other related identification records, like the official Senate ID Card. 
   I urge my colleagues to cosponsor this very important piece of legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000713</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in support of H.R. 8, the Death Tax Elimination Act of 2000. 
   This is a sound, sensible approach to providing death tax relief. It phases out the tax over a ten-year period by gradually reducing the marginal rates that apply to estates. And it includes a so-called ``step-up'' in basis for the first $1.3 million in assets ($3 million for spouses) that applies if assets are ever sold by heirs. 
   Right now the marginal rates assessed against estates are the highest in our tax code--55 percent for estates larger than $3 million plus a 5 percent surcharge assessed against larger estates. In fact, the United States has the dubious honor of imposing the most onerous estate tax in the developed world. This comes on the heels of recent moves by China, Canada and other developed countries to repeal their death taxes. 
   It is pitiful that in the U.S. we have worse death taxes than Communist China. 
   The estate tax was originally passed in 1916 to help fund our efforts in World War I. The last time I checked, that war was over. By the way, for my friends in the Senate who are still living in the early 20th century and oppose death tax repeal, I should point out that we won World War I. 
   Mr. President, these are a number of sound reasons to repeal the death tax. The best of these is the awful effect it has on small business and family farms. For years and years Congress has heard the sad stories about how small business owners and farm families have to sell family enterprises just to pay the taxes on estates that are passed down from generation to generation. 
   Additionally, a number of recent analyses make the case for death tax repeal. Studies by the Joint Economic Committee, the National Center for Policy Analysis, the Heritage Foundation, the American Council for Capital Formation, the Institute for Policy Innovation, the Cato Institute, and others all indicate the federal estate tax imposes significant costs on the economy and family-owned businesses, resulting in lower economic growth, job creation, and the destruction of family businesses. 
   The death tax hurts the ability of small businesses to vie against larger competitors. For instance, in testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee, a lumberyard owner from New Jersey spoke of incurring up to $1 million in costs associated with preserving the family business pending the death of his grandmother. At the same time the family was incurring these costs, the business was also competing against a new Home Depot store that had moved into the area. Remember that Home Depot and other big business is not subject to the estate tax. 
   In fact, a recent survey of 365 businesses in upstate New York found an estimated 14 jobs per business were lost in direct consequence of the costs associated with estate tax planning and payment. That amounts to more than 5,000 jobs lost in a limited geographical area. Nationally, the Wall Street Journal reported that an estimated 200,000 jobs would be created or preserved if the estate tax were eliminated. 
   The liberals who oppose death tax repeal claim this is a red herring, and that the bill will really only would help the super-rich and multi-billionaires. In fact, 50 percent of the revenue the federal government derives from the death tax comes from estates worth less than $5 million. 
   Additionally, the death tax provides less than 2 percent of the federal government's total tax revenues. To hear the Chicken Little liberals talk about it, repealing this tax would cause the sky to fall and the government to collapse for lack of funding. These are only crocodile tears from the big government addicts who cannot bear the thought of hard-working Americans not being forced to send more of their money to Washington to fund big government programs. 
   Although this bill passed the House by a veto-proof margin, and enjoys bipartisan support here in the Senate, the President has still promised to veto it. Well, I think we should still pass it and let him explain to the American people why he favors ``death'' taxes that hurt our small business and rural communities. 
   To his credit, the President did sign into law some death tax relief in 1997 as part of the Taxpayer Relief Act. Of course, we had to lead him kicking and screaming to the signing ceremony. And this came on the heels of his vetoing stronger death tax relief in the 1995 balanced budget bill. Then later he vetoed death tax relief in last year's tax bill. 
   So who knows what he will actually do in the end. We should give him the chance to decide once and for all if he wants to help us repeal the death tax. Maybe, like Paul on the road to Damascus, he wills see the light. After all, as one senior House Democrat noted several years ago: ``We've learned that if you don't like the President's position on the issue, all you have to do is to wait for a few days for him to change his mind.' 
   Mr. President, surveys have consistently shown that death tax repeal is popular with Americans--70 to 80 percent usually favor it in opinion polls. It is popular for the reasons I have laid out, but the most compelling reason is a moral one. After the death of a loved one, when families are grieving, Americans just do not believe that they, or anyone else, should have to talk to the undertaker and tax man on the same day. It's just not right. 
   Since 1980, over 20 states have repealed their state death taxes, and it's time the federal government followed suit and learned a lesson from the states. It's time to kill the death tax, and I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000517</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I would like to return to the underlying bill, the MILCON bill. 
   I rise to speak in support of the Byrd-Warner Kosovo amendment that was included in this measure by a vote of 23-3 by the members of the Appropriations Committee. 
   The committee got it right. It is time for Congress to exercise its constitutional authority and its constitutional responsibility to address the basic policy issues involved in the deployment of U.S. ground forces in Kosovo. 
   More than 5,900 U.S. troops are currently participating in the NATO peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, despite the fact that Congress has never authorized--or even formally debated--U.S. involvement in Kosovo since the Senate, on March 23, 1999, authorized airstrikes against Yugoslavia. 
   We need a plan. We need a policy. We need an exit strategy. And, right now, we have none of these. 
   I remember very distinctly, back in 1995, when I was serving in the House of Representatives and we passed, with bipartisan support, a resolution calling  on the President to obtain congressional authorization before deploying troops to Bosnia. 
   That resolution passed by a vote of 315-103. 
   Despite that vote, President Clinton went ahead with a large-scale and long-term deployment of tens of thousands of our troops to Bosnia without congressional approval or any meaningful debate. 
   Our concern then was the fact that there was no well defined mission--no exit strategy--no plan. 
   We were given assurances that we wouldn't be there long. Our troops would be brought home in a year or two. But now, here we are five years down the pike and our troops are still there. There is no end in sight. No plan. No exit strategy. 
   The same thing is happening in Kosovo. 
   We did our part in Kosovo. We bore the brunt of the costs and the risks involved in the air war over Kosovo. It was U.S. pilots and U.S. planes that forced the Yugoslav withdrawal from Kosovo that allowed for the deployment of the U.N. peacekeeping forces. 
   We have done our part. 
   I firmly believe that it is time for the European Community to live up to their responsibilities. Kosovo is in their back yard. Our European allies should assume more of the responsibility for peacekeeping. 
   I believe that there is no justification for U.S. ground forces being placed in the middle of age old feuds and animosities. 
   I believe we should never have sent U.S. ground forces into Kosovo. And I believe that we should bring our fighting men and women back home. 
   I do not believe that we should drift along without a policy--without a plan--without an exit strategy--in Kosovo as we have been doing in Bosnia. 
   The Byrd-Warner amendment does not really go as far as I would like to go. It does not say, ``We are going Home.'' 
   It simply says that if the President of the United States can make a case for keeping troops in Kosovo--let him do it. 
   The Byrd-Warner amendment is much more cautious and conservative than I would like us to be. 
   But it would require the President to develop a plan to turn the ground combat troop element of the Kosovo peacekeeping operation over to the Europeans by July 1, in the year 2001. 
   It does not require the immediate withdrawal of U.S. troops. It would terminate funding for the continued deployment of U.S. ground combat troops in Kosovo after July 1, of next year, unless the President seeks and receives congressional authorization to continue that deployment. 
   It gives the President a year's notice. It gives the European Community a year's notice. 
   This amendment basically says to the President--not only our current President but whoever replaces him as well--develop a plan to get us out, or come before Congress and the American people and explain to us why it is the Nation's interest to stay in. 
   This amendment simply says it is time to quit drifting along, it is time to quit putting the lives of our young people on the line without any clear mission, without any clear policy, without any plan. 
   It is our responsibility. It is Congress' responsibility to conduct oversight of the policies that result in the deployment of U.S. troops abroad. It is time we lived up to that responsibility and the Byrd-Warner amendment does just that. 
   It simply says, ``Drift'' is not a valid substitute for a national defense policy. 
   And it tells the President to give us a policy, explain it, convince the American people and the U.S. Congress that it is in our national interest to keep ground troops in Kosovo--or bring our troops home. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this reasonable and responsible amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000510</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the conference report to H.R. 434, the Africa/CBI bill. 
   This is a bad proposal, and it should not become law. In fact, the only good thing that I can say about it is that it's not as bad as it could have been. Still, it should not pass. 
   In recent years, we have lost over 5,000 textile jobs in southern Kentucky. Nationwide, we have lost over 100,000 textile jobs since NAFTA. They're gone. They're not coming back. 
   Now there aren't many left, and I am not going to support any legislation that I believe is going to ship the rest of these jobs overseas. 
   But, that's just what this bill would do. It would suspend quotas and duties on clothing made from many African-made fabrics. It calls for duty-free imports of T-shirts and fabric from the Caribbean. 
   In short, it's going to make it cheaper and more enticing for the textile companies to locate overseas, where labor costs are lower, and to take jobs with them. 
   The bill also extends duty-free treatment to other ``import sensitive'' items like certain types of watches, electronic articles, steel products, footwear, handbags, luggage, and glass products. 
   I respect the good intentions of those who support this bill in wanting to help poor countries in Africa and the Caribbean. But I don't think we should do that at the expense of American workers and their jobs. 
   Furthermore, this bill simply looks like a one-way street to me. It makes it easier for African and Caribbean nations to import products to the United States, but as far as I can tell it doesn't do much for the United States. 
   Of course, our economy is a lot bigger and stronger than all of their's put together, but that doesn't mean we just give away part of the store for free. 
   Mr. President, I believe strongly in free trade. I have long supported fast-track legislation to give the President broad authority to negotiate trade agreements. And I voted for the GATT legislation the last time it came before Congress. 
   But I also believe in fair trade, and this bill isn't fair. 
   As I said earlier, this bill is bad but it is not as bad as it could have been. When Congress first started working on this bill over 5 years ago, it was intended to provide NAFTA-like treatment to imports from Caribbean nations. Fortunately, this bill doesn't go that far. 
   But, it still follows the same flawed concepts that are behind NAFTA and have driven at least 7,000 Kentucky jobs south to Mexico. 
   Supporters of this bill say that economic growth and investment in African and Caribbean nations will benefit us in terms of increased exports and increased domestic employment because of those exports. 
   Of course we want healthy economies in this area to help strengthen the growth and stability of democracy. But it doesn't make sense to sacrifice a United States industry to do it. 
   As I pointed out on the Senate floor last year, the Caribbean Basin apparel and textile business is already booming. Last year, apparel and textile exports from the Caribbean and Central America to the United States grew 9 percent, double that of the United States economy. 
   Passing this bill simply rewards the U.S. companies that have already moved offshore, and entices others to do the same. In the process, we stand to lose another 1.2 million jobs in the apparel and textile industry. 
   We keep talking about creating a level playing field when it comes to fair trade. But this bill pulls the field right out from under U.S. industries which have already had an uphill fight just to stay alive. 
   This is a flawed bill and I'm going to vote against it. I just don't see where it's in our interest to make it easier for other countries to compete with American industries, and to entice U.S. companies to relocate abroad. 
   This bill is not fair to the American worker. 
   I urge my colleagues to oppose it and any amendments that even try to make it better. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, we have been debating the future of the Federal role in education. Specifically, we are looking at who will take the lead role in educating our children. Will it be the Federal bureaucrats in Washington, DC, or will it be the teachers and parents who are closer to the children and understand their needs better? 
   Last week, President Clinton went on an education tour that I think can answer those questions. His tour took him to four cities: Davenport, IA; St. Paul, MN; Columbus, OH; and Owensboro, in my home State of Kentucky. 
   That is, we think the President visited Owensboro. I am one Kentuckian who is not sure the President ever made it there. The President's web site has something of a travelogue on his trip, the supposed trip the President made, that says President Clinton's school reform tour started in Owensboro, KY. Look closer and one will notice something is wrong. Apparently, Owensboro is not in Kentucky anymore. In fact, it looks like Kentucky isn't Kentucky anymore; it has moved to Tennessee. I find this terribly interesting. 
   We Kentuckians have nothing against Tennessee except, of course, when the Wildcats are playing the Volunteers. 
   We like Owensboro in Kentucky, right where it is. 
   While he was in Owensboro, if that is where he really was, the President spoke about his Federal programs that require States to spend Federal money on Washington's priorities. The President thinks this is a good approach. When I look at the President's map that approach troubles me, and it is not just because the White House cannot tell Kentucky from Tennessee. If you will notice, western Kentucky is no longer there; it has been annexed by Illinois: No more Paducah, no more Mayfield, no more Murray. 
   I have some good news for my friends down there, and I have some good friends down there who have sent me word that they want to stay in Kentucky. I wonder if they know this administration sold them off to Illinois. The truth is, some of us do not know where President Clinton was for sure. We know we have newspaper stories and video clips which report that he was seen in Owensboro plain as day. 
   But, on the other hand, we have the Federal Government, the source of all wisdom, which the President would have us entrust with the education of our children, telling us the President and the entire city of Owensboro, KY, is actually in Tennessee. 
   I trust the teachers and the parents in Owensboro, KY, with the education of their children. They know what is what. 
   When presented with a choice between handing over control of their children's education to the Federal bureaucracy in Washington, DC, or letting those decisions be made by someone who personally knows the names of those children, I trust they will make the right choice. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I will, after I have finished. 
   This administration says they care for the children in Owensboro, KY, but they do not even know their names. Parents and teachers know their names and the needs of their children and students. I trust them. As the Senate continues this debate on this education bill, I urge my colleagues to support education policies that truly return power to the people and away from the Federal bureaucracy. 
   Of course, it is very obvious there is one new Federal program needed, a program that is desperately needed--a geography class for this White House--because, quite literally, this administration cannot quite find Owensboro, KY, on the map. 
   Now I will be glad to yield to the Senator from Massachusetts. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-3-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. That is very accurate. It is also accurate, there are very many other schools, not only in Owensboro but down along the border at Williamsburg and throughout many counties in Kentucky that have improved their educational facilities. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-4-20000509</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I would like to conclude by saying a former colleague of the Senator from Massachusetts is a little struck also, Senator Wendell Ford, because Owensboro happens to be his hometown. It is definitely in Kentucky. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000501</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Madam President, this week we begin the debate on the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, probably the most important Federal program dealing with education in the Nation. 
   The Program needs to be reauthorized and that gives us several options. We can tinker around the edges, make a few changes, put more money in the pot, and maintain the status quo, or we can use this opportunity to reform the program and try to make it better. 
   As far as I am concerned, if you look back over the past 35 years, the choice between these two options is fairly clear. 
   Since 1965, the Federal Government has spent more than $120 billion on title 1, the largest Federal education program at meeting the needs of disadvantaged students. Despite this tremendous amount of money, the performance of disadvantaged students continues to decline--77 percent of children in high-poverty urban schools are reading ``below basic.'' 
   Test scores of 12th graders in math, reading, and writing have remained stagnant or have declined over the last 30 years. Fourth grade students in high-poverty schools remain 2 grade levels behind their peers in low poverty schools in math. In reading, they remain 3 to 4 grades behind. The achievement gap is now widening instead of closing. 
   Half the students from urban school districts fail to graduate on time, if at all. Seven thousand schools are failing according to current accountability standards. Many have been failing for 4 to 6 years, some have been failing for as long as 10 years. These schools continue to receive Federal funds. 
   It is clear that the Federal education effort is failing, and it is equally clear that our 
   schools around the Nation are forced to pay a heavy penalty for the Federal funds they do receive. 
   Burdensome regulations under the current Federal system have a heavy price tag. We keep talking about the need for more teachers but fewer than 50 percent of the personnel employed in 1994 were teachers. Because of unnecessary Federal regulations, administrative staffs continue to grow every year. Compliance with Federal rules and regulations cost States millions of dollars, and millions of man-hours each year. 
   The Federal Government only provides somewhere between 5 and 7 percent of local school funding, but it demands as much as 50 percent of all school paperwork. That means 49 million hours--or 25,000 employees working full time--are spent each year working on redtape and paperwork--not educating children. 
   Based on the facts, it is patently clear that status quo is not enough. We need to reform, we need to overhaul this Federal education program. It is not working the way it is supposed to be. It is not getting the job done. And the bill before us this week does include some major reforms. 
   This bill takes up where the Ed-Flex bill that we passed last year left off. It would increase flexibility and local control, allowing educators and teachers and parents to make the decisions about local education needs rather than Federal bureaucrats. 
   What would best serve the students in Louisville, KY might not be the same thing that is needed in Williamsburg. Individual communities have different needs. Individual school districts differ--and their needs differ. 
   We need to give local educators and parents the freedom and the flexibility to develop local solutions to local needs without handcuffing them to one-size-fits-all solutions designed in Washington. 
   We clearly need to reduce the cost of compliance with Federal regulations so that the money we provide actually makes it to the classrooms instead of being frittered away on paperwork and regulation. We need to let teachers teach, and school administrators and parents design programs that work. This bill does just that in several important ways. Flexibility, accountability, and portability. 
   It includes a 15-State demonstration project called Straight A's which would  give States that choose to participate considerably more flexibility in how they use Federal funds. It would allow States to consolidate up to 12 Federal formula grant programs and integrate that Federal money with State and local funds to serve their children. 
   This bill would also establish ``performance partnerships'' that all the States could participate in. It too, would offer States greater flexibility in how they spend Federal education funds in exchange for accepting new accountability standards. 
   This bill also contains provisions which would exempt small, rural schools with small student populations from several formula grant program requirements and give them the flexibility to target Federal funds so that they best meet school district's needs. But hand in hand with flexibility, there must be accountability. These new programs established in this bill require that in exchange for this added flexibility, the schools must meet certain standards. They must get results. This bill would reward States that close the achievement gap between the highest and lowest performing groups of students. 
   States not the Federal Government, would have to establish specific goals for improving performance of all students, and parents could find out whether their children's schools were meeting those goals because States and local school districts would be 
   required to issue report cards on school performance. We have that in Kentucky, thanks to educational reform. I think parents around the Nation deserve to know which schools are educating children and which are failing. 
   Finally, this bill gives parents an opportunity to do something about it, if their children's school is not getting the job done. It gives them an opportunity to send their children to a different school--one that is getting the job done. This bill creates a demonstration program which will allow States to make title I funds portable--so that the money follows the student. Too many disadvantaged children are trapped in failing schools. This bill would allow children to escape. 
   The bill requires a school district to offer any child enrolled in title I school that has been designated as failing for 2 years, the option of transferring to another higher performing public school. 
   Flexibility, accountability, and portability--these three elements are essential ingredients of the kind of reform that is necessary and all three of them are incorporated in this legislation. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this measure. The status quo is not working. It has proven that red-tape and regulation are not the answer--that more money alone is not the answer. 
   Let's try something new: flexibility to let our teachers teach; accountability to require our schools to get results; and portability that will give parents more control of their children's education. 
   I congratulate Senator JEFFORDS and his staff and the committee for the great work that they have done on this bill. As we debate this legislation over this week, and probably into next, I want everybody to come to the floor and debate the issues that are in this bill because this bill is good for kids' education, and that is what the money we send back to the States should be used for. I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I have an amendment at the desk. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-3-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, this amendment is pretty simple. It says that any entity that receives the entire $1.25 billion loan under this bill must provide to its subscribers all of the local television broadcast signals which are broadcast in that State. 
   Since coming to the Senate I have heard from my constituents about satellite TV more than any other issue. More than impeachment, Social Security, taxes, or anything else. 
   That might sound strange, but I constantly hear from Kentuckians who are unhappy that they can't get local news and local programming. Believe me, when the University of Kentucky is playing basketball, that's a big deal. 
   Kentucky is rural, and a lot of our communities are isolated and hard to reach. Cable isn't an option for them because the cable companies won't come--it's too expensive to wire them. 
   And they often can't get a clear signal with traditional TV antennae because of the geography and landscape of our commonwealth. 
   This has led many Kentuckians to try satellite coverage, but then they often hear more about New York City, Los Angeles, or Chicago. 
   With my amendment, I am trying to make sure Kentuckians and other Americans living in rural areas get local news and local programming. In Kentucky, this problem is made even worse because much of our State is dominated by media markets from surrounding States, making it even harder to get local programming. 
   I live in northern Kentucky near Cincinnati, OH. It is frustrating to constantly hear Ohio news and not be able to find out what is happening in Louisville, Lexington, Paducah, or Bowling Green. 
   In talking with the industry, the satellite technology soon is going to allow for spot beaming to provide local-to-local coverage for everyone. I think that is great. I encourage them to keep pushing forward. I also want to make sure that if anyone gets the full value of this loan, then they have to provide local programming for local areas. These loans are going to be guaranteed 80 percent by the Federal Government and taxpayers in Kentucky and other rural States deserve to be considered. 
   I am simply trying to look out for my constituents. I have a feeling there are other rural States in the same boat. I bet they are as frustrated as we are when they can learn about New York City politics or the Chicago Cubs baseball or the latest news in neighboring States but they cannot find out what is going on in their own backyards. 
   I urge adoption of this amendment. I want to make sure Kentuckians, and all others in rural States who do not have local broadcasts in their own State, can receive local news from their State, not just news from an adjoining State. I urge passage of the amendment. 
   I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask for the yeas and nays on the Bunning amendment. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I ask unanimous consent that the prior order to allow Senator BYRD to follow Senator GRAMS be vitiated. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise, first of all, to support S. 2097, the LOCAL TV Act of 2000. 
   I ask unanimous consent to withdraw the amendment I had previously offered and on which the yeas and nays were ordered. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-3-20000330</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I want to make a few comments about the mistaken identity by the National Association of Broadcasters in relationship to my amendment. What we have tried to do, and what this bill has successfully done, is allow most of the areas in the United States to have access to dish or satellite television. But there are areas that have been excluded. I will give you an example of some of those. 
   Areas are excluded when most of the television stations that are received instate are based out of the State. I use Kentucky as an example. If you want to hear something in Kentucky and you don't live in Louisville or Lexington, or a couple of other smaller cities, such as Bowling Green and Paducah, you must get your television news, sports, entertainment, and everything, from out of State, a different ADI, such as Cincinnati; Charleston-Huntington, WV; Knoxville, TN; Nashville, TN; Evansville, IN; and on and on and on. 
   This bill does not adequately cover those areas because it says generally if you are brought in an ADI area that is covered by an out-of-State television station, you must accept that. There can be exceptions. But, living in Kentucky, I surely don't want to have to watch Atlanta television, or Atlanta news, or, for that matter, Cleveland, OH, news on my satellite dish. I know most Kentuckians don't want that. 
   Of all the issues that have come before the Senate, this has been the one on which I have received the most information. I received a paper put out  by the National Association of Broadcasters that criticized my amendment to allow all or at least require one of the local markets in Kentucky to carry it on the dish or on the satellite. It said it ``destroys the network affiliation relationship.'' But that is hogwash. It does not destroy that. It just means that the people in certain areas don't want to watch New York television as the thing they get on their dish. If they are only going to go down to the first 60 major markets in this country, that is what we are going to have to do in many of the rural areas. 
   This loan guarantee program that we have will cover an awful lot of other areas. But South Dakota, North Dakota, Wyoming, Montana, and plenty of areas in this country do not have major markets and don't carry all four--ABC, NBC, CBS, and FOX--and will no doubt not have the coverage they might like to have in their area. 
   ``Undermines localism'' is another thing the National Association of Broadcasters has said about the amendment I just withdrew. 
   Am I going to watch a local station from Paducah and go down there and buy something that has been advertised on a Paducah station if it is carried on my dish? Of course not. I am going to go to my local store, or wherever it might be, and buy the exact same thing that is available in my local area. I can pick up a local station out of Cincinnati with rabbit ears. I don't need a dish for that. 
   It ``creates two classes of satellite viewers''--no, it doesn't. We all pay almost the same amount for basic satellite television. My amendment did not change that. 
   ``Flies in the face of both copyright and communication laws'' --not being a lawyer, and having dealt only with the prior law we passed last year, I know full well it doesn't violate any of those provisions in that law we had on the floor of the Senate. 
   Last, but not least, it says, ``it creates a huge regulatory disparity.'' No other multichannel video provider has nearly such an extensive ``must carry'' requirement. We don't want them to carry every station in Kentucky. We want them to carry one that has four of the major networks. That is what we want. 
   We will work it out later. I have talked with Senator BURNS, who is most expert on this, and I hope to work with Senator MCCAIN on Commerce to get this done. This is not the time nor the place to fight this fight. I will fight it another day at a later date. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000321</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5, the Senior Citizens Freedom to Work Act, and the repeal of the Social Security earnings limit. 
   This is a day that many of us have worked toward for a long time, and the sooner we can pass this bill and send it in to the President, the better. Our seniors deserve it. 
   I think by now we all know how the earnings limit works. It penalizes seniors between 65 and 70 who receive Social Security benefits but also continue working. For every $3 they earn over the earnings limit, they lose $1 in benefits. Under current law, in 2000 the limit is $17,000. It rises to $25,000 next year, $30,000 in 2002, and with inflation after that. 
   The earnings limit is a Depression era relic whose time has come and long gone. It first became law back in the 1930's when Social Security was started, and was passed by Congress as a way to encourage seniors to retire so that their jobs could be taken by younger, unemployed workers. 
   At a time when our economy was fighting for its life, and unemployment was close to 25 percent, an earnings limit might have seemed like a good idea. Now when unemployment is threatening to dip below 4 percent and many of our nation's employers are  clamoring for more workers, it's clear that the earnings limit has outlived whatever usefulness it once might have had. 
   From time to time over the years, Congress has looked at changing the earnings limit. In fact, several times we did tweak it here and there by raising the income level. But, like a vampire, the earning limit has been hard to kill altogether--it continued to threaten seniors and their livelihoods. 
   Now we have the opportunity to get rid of the earnings limit altogether. I say that it's time to drive a stake through the heart of the earnings limit once and for all. 
   Mr. President, I was privileged to serve in the other body as the chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee for 4 years, and before that as the Ranking Member for 4 years. It was my bill that we passed in the 104th Congress that lifted the earnings limit to its current level of $30,000 from what was then $11,250. 
   If we could have repealed it altogether, we would have. But the budget landscape was different back then. We were still looking at huge deficits, and we were using Social Security 
   surpluses to finance general government programs. 
   Now things are different. We have budget surpluses across the board, and we can focus on doing the right thing for seniors irrespective of other spending and tax needs. Our economic prosperity has handed us a golden opportunity to repeal the earnings limit. Times have changed for the better. 
   I know there are others in Senate who have worked on this issue for years. But, for my colleagues who have not lived with legislation to repeal the earnings limit as long as some of us, let me just briefly describe for them what it has been like over the past 14 years for those of us who have been trying to pass legislation. 
   In 1987, those of us who had just been elected to the House for the 100th Congress adopted as a project the repeal of the earnings limit. And at least 11 bills were introduced in Congress to lift or repeal the limit altogether, and we worked the issue hard. But, nothing happened. It was like banging your head against a wall. 
   Then during the 101st Congress, then-Congressman Denny Hastert, and another 100th congressional class member, introduced a bill to repeal the limit and got 267 cosponsors in the House. Again, nothing happened. 
   In the 102d Congress, we managed to get 278 supporters in the House to support our bill to lift the earnings limit. We talked up the issue constantly. Still, nothing. 
   So we kept plugging along, and once again in the 103d Congress, we introduced a bill and signed up over a majority of the House--225 Members--on our legislation. But, guess what? Nothing happened. 
   Then something did happen. In 1994, Republicans took control of Congress. And in 1995, as part of the Contract with America, we passed legislation to lift the earnings limit to its current annual level of $30,000. This was one of the most popular bills we passed that year, and I was proud to be the lead sponsor. 
   But, we still weren't finished because this proposal was part of larger legislation that was vetoed by President Clinton as part of his government shutdown strategy. He said he liked the earnings limit repeal, but he vetoed the bill anyway. 
   So we were back at Square One. But, we took the President at his word that he liked the earnings limit repeal, so after the veto we quickly passed a stand-alone bill in the House to increase the earnings limit in late 1995. The next March, we included it in must-pass legislation to lift the Federal Government's debt ceiling, and it was signed into law. 
   In all, it took almost 10 years to raise the earnings limit, so I hope my colleagues keep this in mind now that we have a chance to act quickly to get rid of the limit altogether. 
   Mr. President, people are living longer and longer. And many of them want to work after they turn 65. They want to work longer, and they can do more. Why on earth should we penalize them--by taking benefits they have already paid for--for doing that?! It just doesn't make sense to pay them with one hand, and to rob them with the other. 
   The average life expectancy for women in America is almost 80 now. For men, it's getting close to 75. That's a big increase from must a few decades ago when we passed Social Security and the earnings limit. 
   Now, many seniors want, and need, to work for income after they officially retire. Social Security and pensions sometimes aren't enough, and if seniors want to feather their nests with a salary, more power to them. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for this bill. Not only will seniors thank us, we can take heart in knowing that the Congressional Budget Office tells us that we will even save $700 million in Social Security administrative costs by repealing the earnings limit. There are 800 employees at SSA who help administer the earnings limit. After this bill becomes law, they will be freed to perform other tasks for the Social Security Administration. 
   We have the opportunity to do away with the earnings limit altogether, and I say ``the sooner the better.'' I can't think of one good reason not to pass this bill immediately, and get it down to the White House as soon as possible. It's good policy, it's good politics and it's the right thing to do for our seniors and our country. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000308</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the nominations of Richard Paez and Marsha Berzon to sit on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   There are serious problems with the 9th Circuit. It has become a renegade Circuit, far out of the mainstream of modern American jurisprudence, and I am afraid that if these nominees are confirmed, they will only make a bad situation worse. 
   Over the past six years, the 9th Circuit has been overturned 86% of the time by the U.S. Supreme Court, a terrible record. During this period, the Supreme Court has reviewed 99 decisions from the 9th Circuit, and overturned 85 of those decisions. During the current session, the 9th Circuit has been overturned in all of the 7 cases reviewed by the Supreme Court, and in one term--1996-97--27 of 28 decisions were overturned, including 17 by unanimous votes. 
   This is the worst record of any circuit, and is especially troubling given the size and influence of the 9th Circuit. It covers almost 40% of the country, and 50 million Americans--20 million more than any other circuit. The fact that the 9th Circuit has been slipping toward judicial extremism is no laughing matter, and directly affects a large part of our nation and almost one-fifth of our citizens. 
   The main reason for the judicial imbalance on the 9th Circuit is that Democratic appointees currently comprise 15 of the 22 positions on the 9th Circuit, 10 of whom were appointed by President Clinton. I do not begrudge President Clinton his appointees; he is the President, and has the constitutional right and responsibility to fill the federal bench. But the 9th Circuit has become lopsided with activist judges that has helped push it far out of the judicial mainstream. The circuit cries out for balance. 
   Confirming Richard Paez and Marsha Berzon to the 9th Circuit would only exacerbate its problems. Mr. President, I do not know the nominees and I have nothing against them. Their records show that they have long legal backgrounds, and deserve a final vote on their nominations. But, the record also shows that they both tilt far too left in their judicial views and would not help to restore balance or judicial sensibilities to the 9th Circuit. 
   Ms. Berzon has worked as the general counsel of the AFL-CIO for over a decade, and was long active with the ACLU. At least one conservative group has described her as the ``worst judicial nomination President Clinton has ever made.'' Mr. President, Ms. Berzon is entitled to her views and I am not going to criticize her for her personal beliefs. But looking at her past and the causes which she has pushed show that, if confirmed, she is not going to help steer the 9th Circuit toward the judicial mainstream. 
   As for Judge Paez, he currently sits on the federal district court in the 9th Circuit, and his nomination is opposed by over 300 grassroots conservative organizations that are troubled by his judicial activism. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, have even taken the unusual step of opposing his nomination because of their concerns over some of his past decisions, arguing that he has pursued an agenda that ``has the potential to cause significant disruption in U.S. and world markets.'' Mr. President, business groups usually do not become involved in judicial nominations, and when they do it should make us wonder. 
   Even the Washington Post editorial page, no friend of conservative causes, has cautioned that opposition to Judge Paez ``is not entirely frivolous'', and points to past public remarks by Judge Paez that show how ``sympathetic'' he is to activist, judicial thinking. 
   Mr. President, since coming to the Senate I have voted for some of President Clinton's judicial nominees, and I have opposed several. Yesterday, in fact, I voted to confirm Julio Fuente to sit on the Third Circuit. But confirming Richard Paez and Marsha Berzon to sit on the 9th Circuit would be a mistake, and would directly affect 50 million Americans. The 9th Circuit has serious problems, and confirming these nominations are not going to fix those problems. Consequently, I am going to oppose them. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-20000131</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, this morning the Senate will be in a period of morning business until 2 p.m. Following morning business, the Senate will resume debate on the bankruptcy reform bill under the previous order. There are a few amendments remaining, and those Senators who have amendments under the agreement are encouraged to work with the bill managers on a time to debate their amendments. As previously announced, votes ordered with respect to the bankruptcy legislation will be stacked to occur on Tuesday at a time to be determined. 
   In an effort to complete the bankruptcy bill, Senators may expect votes throughout the day on Tuesday and Wednesday. Following completion of the bankruptcy bill, the Senate is expected to begin consideration of the nuclear waste legislation. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. I note the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in strong support of the work incentives and ticket to work legislation. This is a day I have looked forward to for a long time. 
   It is a great day for the disabled in America. By passing this legislation, we are going to make it easier for them to return to work and become self-sufficient. We are going to give those who want to try to return to work the tools they need to support themselves and to escape from the dependency on a monthly Government check. 
   For years, the Social Security disability program has provided a vital safety net to assist those who fall on hard times and need help when they become sick or injured and cannot support themselves. It has done this job well. But for the many disabled people who have wanted to return to work and could be able to work, the disability program has not worked as well. It has not properly equipped them to return to the workforce. It has not given them the tools they need to move off the disability rolls. In fact, fewer than 1 percent of those who go on the disability rolls--that is currently 4.5 million people--never return to work because the program does not provide an adequate support network or resources for these Americans to move back into the workforce. 
   For these disabled people, the disability program has become a black hole. Once they fall in, they cannot escape. The bill we hope to pass today or tomorrow finally gives these Americans new hope, the ladder they need to climb out of that hole. The Ticket To Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act modernizes the disability program and moves it into the modern age and provides more options for the disabled who want to work. It provides them with a ticket that can be used to help acquire skills to reenter the workforce. 
   Under the old system, these workers had only one option if they wanted to return to work; they had to work through their State vocational rehabilitation programs. This option will still be open to them, but now they will also be able to use their ``ticket'' to go to other provider networks and employers to obtain skills and jobs. In short, the ``ticket'' expands opportunity for training and choices for rehabilitation for the disabled, and gives them the ability to tap into the power of the free market. 
   This legislation also addresses the most pressing need for most of those who want to leave the disability rolls and return to work--the availability of adequate health care. Many of these potential workers continue to require a high degree of medical care even after they return to work. Obtaining this care--and paying for it--is often a high hurdle to cross, especially for those who move back to the workplace in entry and lower-level positions. Under the bill we are dealing with today, we expand continued Medicare coverage for the disabled and also increase Medicaid funding to the States to help them address the problems. 
   All in all, this bill is win-win. It is a winner for the disabled community and a winner for the American taxpayers and all of us who pay Social Security taxes. The Congressional Budget Office tells us that for every 1 percent of disability recipients who return to work, the Social Security disability trust fund saves $3 billion. That is serious money. If this legislation only works partly as well as we expect, it will make a tremendous difference for the future of the trust fund and our ability to look after the neediest Americans. 
   It's been almost 5 years since Congress began looking into problems with the disability program. In 1995, when I was the chairman of the House Social Security Subcommittee, we began holding hearings on possible changes we could make to Social Security to help the disabled. After those hearings, former Congresswoman Barbara Kenelley and myself wrote reform legislation that passed in the House in 1998 by a vote of 410-1. While my bill died in the Senate last year because Senator KENNEDY put a hold on my bill and some shenanigans by the White House, it is at the core of the legislation we are passing today and I am very proud of that. We have worked very hard to make sure the ticket-to-work portion of this reflects the bill that passed the House last year 410-1. 
   This is a good bill, and I urge my colleagues to support it. It will truly make a difference for many Americans who need it the most, and I think it will stand as one of the most significant pieces of legislation to pass during this Congress. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991118</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to support the Byrd amendment. 
   We are scrambling around right here in the U.S. Senate to pass a stopgap spending bill to keep from shutting down a major portion of the Federal Government. 
   So, it is very fitting that we add an amendment to that stopgap spending bill that would help us keep a Federal judge from shutting down the coal mining industry in West Virginia and possibly other States like Kentucky as well. 
   This is a matter of survival for many of our coal mines. It is essential that we act now to prevent unnecessary damage to the industry--to prevent unnecessary unemployment--and to prevent unnecessary economic devastation in areas which have already been bypassed by the economic boom times that have blessed much of the Nation. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991104</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I thank Chairman GRAMM.  
   Mr. President, this is an historic occasion, and I am very happy to be a part of it. Today we are going to finally, at long last, pass financial modernization legislation that brings the financial industry into the 20th century and prepares it for the 21st century. When I first came to Congress nearly 13 years ago, this was one of the first major issues I worked on. I served on the Banking Committee in the House back then, and in 1988, we passed out of committee a financial modernization bill. But that bill never made it to the House floor. So it has been a long process getting to this point. 
   There have been many times when I did not believe we would ever make it. But I am very happy to see this day come, and I am very proud to be a part of it. Those of us who served on this Conference Committee have labored to bring a good bill to the floor today-- a conference report that knocks down barriers, gives consumers more options and cheaper services, protects the little guys, and provides regulatory relief. We have achieved all these goals in this measure. There has never been a question about the need to modernize our depression-era financial laws. If we expect our financial industries to be able to compete in the world market in the next century, modernization of our laws is essential. I think everyone has recognized that all along. It was simply a question of finding a suitable blueprint for the modernization process that everyone could find acceptable, and I think we accomplished that with this measure. Admittedly, along the way this year, we had some big differences to work out. For instances, I was very happy the Federal Reserve and the Department of Treasury were able to work out a compromise on the Op-sub issue. I believe this compromise was essential to getting an agreement on the final bill and allowing us to finally repeal Glass-Steagall. 
   We also wrestled long and hard on the Community Reinvestment Act provisions. In this bill today we bring much-needed sunshine to the CRA process and ensure that the money which banks are sending to groups for low-income housing development, goes for just that, low-income housing. 
   We also give some much-needed regulatory relief to small banks on CRA. These banks are already involved in their communities. If they did not lend in their neighborhoods, they would not survive. With this provision, small bankers will spend less time doing Federal paper work and more time lending in their neighborhoods, both rural and urban. I would have liked to do more to reduce the CRA burden on small banks but we did the best we could. We were also able to ensure that we protected the small-town insurance salesmen and stockbrokers. We make sure that they have a level playing field and will be able to offer their customers more services at better prices. And we also dealt with a new issue that emerged in recent months--the issue of privacy. I know some of my colleagues believe this bill is inadequate as far as the provisions on financial privacy go. 
   I certainly understand their concerns but this bill does give consumers federal privacy protection that they have not previously enjoyed. Under provisions of this bill, consumers will be able to opt-out of disclosure of their financial information to third parties. This bill does not go as far as some would like,--but it is a start and it does recognize the importance of the privacy issue. Overall, I believe we came to an agreement on a balanced bill that creates a level playing field and enhances competition for the financial industries. It protects the safety and soundness of our financial institutions and gives consumers better products at lower prices. 
   It is crucial that we do pass this measure as we prepare to enter the new millennium. In this new age of the global marketplace our financial firms must be able to compete. This bill will go a long way toward allowing them to compete, but not at the expense of our local bankers, brokers, agents, and customers. I urge my colleagues to vote for it--it is a good bill. 
   Finally, I would like to commend Chairman GRAMM and his fine staff for all of their hard work. We certainly would not have this bill without Chairman GRAMM's tireless efforts. He and his staff spent countless hours completing this bill which I believe will be passed with overwhelming bipartisan support and will be signed by the President. 
   Chairman GRAMM did an outstanding job, and I thank everybody else on the conference committee and in the Senate. I urge support of this bill and its passage today. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991026</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I believe strongly in free trade. I believe in the productivity of the American worker. I believe in American ingenuity and technology and I believe that, if we  eliminate the barriers, our industry and our workers can compete effectively with anyone in the world. 
   I have always supported fast-track legislation to give the executive branch the freedom to negotiate trade agreements with other nations. 
   But back in 1993, despite my inclination to support free trade, I wrestled long and hard with the facts and the figures and I determined that NAFTA--the North American Free Trade Agreement--was not a good agreement for us. 
   It was a hard vote for me--in 1993--but I ended up voting against NAFTA. I was convinced that it would indeed cost this Nation jobs. 
   Unfortunately, time and the trade statistics have proven me right. NAFTA was a bad agreement. Since the implementation of NAFTA, we have managed to turn a trade surplus with Mexico of $1.7 billion a year into a trade deficit that, this year, will exceed $20 billion. 
   The giant sucking sound has been heard in Kentucky--5,000 jobs from the apparel industry--sucked out of the State and the Nation. Thousands of appliance manufacturing jobs have drifted south to Mexico. At least 7,000 Kentucky jobs are gone. 
   In particular, the apparel and textile industries have been devastated. In the last 56 months--since the implementation of NAFTA, the apparel industry has lost 305,000 jobs, and the textile industry has lost 125,000 jobs. 
   They are just gone, disappeared. 
   Now, we are being asked to expand portions of this agreement to include the other Caribbean and Central American countries--and to provide new trade preferences for the 48 countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. 
   Basically, we are being asked to take a failed policy--NAFTA--and expand it dramatically. That makes absolutely no sense at all. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote against this expansion of NAFTA and the guaranteed loss of additional U.S. jobs. 
   The CBI parity portion of this legislation is based on the premise that we need to spur economic growth in the Caribbean and Central America. The same arguments are used in favor of this bill that were used in support of NAFTA. 
   Supporters say that economic growth and investment in our neighbors to the south will benefit us in terms of increased exports and increased domestic employment because of those exports. And that logic is very difficult to dispute--over the long haul. 
   Certainly, healthy economies in the Caribbean and Central American countries would open new export opportunities for U.S. goods and services. Certainly, expanding economies in the area would reduce the pressure of immigration--legal and illegal alike. 
   Certainly we want healthy economies in this area to help strengthen the growth and stability of democracy in our neighborhood. 
   We do need to do everything we can, within reason, to encourage economic growth in the Caribbean. It makes sense. 
   But it doesn't make sense to sacrifice an entire U.S. industry and hundreds of thousands of U.S. jobs to do it. And that is what this bill will do. 
   The Caribbean Basin apparel and textile business is already booming. Last year, apparel and textile exports from the Caribbean and Central America to the United States grew 9 percent, a growth rate double that of the U.S. economy. 
   At $8.4 billion in 1998, textile and apparel exports from the Carribean Basin countries to the United States already exceed the $7.5 billion in textiles and apparel exported to our Nation by Mexico. 
   When it comes to helping expand the economies of the Caribbean countries and Central American countries, the American textile and apparel workers have already given at the office--430,000 jobs have been lost to help fuel this exodus. 
   Expanding NAFTA in this way, at this time, will simply reward the companies that have already left the United States and sent their manufacturing facilities to the Carribean Basin because of lower wages. 
   In the process, we stand to lose another 1.2 million jobs in the apparel and textile industry. 
   Ask the people in Campbellsville, Kentucky if that makes sense to them. 
   It doesn't. 
   The African trade portion of this bill doesn't make much more sense. 
   I think that everyone certainly agrees that we need to encourage economic development in Africa. It is in our long-term best interests to establish strong trade linkages with Africa because it is a huge potential market for U.S. goods. 
   And if this bill simply provided incentives for increased manufacturing and production of African products, I would probably not have any problem with it. 
   But this bill doesn't just open the door for increased trade with Africa--it opens, even wider, the door to a flood of Asian products that could further devastate our domestic textile and apparel industry. So, our good intentions would, in all likelihood benefit Asia much more than Africa. 
   The bill creates a huge new incentive for transshipments of Asian goods through Africa. 
   Transshipment is nothing new. Asian manufacturers have been illegally transshipping goods into the United States through Africa for more than 15 years. 
   Customs has estimated that transshipments from Asia have grown from $500 million in 1985 to $2 billion, and possibly as much as $4 billion a year. Africa has been one of the major transshipment routes into this country. 
   This bill, because it lowers tariff duties dramatically, would create an almost irresistible incentive to cheat even more. 
   And ironically that cheating will actually undermine NAFTA and the Caribbean Basin Initiative which include strict anti-fraud provisions that safeguard our domestic producers to some extent. 
   Because it offers lucrative incentives for Asia to transship and no realistic methods to prevent transshipment, billions of dollars of illegal Asian imports will enter the United States duty free and quota free from Africa in direct competition with NAFTA and Caribbean Basin products. 
   And no matter how good U.S. workers are, they can't compete against Asian imports that are subsidized from fiber production on down. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991021</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, it boggles the mind to think that we are back here again, trying to convince the President that there is no place in this nation for partial-birth abortions. 
   It is hard to believe that we are having to go through this exercise again because this particular procedure is so clearly barbaric. It is such a clear case or genocide. 
   In two Congresses now--during both of which is served in the House of Representatives--Congress has passed a ban of this barbaric procedure only to see the President veto that ban and allow the killing to continue. 
   In both of these Congresses, the House of Representatives voted to override the President's veto--but this body did not. 
   Hopefully, we can change that. If not today--then maybe tomorrow or the next day--the next month--or the next year--because this is such a clear case of human justice--moral justice--and plain old humanity--we cannot ever give up until partial-birth abortions are banned across the land. 
   It is really hard to believe that we have to go through this exercise every Congress because nobody--with a straight face and clear conscience--can stand up and defend this procedure. 
   The only way anyone can justify it is to say that--hey, it doesn't matter--because not that many partial birth abortion are actually performed. They say that partial birth abortions are only utilized in cases when the mother's life is in jeopardy. 
   And we know this just isn't true. We know that some of the most ardent and visible defenders of abortion have actually lied about the numbers. It's not just a few hundred a year--it is thousands. 
   But the numbers really shouldn't make any difference. If it is wrong and inhumane we should ban it--whether it affects one or one million. 
   But misleading facts about the numbers--trying to downplay the prevalence and the frequency of the procedure--are no justification at all. 
   This bill does not ignore the health needs of women. It clearly makes an exception when the life of the mother is jeopardy. This bill clearly says that the ban on partial-birth abortions does not apply when such a procedure is considered necessary to save the life of a mother whose life is endangered by a physical disorder, illness or injury. 
   So, even though many medical experts insist that there is never any medical justification for partial-birth abortion, this bill permits it if the mother's life in jeopardy. 
   No one can deny that partial-birth abortion is cruel. No one can deny that it is patently inhumane. No one can deny that it is grotesque. 
   I urge my colleagues to support this bill--support this ban. 
   It is simply a matter of respect for human life. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991012</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Thank you, Mr. President. I thank Senator HELMS. 
   Mr. President, this whole debate reminds me of what the great philosopher Yogi Berra once said: It is like ``deja vu all over again.'' 
   I thought we pretty well settled this argument years ago--back in the 1970s and the 1980s--when the idea of unilateral disarmament through a nuclear freeze was proposed as the only way to end the nuclear arms race between the United States and Russia. We rejected the nuclear freeze concept. We put national security first. We won the cold  war, not through unilateral disarmament and symbolic gestures but through strength, and we defeated the evil empire. The world is safer and we have been able to substantially reduce the number of nuclear warheads and the threat of nuclear conflict. 
   So it is difficult to understand why this argument is back before the Senate today. It is difficult to understand why a U.S. President is back before us asking us to ratify an agreement which would tie this Nation's hands behind its back and jeopardize our national security. 
   None of us support nuclear war. We are all against nuclear proliferation. But agreeing to forego all future testing of nuclear weapons is not the way to get there. It is a matter of national security, of safety, and of common sense. 
   Because we refused to accept the siren call of the nuclear freeze movement in the 1970s, we won the cold war, and we have subsequently been able to reduce our arsenal of nuclear warheads from 12,000 to 6,000 under the START II treaty. The number is expected to be reduced further to 3,000 warheads by the year 2003. But despite these reductions and this progress, the United States must maintain a reliable nuclear deterrent for the foreseeable future. 
   Although the cold war is over, significant threats to our country still exist. At present, our nuclear capability provides us a deterrent that is critical to our Nation and is relied on as a safety umbrella by most countries around the world. 
   As long as our national security and our own nuclear deterrent rely on the nuclear capability, we must be able to periodically test our existing weapons as necessary to ensure their reliability and their safety. 
   Reliability is essential. If our nuclear weapons are not reliable, they are not much of a credible deterrent, and the nuclear umbrella that we and our allies count on for our mutual defense will have gaping holes in it. 
   We have to face reality. Our nuclear stockpile is aging. Our nuclear inventory is older than it has ever been, and nuclear materials and components degrade in unpredictable ways--in some cases causing the weapons to fail. Without testing, those potential problems will go undetected. Upgrades will not be possible. Reliability will suffer. 
   Safety is also essential. A permanent ban on testing would jeopardize the safety of our nuclear arsenal by preventing us from integrating the most modern advanced safety measures into our weapons. Even now our nuclear arsenal is not as safe as we can make it. Of the nine weapons systems currently on hand, only one employs all of the most modern and secure measures available. Safety modifications of this kind would require testing to make sure they worked as intended. 
   Sure, advocates of this treaty argue there are some other measures of testing a weapon--safety and reliability. The Clinton administration has proposed an ambitious program known as the Stockpile Stewardship Program which would use computer modeling and simulations to detect reliability and safety. However, many of the components of this system are unbuilt and untested. The National Ignition Facility, which is the centerpiece of this program, is not scheduled to be completed until the year 2003. There are already reports that it is years behind schedule. It would be foolhardy to entrust our nuclear security to an unproven program which probably won't even be fully operational by the year 2010. 
   Reliability and safety: There must be certainty; at this point only live testing provides that kind of certainty. 
   This treaty is based on a very noble, well-intentioned goal. There is no question that if the Senate were to ratify this treaty, it would be a grand symbolic gesture, but noble goals and symbolic gestures are no substitute for good policy and hard reality. 
   I have already talked about a couple of reasons why this treaty is not good policy--safety and reliability. But there are a couple of other reasons this treaty fails the hard-reality test, as well: Verification and enforcement. The hard reality is that the United States usually tries to live up to the agreements it signs. If we ratify this treaty, we will live by it; we have no guarantee other nations will be so inclined to follow the letter of the law. 
   Under this treaty, verification would be very difficult and enforcement would be impossible. It has no teeth. It is difficult now to detect nuclear tests with any confidence, and the verification monitoring provisions in this treaty don't add to that confidence level at all. Yes, we could request onsite inspections if we thought someone had been cheating, but that request would have to be approved by a supermajority in the 51-member executive council. In addition, each country under the treaty has the right to declare 50-square-kilometer areas off limits to any inspection. 
   Even if we did catch a cheater, the treaty has almost no teeth--possible trade sanctions. That's it, possible trade sanctions. And we know how difficult it is to maintain multilateral trade sanctions against Iraq, a country that blatantly invaded and looted a neighboring country and which consistently defies international inspection teams. No one can believe we would be more effective at enforcing sanctions against more responsible nations of greater commercial importance such as India and Pakistan. There are no teeth. 
   That brings us back to the hard reality. Would we obey the treaty? Yes, we would obey the treaty because that is the way we are. And others would obey the treaty if it suited their whims of the moment. The hard reality is if we ratify this treaty, we sacrifice our national security, jeopardize the safety and reliability of our nuclear arsenal. And what do we get in return? A noble, symbolic gesture. Nothing more. It is not worth it. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote no. Unilateral disarmament was a bad idea in the 1970s and 1980s; it is a bad idea for the 21st century. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991006</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I voted yesterday to oppose the nominations of Ronnie White to serve as District Court Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, and Raymond C. Fisher to sit on the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   As a newly elected member of the Senate, I am acutely aware of our obligation to confirm judges to sit on the Federal courts who will enforce the law without fear or favor. 
   But, after carefully considering Judge White's record, I am compelled to vote ``no.'' I believe that he has evidenced bias against the death penalty from his seat on the Missouri Supreme Court, even though it is the law in that State. He has voted against the death penalty more than any other judge on that panel, and I am afraid that he would use a lifetime appointment to the Federal bench to push the law in a procriminal direction rather than deferring interpreting the law as written and adhering to the legislative will of the people. 
   Although Judge Fisher has been recognized as ``thoughtful liberal,'' I cannot in good conscience vote to appoint him to serve a lifetime appointment to the Ninth Circuit Court. Over the last decade, the Ninth Circuit has been a fertile breeding ground for liberal judges to advance their activist agenda--a fact evidenced by the Supreme Court's consistent reversal of cases referred to them from the Ninth Circuit--and I am afraid that Judge Fisher would continue this disturbing  trend. Probably more than any other circuit in the America, the views of the Ninth Circuit are unquestionably out of alignment with mainstream America, and I believe the panel badly needs a sense of judicial balance. I do not believe that Judge Fisher would have helped to provide that balance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I want to express my hope that Senators MCCAIN and GORTON will work to include language in the conference report accompanying S. 82, which is of great importance to the Regional Airport Authority of Louisville and Jefferson County, KY. I would like to provide a brief explanation of the need for this provision and what it is intended to accomplish. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. In 1991, the Regional Airport Authority of Louisville and Jefferson County entered into a letter of intent (LOI) with the Federal Aviation Administration for funding from the Airport Improvement Program for an ambitious expansion of the Louisville Airport. The LOI was for $126 million. When the new east runway was completed in 1995 and ready for operation, Louisville was informed that no funds were available in the FAA Facilities and Equipment Account (F&E) to provide an Instrument Landing System (ILS), thus rendering the new runway inoperative. FAA advised Louisville that if they procured the ILS, the FAA would later reimburse them for the expenditure of $5.68 million for the system. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-3-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. We currently have a confusing situation where the FAA has informed Louisville that $4.2 million in funds drawn down against the LOI in 1998 were for reimbursement for the ILS. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-4-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. That is correct. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-5-19991005</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I thank the Senators for their assistance. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990916</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise today to commend a fellow Kentuckian and my friend, William B. Greenwood of Central City, who is completing his highly successful term as president of the Independent Insurance Agents of America (IIAA)--the nation's largest insurance association--later this month in Las Vegas. Bill is president of C.A. Lawton Insurance, an independent insurance agency in Central City. 
   Bill's career as an independent insurance agent has been marked with outstanding contribution and dedication to his clients, community, IIAA, the Independent Insurance Agents of Kentucky, and his independent agent colleagues. 
   Bill began his service to his industry colleagues with the Independent Insurance Agents of Kentucky. He served as president of the State association in 1983, and was named its Insuror of the Year in 1986. He was Kentucky's representative to IIAA's national board of State directors for seven years beginning in 1985. 
   Bill also was very active with IIAA activities before moving into the organization's leadership structure. He was chairman of its communications and membership committees as well as chairman of the future one communications task force. Bill was elected to IIAA's executive committee in 1992 as an at-large member. Since that time, he has exhibited a spirit of tireless dedication to and genuine concern for his 300,000 independent agent colleagues around the country. 
   In addition to his outstanding work with IIAA and the Kentucky association, Bill also is involved with numerous Central City-area community activities. He is a past recipient of the Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Volunteer of the Year Award. He is on the boards of directors for the Leadership Kentucky Foundation, Kentucky Audubon Council Boy Scouts of America, and Central City, Main Street, Inc. 
   In the past, Bill served on the board of directors of the Muhlenberg Community Theatre, the Everly Brothers Foundation, and the Central City Main Street and Redy Downtown Development Corporation. Also, Bill is past president of the Central City Chamber of Commerce and the Central City Lions Club. 
   I laud Bill for leading the Independent Insurance Agents of America with distinction and strong leadership over the past year. Even though Bill will step aside as IIAA president soon, he will remain actively involved with the association because he is a concerned leader and wants to continue helping his colleagues build for the new millennium.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990805</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in strong support on conference report on the Taxpayers Refund and Relief Act of 1999 and urge my colleaguess to support it. I congratulate Senator ROTH and his staff on getting such a great bill to the floor of the Senate. I urge the President of the United States to reconsider his threat to veto it. 
   It is a good bill. It is responsible in its timing. It is responsible in its provisions. And it is definitely responsible to let the American taxpayers keep a little more of their own money. 
   On the basis of fact, it is difficult to dispute the fairness or the timing for a tax cut in general. 
   Federal tax rates are at an all-time, peace-time high, consuming more than 20.6 percent of the Nation's economic output. That is a higher tax rate than any year except 1944 at the height of World War II when Federal taxes consumed 20.9 percent of the gross domestic product. 
   At the same time, we are anticipating record budget surpluses. The economists tell us that over the next 10 years, the Federal Government will take in nearly $3 trillion more than it needs. Even if we set aside $1.9 trillion of that surplus to safeguard Social Security and pay down the public debt, the Federal Government will still have $1 trillion more than it needs over the next 10 years. 
   It is hard to imagine a more opportune or reasonable time to cut taxes. Tax rates are at record highs--budget surpluses are at record highs. What more do you need? 
   In a similar vein, it is difficult to dispute any of the major provisions in this bill on the basis of fairness. It does a lot of good things. 
   It reduces each of the personal income tax rates, which currently range from 15 percent to 39.6 percent by 1 percentage point so that low- and moderate-income taxpayers receive a larger real cut than those in higher income brackets. 
   It reduces the capital gains tax moderately and indexes capital gains to account for inflation. It encourages savings by increasing IRA contribution limits from $2,000 to $5,000. 
   It would eliminate the odious death tax which destroys family businesses and farms. Point by point, it is difficult to portray any of these provisions as radical or unfair. 
   It is also difficult to question the fairness of the bill's provisions which try to eliminate the marriage penalty that exists under current tax law and which forces 20 million married couples to pay about $1,400 a year more in taxes than unmarried couples. 
   In an effort to eliminate this 
   inequity, the Taxpayer Refund Act increases the standard deduction and raises the upper limit of the 14-percent bracket for married couples. 
   The individual provisions in the tax cut bill are reasonable and fair. 
   Still, the President insists that a $792 billion tax cut is irresponsible and reckless. Even though our Republican plan sets aside $1.9 trillion to secure Social Security and pay down the public debt--even though it reserves another $277 billion to pay for Medicare reform or other essential services--even though the tax cuts are phased in slowly over 10 years, the President claims it is reckless and irresponsible. 
   It is easy to understand why. He wants to spend more. 
   He says cutting taxes $792 billion is reckless but he didn't have any qualms about proposing 81 new spending programs that would cost $1.033 trillion in his budget proposal this year. 
   He clearly believes that the money belongs to the Federal Government--not the taxpayers. And he clearly plans to find ways to spend that surplus if given the chance. That is the big question that faces the Nation right now. Whose money is it and is it more responsible to give some of it back to the taxpayers than it is to spend it? 
   I have heard a lot about Federal Reserve Board Chairman, Allen Greenspan's recent testimony before a Senate Committee on which I serve and, admittedly, he was not overly enthusiastic about cutting taxes right now. 
   He would prefer that we use all the budget surplus to pay down the debt. But, he also made it clear that the worst thing we could do is to spend the surplus on new programs. He made it clear that cutting taxes would be preferable to expanding Federal spending. Our tax bill already pays down the debt more than the President's plan and if we don't cut taxes now, make no mistake about it, the President will find plenty of ways to spend the rest of that surplus. 
   This bill simply says that when tax rates are at record highs and the Government has more money than it needs to protect Social Security and Medicare and to pay down the debt, the responsible thing to do is to give some of that money back to the people who pay the taxes. 
   There is nothing reckless about the Republican tax cut. It protects Social Security and Medicare. It reduces the debt more than the President's plan. 
   It reserves several hundred billion to pay for essential services or to pay the debt down even more. The timing is right. The provisions are fair. It simply allows the Nation's taxpayers to keep a little more of their own money. 
   I urge my colleagues to vote for it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990803</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, my home state, the great Commonwealth of Kentucky is known throughout the world for many fine things--fast horses, bluegrass countryside, the best burley tobacco in the world and winning basketball teams. And of course, Kentucky is also known as the home of fine Bourbon whiskey. 
   Bourbon is interwoven through the history, heritage and economy of our Commonwealth. First developed in 1797 by an early settler from Virginia named Elijah Pepper who settled in Versailles, Kentucky and built a still behind the Woodford County Courthouse, Bourbon is a distinctively Kentucky product that still plays an important role in our state's economy. 
   For the past nineteen years, the interests of this deeply rooted Kentucky industry have been served very well by a gentleman with no Kentucky roots of his own: a man from the snowy plains of Minnestoa--Frederick A. Meister. For the past nineteen years, Fred Meister has served as President and CEO of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS). He is planning to retire soon and I wanted to take this opportunity to thank him, on the behalf of the many Kentuckians who are employed by the distillery industry throughout our Commonwealth for a job well done. 
   While the leadership of many Washington trade associations seems to come and go, Fred's tenure at DISCUS stands out as a distinguished exception. For almost two decades, the millions of Americans who choose to drink in moderation could not have had a more zealous advocate. At the same time, Fred and DISCUS have wisely taken a hard line against drunk driving and other forms of reckless drinking. 
   Whether the issue has been taxes, free trade or the First Amendment freedom of distillers to advertise their products on television and radio, Fred has been there making a persuasive case for the spirit industry's legitimate commercial interests. No one has fought harder or more effectively on these issues than Fred Meister. 
   At the same time, Fred and DISCUS long ago recognized that the beverage alcohol industry mut do its part to stop drunk driving and other forms of reckless drinking. Under Fred's leadership, the industry has made great progress in this regard. 
   Under his leadership, DISCUS has successfully developed model legislation, the Drunk Driving Prevention Act, which has encouraged many states to pass life saving laws preventing drunk driving, including a ban on open containers and ``zero tolerance'' for underage consumption. Fred was among the first to call for the establishment of the Presidential Commission on Drunk Driving. Subsequently, he served with distinction on this panel. Under Fred's leadership, DISCUS has maintained and enforced a strict Code of Good Practice governing the advertising and marketing of distilled spirits. In 1991, the majority of the DISCUS companies made a multi-million dollar investment to form an organization known as the Century Council which went on to develop a number of life saving programs aimed at the problems of underage drinking, drunk driving and, most recently, college binge drinking. 
   As Fred Meister steps down from the leadership at the Distilled Spirits Council, he leaves behind him a proud and positive legacy and he leaves behind an industry that is both commercially strong and socially responsible. 
   I know that I can safely speak on the behalf of the thousands of Kentuckians who earn their living in the distilling industry when I say ``Congratulations and thank You'' to Fred Meister for a job well done.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990729</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Taxpayer Refund Act and urge my colleagues to vote for it. 
   I actually prefer the tax bill that was considered and approved in the House of Representatives and I support the conservative substitute tax bill that was offered earlier today. 
   I prefer these alternatives because they cut taxes across the Board which I think is appropriate. They reduce the marriage penalty more adequately which I think is essential. 
   They make further reductions in the capital gains tax which I think is good for the economy. They totally phase out the death tax instead of just reducing it which I think is just a matter of fairness. 
   However, even though I think that the Taxpayer Refund Act could be improved--and I hope that it is improved during conference--it is vitally important that we keep the process moving and send a tax cut bill to conference. 
   During this debate, we've seen a great many charts and graphs outlining all the figures and projections under the Sun. It's almost like watching a Ross Perot commercial. 
   But when we get to the bottom line in this debate, we aren't talking about figures and projections at all. We are talking about two different philosophies of government. 
   We are talking about two different philosophies of who the money really belongs to. 
   Does the money that is generated by the income tax and the payroll tax belong to the people--or does it belong to the Federal Government. That's the argument today. 
   And the differences here are very clear cut and distinct. 
   The President and his supporters believe that the money paid into the Federal treasury belongs to the Government. 
   We are told that over the next 10 years we will have $1.1 trillion more than we need in general revenues to fund the Federal Government. A trillion dollars is a lot of money. 
   But the President and his supporters say that all that money belongs to the Government and that we should hold onto it just in case Congress or the President can find new ways to spend it. 
   I can guarantee that if we let the Government hold onto that money--somebody will find a way to spend it. 
   On the other side of the coin, Republicans say that if taxes are 
   bringing in more money than we need to run the Government, we should give it back to the people so they can determine how to spend it. 
   That's what this debate is all about. Whose money is it? 
   The President and the Democrat leadership say that tax cuts are irresponsible and risky--that they would jeopardize Social Security, Medicare and essential government services. 
   But our budget and our tax bill and our Social Security lockbox proposal which the Democrats here in the Senate keep rejecting all guarantee that the Government cannot touch the Social Security surpluses over the next 10 years. 
   The Republican proposals all clearly protect Social Security--we lock up that money so it can't be spent--so that it reduces the public debt. 
   But the Democrats in this body keep voting against the lock box which would guarantee that Social Security surpluses cannot be spend. So, it is not the Republican tax bill that threatens Social Security. It is Democrat reluctance to make a binding commitment not to spend Social Security surpluses. 
   Yes, something needs to be done to strengthen and protect Medicae--but it is not the Republican tax bill which threatens this important program. 
   Medicare needs systemic reform--we all know that--and it was the President--not the Republicans or the Republican tax bill--who killed the bipartisan commission recommendations which were designed to give us a starting point for real Medicare reform. 
   So, no, this debate is not about Social Security--it is not about Medicare. It is about who the money belongs to. 
   I believe that it belongs to the working Americans who pay the freight. When the projections tell us that we are going to take in over a trillion dollars more than we need, it means that the taxpayers are paying too much and we should give it back. 
   It's that simple. 
   That's what this debate is all about. 
   We have an opportunity today to return some tax money to the taxpayers of this Nation. It is a matter of fairness--it is a matter of honesty--and it is a simple matter of respect. 
   We can protect Social Security and Medicare and we can reduce the public debt and, yes, we can cut taxes at the same time. 
   And we should cut taxes--because, Mr. President, I'm one of those who believe that the money belongs to the people--not the Government. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, our national laboratories have become revolving doors. On the way in, you have billions of dollars from the taxpayers to research and develop the most sophisticated weapons in the world, and on the way out you have all the plans and information any country needs to build a nuclear weapon. 
   Unfortunately, the doors to our labs are still open. While the Department of Energy has made some cosmetic changes in their security procedures, we are still stuck with the same bureaucratic mess that created this problem. 
   There is no accountability. Not one person has stood up and said, ``the buck stops here.''--Not the lab directors--not any of the former Secretaries of Energy--not even the President has taken any responsibility for what occurred at Los Alamos Laboratory.  
   It is clear that our nuclear weapons programs are in desperate need of accountability, leadership, and supervision. The amendment we are debating today will provide these essential ingredients. 
   Mr. President, the Kyl-Domenici-Murkowski amendment, creates a new agency for nuclear stewardship, which will provide clear lines of authority and responsibility within the Department of Energy. It will be managed by an administrator who will be directly responsible for all nuclear weapons production. Finally, someone will be able to say, ``the buck stops here.'' 
   In addition, the amendment will codify an Office of Counterintelligence in the Department of Energy. The Director of this Office will have the power to create preventative programs to make sure this kind of espionage does not occur again. 
   The administration has proposed a number of band-aid type reforms, but none of them get to the heart of the problem. There are too many tangled lines of authority within the Department of Energy, and no one wants to take responsibility. 
   According to the Cox report, ``the PRC's theft of nuclear secrets from our National Weapons Laboratories enabled the PRC to design, develop, and successfully test modern strategic nuclear weapons sooner than would otherwise have been possible.'' 
   Since the Chinese, who sell weapons around the world have these secrets, we can only ask who else may have this information. Iran? Iraq? Syria? North Korea? 
   While it is scary to think about who may have access to our nuclear secrets, it is even more frightening to think that this kind of espionage could still be going on. We need the clear lines of authority and leadership that would be established by the Kyl-Domenici-Murkowski amendment, to close the revolving door. 
   Mr. President, I urge all of my colleagues to vote for cloture and support this important amendment. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-19990720</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I have finished. I thank the Senator. I have completed my statement. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990715</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I rise in opposition to the Kennedy health care bill and in support of the Republican alternative--the Patients' Bill of Rights Plus. 
   Mr. President, when the rhetoric starts heating up, it is often difficult to tell exactly what is going on. 
   However, it has been my experience that quite frequently, the best way to determine where people are headed is to look at where they have been. You can often tell where people are going if you look back to where they are coming from. 
   And, quite honestly, I get a little nervous when I hear people talking about providing a bill of rights for patients that sounds very enticing. Without looking into the facts, I get a little nervous because I know where the supporters of the Kennedy bill have been. 
   I know where the President has been. We know where they are coming from on health care. 
   Where are they coming from? Well, back in 1994, these same people were trying to sell us on Clinton Care--the President's misguided proposal which would have taken away a patient choice and freedom and which would have put the Federal Government in charge of the Nation's entire health care system. 
   Fortunately, that proposal was rejected by Congress and the American people. It failed because it was recognized for what it really was--a big government proposal that would have moved us closer to single-payor, government-run health care system. 
   And the American people made it clear back in 1994 they simply didn't have a great deal of confidence that letting the Federal Government run health care would be any kind of improvement. 
   Now, the debate has changed. We are talking about ``expanding patients' rights.'' And who can be against that? 
   But if you look at the people who are talking the loudest about these new rights, you will see the very same folks who supported Clinton Care--and who have consistently supported single payer, socialization of medicine all along. And that should concern everyone. 
   Have they changed their spots? I don't think so. 
   Be that as it may, even if you ignore the past and simply accept the Kennedy bill as a stand-alone measure that has nothing to do with past congressional efforts to put the Government in charge of health care, there are some very good reasons to oppose it. And there are some equally strong reasons to support the Republican alternative. 
   The reasons to oppose the Kennedy bill are simple. It will increase health care costs. It will increase the number of people who have no health insurance coverage dramatically. And it will seriously threaten our existing system of voluntary employer provided health care insurance. 
   It promises new ``patient rights'' which sound appealing at first blush, but when you look at it a little closer you discover that the costs are awfully high and the only ones who really benefit from those new rights are the lawyers and the bureaucrats. 
   I would like to talk about a couple of the problems that I see with the Kennedy bill and then point out a couple of the reasons that the Republican alternative is better. 
   First is the scope of the Kennedy bill--who will be affected. Today, much of the health care is regulated under the Federal ERISA statute--the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. 
   Today 42 million Americans get health care insurance through their employer as part of a plan that is directly governed by ERISA. 
   But, an even larger number--84 million--get their insurance through health plans that ERISA leaves to State regulation. Under the Kennedy bill, this would change. 
   The scope of the Kennedy bill is so broad that the States would be cut out of health care regulation. Uncle Sam would be in the driver's seat. 
   That's not what we want. One of the reasons the Clinton health bill failed was because Americans were suspicious of the Federal Government making health care decisions. 
   Many of us believe these decisions need to be kept as far from Washington as possible. The States have a role to play. Mr. President, even in Kentucky where our States general assembly has made some mistakes with health care recently, we want to keep working before turning everything over to Uncle Same. 
   So, the scope of this bill is troubling. 
   But even more troubling is the cost of the Kennedy bill. That is what health insurance is all about in the first place--the cost of health care. 
   And cost is certainly the one single health care issue that Kentuckians talk the most to me about. The cost of insurance premiums, prescription drug prices, medical equipment. 
   People are worried about their bottom lines. They are worried about how much is going to come out of their pockets. They want to know if they are going to be able to continue to afford to take care of themselves and their families. 
   For the folks who are worried about costs, the Kennedy bill is definitely the wrong prescription because it will increase costs, it will raise prices and it will swell the number of uninsured American families. 
   The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reports that the Kennedy bill would raise health insurance premiums 6.1 percent above inflation over the next three years. 
   In Kentucky this translates into $190 in higher insurance premiums that families would have to pay each year. 
   The worst part of these higher costs is that they mean fewer Americans will be able to afford health insurance. 
   CBO estimates the Kennedy bill will cost 1.4 million Americans their health insurance.  
   As many as 30,000 Kentuckians could lose their insurance coverage because of the higher costs imposed by the Kennedy bill. 
   According to at least one estimate, all of the new regulations and mandates in the Kennedy bill will cost almost $60 billion. 
   Somebody is going to pay those costs. Insurers are going to pass their costs along to the employers. And the employers will have to make a decision on whether to pass those increases along to their employees. And some of them may decide to drop the health care benefits they currently offer to their employees altogether. 
   So, that's the bottom line. the Kennedy bill of rights will mean that fewer people have health insurance--and those who still have it, will pay a lot more for it. 
   On the other hand, the GOP plan addresses health care quality without significantly raising costs. It would increase costs less than 1 percent. 
   That's a mighty big difference for the 1.4 million Americans who would be priced out of the market by the Kennedy bill, and for the millions of other Americans who would have to pay more out of their pockets for higher premiums. 
   A new bill of rights doesn't help you much if you lose your insurance coverage because you or your employer can't afford the premiums. 
   Our bill doesn't drive up costs, and it won't cause more Americans to lose their coverage because it doesn't have all of the new mandates and new regulations that the Kennedy bill does. 
   In fact, the Republican alternative actually includes provisions to help expand the availability of health insurance coverage and to help reduce the costs of insurance. 
   Our bill makes health insurance premiums 100 percent deductible immediately. That makes health insurance more affordable for 125,000 Kentuckians and millions more across the country who are self-employed. 
   The Republican bill also would lift the cap on the number of medical savings accounts that can be set up. Currently there is a national limit of 750,000. Our bill would allow every American who wants to set up a medical savings account the opportunity to do so. 
   MSAs might not be the right thing for everyone, but they make sense for a lot of families and they can really cut costs for many of them. 
   Our bill also improves on the existing ``flex accounts'' that many employees use to get health insurance coverage through cafeteria plans. Right now, many employees can use flex accounts to help cut medical costs and save money. Our bill would give employees even more flexibility to shift their coverage from one insurer to another and to make sure they can continue to see their own doctor. 
   Our bill contains these provisions to help reduce the costs of health care, and to expand health insurance coverage. The Kennedy bill includes none of them. 
   Over 40 million Americans have no health insurance coverage at all. The last thing we should do here in the Senate is pass legislation that is just going to make that number rise. 
   But that is what will happen if we pass the Kennedy bill. The supporters of this legislation claim that they want to give more rights to patients, that they want to protect Americans from the HMOs and the big insurance companies. 
   But, instead, their bill is an empty promise that would actually give Americans fewer rights. You can't have patient rights to fight your insurer if you can't even afford to buy insurance in the first place. 
   Imposing more regulations and more requirements on employers and insurers might have a gut appeal, but in the end it's not going to fix anything. It's only a placebo--a sugar pill--that turns out just to be an empty promise that won't cure this patient. 
   The next issue I want to address has to do with liability and lawsuits. 
   Everybody has heard the horror stories and a lot of Americans are becoming more and more worried that they are not going to be able to get the care they need because their insurance company refuses to pay for the treatment their doctor recommends. 
   When that happens, the question for patients becomes--what do you do if your insurer disagrees with your doctor? 
   The Kennedy bill's answer to this question is simple--it says sue your HMO or your employer. Sue your insurance company. Go to court and let the lawyers fight it out about your health care. 
   Under current law, patients can already sue their HMO in Federal court, and many of them are doing this. But, the Kennedy bill goes a step further and sets up a litigation lottery by lifting the Federal preemption and making it easier for patients to sue in State courts too. 
   The bill's supporters make a big deal out of liability and say that lawsuits are the best way to hold HMOs and employers accountable for decisions. And at first, suing your HMO--the big bad insurance company--might sound like a good idea, a sort of rough justice. 
   But I don't think anyone really believes that getting lawyers involved and going to court is the best way to obtain better medical care. 
   If your insurance company denies you coverage for a specific problem or a specific treatment, and you need medical care quickly, suing is not a very effective answer. 
   And I don't see how suing an employer about your health plan is going to help make things better. It's just going to make it more expensive, and give employers an incentive not to offer health care to their employees. 
   If you do sue under the Kennedy bill, there is no telling how long you are going to be in court, even if you can afford to pay a lawyer to take the case. And going to court to get a judge to rule on medical decisions isn't going to help a patient get help any more faster. 
   More lawsuits are only going to clog up the courts and increase legal bills, and in the end that is just going to drive up health care cost. 
   According to the General Accounting Office, it takes 33 months--almost three years--to resolve the average medical malpractice claim. 
   Some take much longer, and most patients can't wait that long for medical care. 
   Everyone knows that there are too many lawsuits in America. We hear it all the time. Most of the time in Congress, we are debating changes to the liability rules to cut down on litigation, to keep matters out of the courts. 
   For instance, we just passed the Y2K bill to give businesses and high tech firms more incentives to fix problems before they occur. 
   That's what we should do with health care. It just doesn't make sense to say we are going to improve health care by filing more suits in our courts. Making it easier to sue insurance companies or employers is a knee-jerk, feel-good reaction that isn't going to help anybody get medical care any faster. 
   On the other hand, the Republican bill says that if you are a patient and you think you're not getting a fair shake from your insurer, you can immediately appeal for a speedy internal review of the case. No lawyers, no courtrooms, no legal games. 
   And, after that review, if you think you still aren't being treated fairly, you can demand a quick and timely independent review by outside experts. 
   The Kennedy bill claims to have external reviews too. But the bill's primary focus is on making it easier to sue, and that means the primary arena for external reviews is going to be the courts. 
   The bottom line, Mr. President, patients already can sue their HMOs in Federal court. They have that right today. 
   But instead of encouraging quick resolutions of disputes, the Kennedy bill encourages even more lawsuits in State courts. This will only shift scarce resources from the operating room to the courtroom, and that's the last thing we need. 
   You can't sue yourself healthy. 
   In conclusion, Mr. President, I would like to tell my colleagues about what happened in Kentucky when our State adopted a health care bill that increased regulations, took away patients' freedoms and injected the government further into medical care. It's a living example of what could happen is we passed the Kennedy bill. 
   a couple years ago our general assembly passed a Clinton-lite health care bill. Back then we heard a lot of the same arguments that we do now about the need for more regulations and more government involvement in health care.  
   The proponents argued that the government had to step in to protect patients from insurers and to hold the line on costs. 
   Well guess what happened in Kentucky? We passed a big government health plan with all sorts of new mandates on insurers. The legislation was designed to protect patients, and give them more rights by the power of government intervention. 
   What happened was predictable. The insurance companies fled Kentucky in droves. For a while there were only two insurers who would underwrite individual health plans in our State--Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and State Government. That's it. Everyone else left us high and dry. 
   The number of uninsured Kentuckians rose. Costs increased. Medical care became more expensive and harder to get. 
   Sicne then, our State legislature has been backtracking and paring back those regulations and mandates. And guess what. Insurance is becoming more available again and prices have stabilized. 
   That's the sort of situation we are looking at if the Kennedy plan passes. More regulation, more government in your personal life, higher costs, and worse health care. It happened in Kentucky, and it can happen in the rest of the country if we pass the Kennedy bill. 
   Mr. President, I urge my colleagues to oppose the Kennedy bill. It's the wrong prescription for America. We know that more regulation and more government aren't the answer, but we have to keep fighting this battle. 
   It wasn't the answer in the Clinton health bill, it wasn't the answer when we passed health care reform in Kentucky, and it's not the answer today. 
   If you want higher medical costs, if you want more uninsured Americans, if you want more government rules and fewer choices for individuals, then support the Kennedy bill. 
   But, Mr. President, that's not what we really need. We need more affordable, more available, health insurance. We need a reliable, fast, and fair system of reviews to keep insurance companies honest but we don't need a flood of lawsuits. That is what the Republican bill offers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990701</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to the Lautenburg amendment. 
   We all want to do what we can to fight underage drinking. At first glance this amendment might look like a good idea. Putting the office of national drug control policy and the drug czar on the case sounds like we are really taking action in the fight against underage drinking. 
   I believe that this amendment would actually hurt both the fight against underage drinking as well as our Nation's struggle with illegal drugs. 
   First of all, we're not even sure if the drug czar, General McCaffrey, really wants this amendment. We are hearing rumblings that the administration is against it, but no one seems to know for sure. Until we know, it doesn't make sense to pass the amendment. 
   If General McCaffrey, the man the President has asked to lead the charge in our anti-drug efforts, isn't sure about it, I think we need to be very careful. 
   In addition, we know that the bipartisan coalition for a drug-free America--headed up by Bill Bennett and Mario Cuomo--the group that coordinates efforts with the drug czar and produces most of the Government's antidrug ads, does not support this amendment. 
   Bill Bennett and Mario Cuomo don't agree on much, and when they do we should take notice and listen. 
   Second, passing the amendment and adding underage drinking to the problems the drug czar has to tackle will just distract him from his principal focus--as Senator DORGAN said--the war on illegal drugs. 
   As Senator DORGAN, the ranking member on the subcommittee, pointed out last night, the drug czar's resources are already stretched to the limit. 
   Adding underage drinking to the drug czar's portfolio would only stretch his resources even further, and force him to take on another tough fight. I don't think that's what we want. 
   In fact, we know the Federal Government is already spending hundreds of millions of dollars through the various agencies to fight underage drinking, and the evidence shows we are making progress. 
   Over the past 10 years, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration reports that excessive drinking by underage kids has dropped significantly. 
   The Centers for Disease Control agrees. They report that underage drinking has dropped by more than 50 percent over the past two decades. A study by the National Institute on Drug Abuse on drinking among high school students reports similar progress. 
   Unfortunately, the evidence from the war on drugs is not as good. Over the past 5 years, the Department of Health and Human Services reports that illegal drug use has increased for high school kids. 
   We are turning the tide against underage drinking. What now is the compelling reason to involve the drug czar's office? He already has his hands full with the war on illegal drugs. 
   As I said earlier, it's an idea that sounds good at first, but I don't think anyone has laid out a compelling justification for it. 
   Mr. President, I applaud Senator LAUTENBERG for his fight against underage drinking. It is a fight, as is the war on illegal drugs, that we have to win. But I think he has taken the wrong approach on this amendment. It sounds like a solution in search of a problem. Let's keep fighting underage drinking with the tools we now have in place. They are working. I urge my colleagues to vote against the Lautenberg amendment. 
   I yield back my time. 
   Mr. McCONNELL addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990615</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of S. 331, the Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999. 
   This is the most far-reaching Social Security disability bill to come before the Senate in a generation, and it's going to give thousands of men and women who are trapped in the disability program the tools they need to return to work. 
   While it's not a perfect bill, it's still a significant step forward. 
   Right now there are over 4 1/2 million Americans on disability. Four and a half million, Mr. President. And of this group, less than one-half of 1 percent will return to work. 
   Many of these folks have permanent conditions and need assistance. But, many of these people want to return to work, and can return to work. For them, the disability program has become a black hole that swallows everyone who falls in. With proper training and rehabilitation, many of these people could work. But the disability system is not working for them. 
   Because of problems with the current program, they face too many hurdles, too many disincentives, in trying to return to the workforce. That is a tragedy. 
   Some of us have been fighting for a long time to improve the Social Security Disability Program. When I chaired the House Social Security subcommittee, we held numerous hearings on disability. 
   And we learned there are indeed many, many disabled who want to return to work, and can work. But they're afraid to try. They're afraid to try because returning to work often means losing their health care coverage. 
   Many other disabled workers could return to their jobs if they had the proper training. But because of backlogs and problems in the current vocational rehabilitation system, they have not been able to get the assistance they need. 
   The bill before us today will change things for the better. It removes barriers that discourage the disabled from returning to work. It helps harness the power of the private sector and competition to help provide training for the disabled. And it extends basic health care coverage to help them make the difficult transition back to work. 
   It represents a fundamental, revolutionary change for the disabled community. 
   As an added benefit, this legislation will have money for Social Security--big money. For every 1% of the total number of disabled who return to work, we save $3 billion for Social Security. The legislation before the Senate today has the potential to literally save billions and billions for Social Security. 
   Mr. President, last year, the House did pass my disability bill by a vote of 410-1. Unfortunately, the bill was tied up in the Senate by some shenanigans and it died. That was a tremendous disappointment to me, and to be honest, I didn't think we would be back to talking about a disability bill in the Senate for a long, long time. 
   But we are back here today, and I am proud that the disability provisions in the bill before us largely borrows from my old legislation. The bill's sponsors did make some further changes to their bill at my request that I think improves it, and I appreciate that. 
   But we still have a way to go. And there are several conditions that have to be met for me to support any conference report. 
   The bill has to be fully paid for with other spending reductions. Under the unanimous consent agreement, the conference report has to be fully offset, and contain no new taxes. I intend to stick by that agreement. 
   I also want to see changes that the sponsors negotiated with me on the ticket maintained in the final conference report. I appreciate their working with me, and I think our efforts have produced a better bill. We shouldn't move backward in the conference report. 
   This is a good bill, but it is not perfect. And we still have to hear from the House. But we are making progress. I'm eager to move forward.  
   I urge support for the bill. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I thank the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990607</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Today the Senate will be in a period of morning business from 12 noon to 2 p.m. Following morning business, the Senate will begin consideration of S. 1122, the Department of Defense appropriations bill. Completion of that bill is expected early in the week. Therefore, Senators should be prepared to offer amendments to the bill as early as possible. 
   Further, it is the intention of the majority leader to move to proceed to the Y2K legislation today. It is expected that a cloture motion will be filed on that motion today with a cloture vote to occur on Wednesday at a time to be determined by the majority leader. Tomorrow, it is the intention of the majority leader to move to proceed to the Social Security lockbox legislation with a cloture vote to occur on that legislation on Thursday. 
   I thank my colleagues for their attention. 
   I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990526</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I have listened carefully to the current debate on the pending amendment which authorizes a round of military base closings commencing in 2001. At this time I do not support a further round of base closings. Therefore, I oppose this amendment for the following reasons. 
   I have repeatedly asked the Department of Defense, military bases in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and the Kentucky Department of Military Affairs for information and proof that the past rounds of base closings have produced any savings to the Department of Defense or the U.S. taxpayer. After repeatedly asking for this information to prove this point, it has not been provided to me. Therefore, I need to see proof in savings and these savings need to be in ``real'' terms and without any accounting gimmicks and projected budgetary outcomes based on guesswork.  
   Many criticize the Department of Defense's current accounting measures. They say these accounting measures are not soundly based and that these measures are used in decisions which result in an unjust imbalance between our military base infrastructure and the rest of the military. Just because the Department of Defense is reduced in certain areas by a certain percentage, doesn't mean that our military base infrastructure should be cut at the same percentage level. The Department of Defense needs to measure any downsizing of our military base infrastructure in a formulaic way rather that just an across the board cut done blindly and foolishly. 
   Also, I am not convinced that if savings were found from past base closings, that the bases in Kentucky, Ft. Knox and Ft. Campbell, would be protected and strengthened. I have recently been told by the U.S. Army that these bases would not be harmed and that they would benefit from any future rounds of closings. The U.S. Army talked of these bases as being leading posts in their branches. However, I have not seen any new strengths added to these bases from past closings and I have not been told of any specific missions which would be added to those bases in Kentucky. I need reassurance from the U.S. Army that these posts will be protected by seeing the future plans for these posts and the specific missions which would be added to them. 
   Furthermore, I am not convinced that our military in its current state can do more with less. We are in a tangled mission in Yugoslavia, we have major troop deployments around the Korean peninsula and around Iraq, and we have U.S. troops scattered amongst some 40 other spots elsewhere in the world. Our deployments have increased dramatically over the past decade. If this trend of increased deployments continues, I cannot see the rationality of downsizing our military base structure in the midst of this pattern which seems to have no end. 
   In conclusion, I have not seen savings from past military base closings. Even if I was convinced there were savings, I am not convinced that the military bases and the soldiers that serve and work at those bases in Kentucky would be protected. I am concerned about minimizing our base structure while our soldiers and military do more with less. Also, past base closings have been politicized at the Presidential level and I fear the process may continue down that path again. 
   Because of these reasons, I oppose this amendment which authorizes another round of base closings. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990505</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise today in support of S. 900, which will modernize our financial services laws. 
   If our financial industries are going to be able to compete in the world market in the next century, we must modernize our depression-era banking laws. 
   The next century is almost here. We all talk about a Y2K problem. What about the antique banking law problem? Entering the new century with antiquated banking laws would be foolhardy. We have to reform our financial service system. 
   Most of the financial services and bank laws that are on the books today are based on the Glass-Steagall Act, legislation passed in 1935, over 60 years ago! 
   The world has changed a great deal since then, and it is going to change further and faster as we move into the 21st century. We need to update our outdated laws to account for this change and to give flexibility to American companies. 
   At the same time, we must make sure that any bill we pass treats all the segments of the financial industry fairly, and that there is a level playing field for all of the groups involved. 
   If history is any indication, any new law we pass will be with us for a long time, so we had better get it right. 
   We've been working to get it right for a long time. Eleven years ago, when I was a member of the House Banking Committee, we were able to report a financial services modernization bill to the floor. 
   Last year the House passed a bill and the Senate was able to pass a bill out of committee. 
   As a Member of the House last year, I supported the bill that passed by one vote in the House. It wasn't perfect. There were things I would have liked to change. 
   But I believed at the time that we couldn't allow the search for perfection to block real progress. 
   That's even more true this year. 
   We can talk about banking reform--and negotiate issues--for another twelve years--and we won't ever be able to make everyone totally happy. 
   There are too many competing interests and too much complexity is involved in the rapidly changing financial services industry for us ever to find a regulatory framework that will completely satisfy all of the players involved. 
   It's not going to happen. 
   At some point, we just have to do the best we can and move ahead. I'm convinced we have reached that point now--we should pass this bill. 
   Fortunately, the bill our committee approved this year is even better than the bills we considered last year. Chairman GRAMM and his staff did a good job--the committee did a good job. 
   It is time to move ahead. 
   We should pass a clean bill quickly and send a message to the other body that we are serious about financial services reform. 
   This bill has many important provisions. And I'm not going to talk about them all, but I would like to mention one issue in particular. 
   The one issue my bankers bring up every time they come to visit is Community Reinvestment Act or CRA reform. 
   I am very pleased the chairman has agreed to put CRA provisions in the bill and that we were able to pass Senator SHELBY's amendment in committee that will provide CRA relief, especially to small banks in my State and across the Nation. 
   Senator SHELBY's amendment will exempt 154 small banks in Kentucky from Federal CRA burdens. 
   These banks have always invested in the community. That is where their business is. A bank in Clinton, Kentucky does not lend in Louisville or Lexington, it lends in Clinton. 
   I have a letter from Robert Black, president and CEO of the Clinton Bank. Mr. Black says: ``We were using good CRA practices long before the burdensome regulation was passed. This regulation is now requiring much of our time preparing documentation and placing pins in a map just to prove that we made loans in every community.'' 
   I should mention that Clinton, Kentucky was not named after Bill Clinton. 
   I would also like to read a passage from a letter from E.L. Williams, president of the Citizens Deposit Bank of Arlington, in Arlington Kentucky. 
   Mr. Williams states: ``In our opinion, the time and money afforded to CRA compliance in small banks could be used to a much greater advantage, such as lending and assisting the low to moderate income population for which the CRA was originally implemented.'' 
   These small banks will lend in their own communities with or without CRA. They don't need Federal regulators breathing down their necks to make sure they are doing what they would be doing anyway. 
   I would personally like to see even greater reform of CRA--across the board--but our small banks really need and deserve relief and this bill provides it. 
   In closing, Mr. President, I repeat that this bill is not perfect. But it is a dramatic improvement over the antique financial laws we are operating under now and it is a dramatic improvement over the Sarbanes substitute. 
   We must enter the 21st century ready to compete and this bill will make that possible. 
   It is a good bill--I urge my colleagues to support it. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990503</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in opposition to Senate Joint Resolution 20 for a number of reasons, and in favor of tabling. 
   First of all, we have no national security interest to intervene in this civil war. I have not heard one compelling reason from President Clinton, the Pentagon, the Secretary of State, my colleagues, or anyone else as to why America needs to send her troops halfway around the globe and into the middle of another nation's civil war. 
   I am dismayed to see on television every night the images of refugees fleeing their destroyed homes and villages, and everybody should be disheartened by this horrific tragedy. But if there should be any immediate intervention into this civil war, let it come directly from those European neighbors where this tragedy is occurring. This is happening in Europe's backyard, and it has been happening there for century upon century. 
   We need to force Europe to deal with this and let them take the lead. Are we going to intervene wherever we see these images and similar ones on our television every night? If so, then America will be everywhere at all times and our military will be spread throughout the corners of the world, into different regional, civil, ethnic, and tribal conflicts, and our military will be stretched to the point of breaking. 
   Second, by using whatever force necessary by the United States in this region, we will be pulling our troops and weapons out of regions where we truly have an interest. 
   Are we ready to stop the no-fly zone around Iraq and send our troops into a ground war in Kosovo? This could entice Saddam Hussein to invade other Middle Eastern countries, much like he did Kuwait. Are we ready to dive into a war in Kosovo by pulling our military forces out and away from our presence on the border of North Korea? 
   Iraq and North Korea are the two most dangerous hot spots in the world. Can we justify scaling back our efforts in those two regions to play referee in a civil war in Kosovo? 
   Are we prepared to let Saddam Hussein out of the cage and pull away from North Korea, which has a nuclear missile capability? These two areas hold our national security interests. I don't believe Kosovo is even close by comparison. 
   Third, because of Kosovo, our military readiness is suffering. The Clinton administration believes our military is ready for a variety of missions. Yet, President Clinton has required more of our soldiers with less money and support. 
   In the past 10 years, the national defense budget has been cut by approximately $120 billion. The U.S. military force structure has been reduced by more than 30 percent. The Department of Defense operations and maintenance accounts have been reduced by 40 percent. 
   The Department of Defense procurement funding has declined by more than 50 percent. Operational commitments for the U.S. military have increased fourfold. 
   The Army has reduced its ranks by over 630,000 soldiers and civilians, closed over 700 installations at home and overseas, and cut 10 divisions from its force structure. 
   The Army has reduced its presence in Europe from 215,000 to 65,000 personnel. 
   The Army has averaged 14 major deployments every four years, increased significantly from the cold war trend of one deployment every four years. 
   The Air Force has been downsized by nearly 40 percent, while at the same time experiencing a fourfold increase in operational commitments. 
   And I could go on and on as to how we are decreasing the power and force of our military while asking them to do more and more. 
   And just last week the President called up 33,000 reservists to answer his call to Kosovo. 
   Why? It is most likely because recruitment is at the lowest it has ever been and because our soldiers are leaving the Armed Forces in droves. 
   Here are a couple quotes I found that are very timely to this debate and even more disturbing.  
   The high level of operations over the past several years is beginning to wear on both our people and our systems and is stressing our readiness.  
   That was what Air Force Vice Chief of Staff, General Ralph Eberhart said in the Air Force Times. 
   Here's another quote. This is from General Gordon Sullivan, former Army Chief of Staff.  
   With our national budget now allocating only 3 percent of the gross domestic product to defense, I see our future national security in peril.  
   And finally a quote from the chief sponsor of this Senate joint resolution who is also a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
   He said in 1998 in the July issue of Defense Daily, that he currently sees, and I quote, ``very serious echoes of the 1970s when we had a hollow army.'' 
   He said, ``I think that we have failed to modernize the force.'' 
   And he adds, ``We're losing qualified men and women. We've having to lower our recruiting standards.'' 
   Mr. President, with this information, how can we vote and pass a resolution knowing that our military is not ready to carry out a mission which authorizes President Clinton to use all force necessary to accomplish United States and NATO objectives in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? 
   And how can we expect our military to fully enter into this war without being told what their mission is, how long they will be deployed there, and what their exit strategy is. 
   The military does not know, the American people do not know, the Congress does not know, and I doubt President Clinton knows what those answers are that many of my colleagues in Congress have been asking for months. 
   Will there be more troops deployed if our goals and mission are not met? 
   What are the rules of engagement? 
   How will this mission be paid for and will valuable dollars be pulled from military readiness accounts to pay for this deployment? 
   What, if any, is our exit strategy? 
   We need to reject this resolution for the sake of our military and for the sake of the stature of the United States in the world. 
   We have no national security interests to throw our soldiers into a war in Kosovo. 
   And we have had no answers from this administration who would dare throw our country into a war as to why this is a national security interest to the United States. 
   If rejecting this resolution undermines NATO, then so be it and let it undermine NATO. 
   This administration has already warped NATO by turning it into an offensive force instead of its original nature of being a defensive force against Soviet threats. 
   Let us not throw our sons and daughters into war to preserve an international organization. 
   Please let us reject this resolution, and if necessary table it tomorrow. 
   Thank you. I thank the President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990427</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise in support of the resolution and to express my deepest, heartfelt sympathy for the families of the victims of Columbine High School shootings. 
   At a time like this, words seem to lose their meaning, and there is little that we can say to adequately express our regret and sorrow. There is no way to explain the senseless violence that claimed the lives of the students and teacher in Littleton, and we struggle to understand and explain the inexplicable. 
   Schools are supposed to be safe havens where teenagers--children--are supposed to grow and learn, not plot to murder their peers. What happened in Colorado simply defies explanation or comprehension. During trying times like this, we must fall back on our faith. Our faith in God, and family, and community. Our beliefs have been shaken, and we must rely on each other and trust that the Lord will help see us through the confusing darkness that has descended on our Nation after this terrible catastrophe. 
   A similar tragedy occurred at a high school in Paducah less than a year and a half ago. Unfortunately, this is an experience that we in Kentucky have been through and we grieve with our friends in Colorado. The children of Colorado and their families will continue to be in our thoughts and prayers. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990426</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, a tragedy occurred in my home state of Kentucky on the morning of April 22nd. A UH-60L Black Hawk helicopter crashed at Ft. Campbell during a training mission. Seven of the United States Army's 101st Airborne Division's finest soldiers died in that crash. 
   I would ask us all to remember Sergeant Anthony Wade Brown, Specialist Earl Condary Eoff, Sergeant Robert Gerald Millward, Sergeant James Robert Murphy, Jr., Chief Warrant Officer Two Aaron King Power, Specialist Fury John Rice, and Sergeant Julius Raymond Wilkes, Jr. We must also keep their fellow soldiers, friends, and especially their families in our prayers during this difficult time of mourning. 
   These seven soldiers took an oath when they joined the military to defend this great nation. We must not take for granted their service and their commitment to us. We should take an oath now that they will remain in our hearts forever and that we will never forget them. 
   God bless these men.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990422</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise to make a few remarks concerning the  Social Security lockbox legislation. Last year, as chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee in the House of Representatives, I introduced legislation which would have reserved 100 percent of the anticipated budget surpluses for Social Security. 
   When that bill was marked up in committee, it was changed to 90 percent. Subsequently, that bill was passed by the full House of Representatives but it was attacked viciously by the President and our colleagues on the other side of the aisle because it did not protect 100 percent of the Social Security surplus. 
   The bill we are considering now in the Senate would do exactly what I originally set out to do in 1998. It would do exactly what the President promised to do in 1998. It locks up the Social Security surpluses to protect them and to insure those surpluses are not used for other programs, tax cuts, or additional spending. It locks up 100 percent of the Social Security surpluses--not 62 percent--not 90 percent--but 100 percent. It requires that those surpluses--and we are talking about a lot of money, as much as $1.8 trillion over the next 10 years--are not recycled out as debt and spent on other Government programs as we have done in the past. 
   This is a good bill. It is a good concept. It pays down the debt and it protects Social Security. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and to vote for the motion to invoke cloture. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990419</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-19990419</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Madam President, I ask for the yeas and nays. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, the pending amendment, No. 157, offered by the Senator from Pennsylvania, Senator SPECTER, proposes to create a new entitlement for the NIH funded with increased taxes. This language is not germane to the budget resolution before us; therefore, I raise a point of order under section 305(b)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990325</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I raise a point of order against the pending amendment, No. 232, offered by Senator SNOWE. The language is not germane to the budget resolution before us.  
   Therefore, I raise the point of order under section 305(b)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. I am more than happy to yield. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Not very long, Mr. President. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-3-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. No. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-4-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, this resolution which is about to come before the Senate will be something we should have voted on maybe 2 weeks ago. Unfortunately, we are voting on it under an extreme timeframe, and I think that is unfortunate for all of us. 
   If there are negotiations that have really gone on, it has been one-sided. The Serbs have never sat down and really negotiated in good faith with anyone. Only because they were asked to show up at the table, they showed up for a short time and left immediately. Now the debate has shifted and is not about peacekeeping, not about deploying peacekeepers anymore; it is about going to war with a foreign government. NATO, the United Nations, have never gone to war in a civil war situation. That is what we are about to do, and we have been consulted to the point of being told exactly what the President intends to do, whether or not--whether or not--we agree or disagree. 
   In 1991, President Bush came to the House and to the Senate and asked for specific resolutions to go to war to defend Kuwait against Iraqi invasion. It was a major vote to go to war in the House. It was a very narrow vote in the Senate. I think by five votes they voted to support President Bush. 
   I read on the Internet today what was supposed to be a private briefing that we all had at lunch by the Secretary of Defense and by the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. That private personal briefing was totally on the Internet this afternoon. 
   Let me tell my colleagues what it said so everybody in the United States can understand exactly what is going to happen. There will be two different types of airstrikes. There will be a preliminary airstrike--and this is on the Internet; all you have to do is look it up--two kinds of airstrikes to force Belgrade into accepting NATO ground troops. 
   The first strike would be a demonstration strike by air- and sea-launched cruise missiles to soften up Milosevic to know that we are really serious about this. Then there would be a pause to give the Serbian leadership a chance to realize that we are serious. If the Serbs do not comply, there would be a second wave of strikes that would be targeted to air defense and missile installations by the same type of military hardware. In fact, 55 percent, or a little less, of all of the airstrikes done will be 70 percent by U.S. hardware and, if we use aircraft, 54 percent of it exactly will be by U.S. aircraft. 
   This is in the middle of Europe. This is not at our borders in Mexico or Canada. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-5-19990323</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. The second wave would be to take down the missile defenses. 
   Let me give you a little background. In 1991, we had a briefing in the House of Representatives by Dick Cheney, who was Secretary of Defense, and by Colin Powell, who was the head of the Joint Chiefs. They both said the same thing: The worst thing we can do is to send ground troops into Bosnia and Kosovo or any of that area, because of the logistics, because of the terrain, because of the weather. One of the things that they also said was that airstrikes would be very questionable. The reason they were going to be questionable was that the sophistication of the missile defenses and of the air defenses of the Serbs was much better than many other places. The terrain is much more difficult. 
   What we are doing is wrong. What the President asked us to do at the 11th hour is wrong. We should not be going into an independent nation's civil war and imposing our will, no matter what the situation is. 
   Now, the Senator from Oklahoma brought up many other places we could be intervening that we could save more lives--many places in Africa. If we expend the same amount of dollars like we are going to expend in Kosovo, we could save many more lives. This attack is premeditated and the Congress is an afterthought. They want us to agree to it after they have already decided to go. 
   This is a great institution, the Senate. I have come to love it in a very short time. These debates should be before the fact, not after the administration has already made up their mind to bomb. The same is true about sending ground troops. 
   I want to ask President Clinton these questions: What vital American security interests are at stake? What is the long-term strategy for the region? Not only do we bomb one wave and a second wave, and a third request is to send in 4,000 additional men and women from the United States in ground troops. What is the long-term strategy for the region? How do we get in and how do we get out? How long will the troops be deployed? What is their mission? 
   What is the mission they are supposed to accomplish? 
   Will we be forced to deploy more ground troops if the 4,000 are not sufficient?  
   Will foreign commanders be commanding our troops under NATO? 
   What are the rules of engagement? 
   How will the mission be paid for? 
   What valuable dollars will be taken away from military readiness accounts to pay for this? 
   What is our exit strategy? 
   President Clinton, you have not answered these questions. You have not come before the Congress of the United States and asked for our help. I think it is essential that you do so before you send one American into harm's way when you have not proven the need to do it. 
   I yield the floor. 
   Mr. WARNER addressed the Chair. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-2-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Thank you. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990319</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. In 1995, when I served in the House of Representatives, I and a large bipartisan majority supported a resolution which called for President Clinton to obtain congressional authorization before deploying troops to Bosnia. That resolution passed by a vote of 315 yeas to 103 nays. 
   Yet, despite that vote, President Clinton went ahead with a large-scale and long-term deployment of tens of thousands of troops to Bosnia without congressional authorization or any meaningful debate. 
   Back then, President Clinton spoke to us and promised us all that we would have a well-defined mission with a clear exit strategy. But even today there are no details on getting our troops out of Bosnia. We are still there and President Clinton has spent approximately $12 billion on that mission without ever including Bosnia funds in his budget. 
   As a result, he is draining crucial defense resources from other critical areas and further putting our soldiers in harm's way. We still have almost 7,000 troops in Bosnia and we are all unsure of what their exact mission really is and when, if ever, they can come home to their families. So much for a clearly defined mission and exit strategy. 
   But now, all I can say is, ``deja vu'' and ``here we go again.'' 
   Right now, American troops are deployed all over the globe in over 30 nations on missions of questionable value and unclear rules of engagement. And now, President Clinton is about to scatter roughly 4,000 more troops to intervene in Kosovo under a NATO mission to enforce a peace agreement. But there is no peace agreement to enforce because one does not exist. 
   The Serbs and the Albanians have been fighting in this southern region of Serbia for centuries. So is it any surprise that earlier this week in France, the Serbs would not accept the Kosovo peace plan that their rival ethnic Albanians have agreed to sign? 
   I do not believe that any amount of American involvement is going to end these ethnic conflicts that have raged for centuries. We have tried to resolve this problem for three years and have gotten nowhere. I do not understand why we think we can end this civil war by sending 4,000 additional troops. 
   President Clinton has not given us any answers as to why sending these troops to Kosovo is so vital. President Clinton can tell us any time. But where is he? He has the bully pulpit. 
   I do not believe it is in our national security interest to get involved once again in another so-called peacekeeping mission in this region. In a few years, Kosovo will take its place in history books, along with Bosnia, Haiti and Somalia, as an example of a foreign policy that has no principled framework.  
   I want to hear from President Clinton as to why this region is of a national security interest to the United States and why he should risk the lives of our young troops by sending them to Kosovo. 
   And where is the European community in all of this? It seems as though we are risking the lives of our soldiers to clean up Europe's backyard. If anyone should take the lead on this intervention, it should definitely be from a European nation. This is Europe's problem, if anyone's, and not ours. Kosovo is not in our backyard. 
   An American soldier's job is to protect America's interests by destroying America's enemies on the battlefield. It is an insult to ask an American soldier to serve as a policeman under the umbrella of some international organization instead of the American flag. 
   There are many questions that President Clinton and his administration need to answer, and we are being left in the dark once again. 
   President Clinton, take these questions seriously. 
   When and how many troops are we deploying and how long will they be there? 
   What is their mission? 
   Will there be more troops deployed if our goals and missions are not met? 
   Will foreign commanders be commanding our troops under this NATO force? 
   What are the rules of engagement? 
   How will this mission be paid for, and will valuable dollars be pulled away from military readiness accounts to pay for this deployment? 
   What, if any, is our exit strategy? 
   As you have heard, President Clinton, I have many questions and I am not alone. You gave us no details and answers with regard to the Bosnia mission, and I fear we, as well, will be given very little, if any, details regarding our involvement in Kosovo. 
   But quite frankly, not getting answers from President Clinton does not surprise me. 
   I do not believe we have a compelling national interest to send troops to Kosovo. If they are sent, we all deserve answers from President Clinton before our troops are sent into another mess for years to come. 
   Our men and women in uniform are ready and willing to defend the interests of this great Nation, but not the interests of other nations. We cannot undermine the oaths they take when they are sworn into the military to serve this great Nation. 
   President Clinton, do your job, and let us know what is happening with Kosovo. 
   God bless our troops. 
   Mr. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990315</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I rise today to make my maiden speech on the floor of the Senate. It is about a subject near and dear to me, protecting and strengthening Social Security for this generation and the next. 
   In the other body, I served on the Social Security Subcommittee for 8 years. Over the last 4 years, I had the privilege of being the chairman. It was the most satisfying task I have had since coming to the Congress. In the subcommittee, we held numerous hearings over the past several years on Social Security reform and how to tackle the looming problem that will be facing us in the next century. 
   I have already introduced my own personal Social Security reform bill. It is called The Social Security for the 21st Century Act. Basically, Social Security reform is a two-sided coin. The first side of the coin is that we must guarantee the benefits that have been promised our older workers, workers who have paid into the program for years. We must assure them that their investment is safe and their benefits will always be there when they are needed. 
   The second side of the coin is that we have to find a way to give younger workers a reason to believe in the program, a reason to believe that they will get a reasonable rate of return on the money they invest in Social Security taxes throughout their working careers. 
   My bill focuses primarily on the second side of the coin. It gives taxpayers a one-time, voluntary option to set aside a small portion of their income that they have to pay into FICA taxes, and to invest this money in their own retirement security account. 
   The Social Security for the 21st Century Act enables them to begin by investing just 2.5 percent of their FICA taxes each year, and slowly increasing this amount by 2.5 percent annually over 20 years until eventually taxpayers can invest one-half of all of their FICA taxes in their own personal retirement security account. In return for choosing to set up a retirement security account, a taxpayer would agree to a 50-percent reduction in Social Security benefits. 
   The most important point about my bill is that it is voluntary, not mandatory. It gives people a choice, and it does not force them to do anything they do not want to do. If they are satisfied with what they have now, they can keep their benefits simply by doing nothing. But, if taxpayer-investors elect to set up a retirement security account, they would be able to manage their investment just like the Government workers do today in the successful Federal employee Thrift Savings Plan. Investors would have the additional choice to stop investing, but they could not do it again later on. They couldn't choose to come back. 
   They would have at least five options for investing their money. They could elect to put their money into a number of investments: stocks, fixed income, Government securities--whatever best meets their needs. There would be an annual open season so they could adjust their portfolios. In short, this would give Americans more control over their futures, and enable them to harness the power of markets and the miracle of compound interest. 
   Now, I know that many Americans, especially older taxpayers, might not want to make any changes at all to Social Security. We should respect that. They have been promised their benefits for years and they have relied on that in good faith. That is the second side of the coin. To protect these folks, and our most vulnerable citizens, my legislation guarantees the Social Security safety net. It does not raise the retirement age, it does not cut benefits, and it does not cut COLAs. 
   But I think that many workers, if given a choice, would opt to set aside some of their money and invest it in a retirement security account. Based on our experience with the Thrift Savings Plan, I think it would be a significant step towards stronger financial security for all Americans. 
   The TSP has been a great success for Federal workers. Over the past 10 years, the three investment choices available to workers in the TSP have average annual rates of return of 17.5 percent, 8.5 percent, and 7.6 percent. 
   That means the worst performing of these three funds, the G fund, which invests strictly in Government securities, has returned over 7 percent annually to investors. That compares very, very well to the 2 to 3 percent annual return that most Americans get for  their money that they pay into Social Security. Compounded over decades, the differences in the rates of return are staggering. 
   Under my bill, taxpayers will own their own retirement secured accounts, and they, not the Federal Government, can control how their money is invested. My legislation follows the scrupulous conflict of interest rules that have worked well for the TSP to make sure that Government cannot vote shares of stock or manipulate markets. Best of all, withdrawals from this retirement secured account will be tax free, because we should not need to penalize Americans who successfully plan for their retirement. 
   Congress has wisely moved in recent years to help retirees keep more of their own money. Social Security reform must continue that trend. I believe Social Security reform must be voluntary. It should give taxpayers more, not fewer, investment choices, and it must protect the most vulnerable Americans who are counting on these benefits. It is important to bring as many ideas to the table as possible as part of a national dialogue about Social Security reform. These are the principles I have tried to follow in writing this bill, and I will work with anyone on my legislation and on any other proposals to improve the Social Security system. 
   Mr. President, we have a golden window of opportunity now to reform Social Security. Our economy is the strongest it has been in decades. We have a budget surplus to give us some flexibility in making difficult decisions. Now we have to find the political will. It is a challenge we must meet. 
   I yield the floor. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990303</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
    Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, today I signed on as a cosponsor of S. 434, Senator BREAUX's proposal to equalize the tax treatment for domestic distilleries compared to their foreign competitors. 
   This is a good bill, and I hope it passes Congress. It would help cut unnecessary taxes for our domestic distilleries, and eliminate a competitive advantage that our current tax rules give to foreign distilleries. I will certainly do what I can to help pass Senator BREAUX's bill. 
   Mr. President, I am submitting this statement for the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD to make one thing perfectly clear. In supporting this bill, I want the Administration, and officials at the Treasury Department and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to understand that by doing so I reject the connection that some have tried to make between the All in bond issue and Section 5010 of the tax code, the wine and flavors tax credit. I know that the suggestion has been made that any revenue loss to the U.S. Treasury caused by changes to the All in Bond rules be offset by repealing Section 5010. I reject that notion because there is no logical link between the two issues; the ``connection'' is a bureaucratic fiction. 
   Some who served with me on the conference committee that helped write the tax provisions in the 1995 Balanced Budget Act will probably remember my successful efforts to eliminate a provision in the Senate bill that would have repealed Section 5010. My position on this matter has not changed, and it is one issue on which I continue to keep a close eye because of its importance to Kentucky.  
</TEXT>
</DOC>

<DOC>
<DOCNO>106-bunning-ky-1-19990212</DOCNO>
<TEXT>
   Mr. BUNNING. This is my first speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate. I had hoped my opening speech would be about Social Security. This year, in my opinion, we have a golden window of opportunity to reform and strengthen this vital program and I had hoped to use my first comments on the Senate floor to help open the debate on real Social Security reform. 
   Unfortunately, it didn't turn out that way. Of necessity, my opening speech in this body is about the Articles of Impeachment against President Clinton. It was not my choice! 
   In fact, none of us have much choice in this matter. Here in the U.S. Senate, we have been charged with the responsibility of looking at the facts as presented by the managers from the House of Representatives. Each of us took an oath to do impartial justice. 
   And the Constitution doesn't give us much wiggle room when it comes to choices. The Framers were pretty explicit about out options. If we determine that the President is guilty of the charges as outlined in the two Articles  of Impeachment, the penalty is removal from office. We have no other choice. 
   Because we are all political animals, I think it is natural that the legitimacy of this process and the outcome of this debate will be clouded to some degree by the perception that it is a partisan exercise. 
   Many of the President's defenders and many of our friends in the media, in fact, have insisted all along that the whole process has been driven by partisan Republicans who are intent to removing a Democrat President they do not like from office. 
   The difficulty you run into when you start throwing around the term ``partisan'' politics is that is seldom a one-way street. 
   Is it any more ``partisan'' to blindly support the impeachment of a President of the other party than it is to blindly support a President of your own regardless of the facts? Of course not. Just as each of us, in keeping with our oath to do impartial justice, must strive to avoid a partisan, knee-jerk solution to the process, we must also not let ourselves be deterred from doing what we feel is right simply to avoid charges of partisanship. 
   So, hiding behind the charge that the process has been tainted by political partisanship gives us no relief from our responsibility to look at the facts nor does it expand our choices. 
   So, it is the facts that matter. And each of us must weigh them individually. We are not taking about public opinion polls. They should have no bearing on the case at this point. It is a question of facts pure and simple. 
   Each of us must weigh those facts individually. We might reach different conclusions. But if I determine that the president is guilty, and if you determine that the president is guilty, based on those facts we don't have any options. We must vote to convict and to remove the President from office. 
   I am personally convinced that the President is guilty under both of the Articles of Impeachment presented to us by the House Managers. 
   The managers from the House have presented a strong case that President Clinton committed perjury. The circumstantial and supporting evidence is overwhelming that Bill Clinton did lie under oath to the grand jury when he testified about his attorney's use of a false affidavit at his deposition. He lied under oath to the grand jury when he testified about the nature of his relationship with Miss Lewinsky. He lied under oath about what he told his aides about his relationship with Miss Lewinksky. He lied under oath to the grand jury when he testified about the nature of his relationship with Miss Lewinsky. He lied under oath about what he told his aides about his relationship with Miss Lewinsky. He lied under oath to the grand jury about his conversations with Betty Currie. 
   That is perjury. That is a felony. We cannot uphold our reverence for the rule of law and ignore it. 
   The circumstantial and supporting evidence is also overwhelming that the President did willfully obstruct justice when he encouraged Miss Lewinsky to file a affidavit in the Jones case; when he coached Betty Currie on how to respond to questions about his relationship with Miss Lewinsky. 
   When he lied to aides whom he knew would be called as a grand jury witnesses, when he promoted a 
   job search for Miss Lewinsky, and when he encouraged Miss Lewinsky to return the gifts he had given her, he was attempting to obstruct justice. 
   After listening to the facts and the evidence, and after listening to the President's defense team try to refute the charges, I have determined that he is guilty as charged. 
   I have tried to the best of my ability to reach this determination impartially without being biased by my political affiliation. Have I been successful? I believe so. 
   I am encouraged in the belief that I have reached the proper conclusion for the proper reasons by the harsh wording of the resolution being circulated by some of the defenders of the President, senators who oppose impeachment but support a censure resolution. 
   The most recent version of a censure resolution that I have seen admits that the President engaged in shameless, reckless and indefensible conduct. It goes on to say that the President of the United States deliberately misled and deceived the American people and officials of the United States government. 
   It also says that the President gave false or misleading testimony, and impeded discovery of evidence in judicial proceedings and that, as a result, he deserves censure. 
   These are the people who are opposed to the Articles of Impeachment. 
   The Constitution doesn't really give us that kind of choice. If the President is guilty of these charges, he must be convicted and he must be removed from office. Censure is not an option. 
   I would rather be speaking about Social Security but I wasn't given a choice in the matter. 
   I would prefer not to vote to convict any President of Articles of Impeachment. But I don't have a choice in that matter either. 
   If he is guilty, he must be convicted. And I believe he is guilty as charged. 
   There is one central, elemental ingredient that is necessary to the success of our ability, as a nation, to govern ourselves. That is trust. 
   Before a President takes office, he swears a solemn oath, to ``preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.'' 
   We accept his word on that. 
   When the Vice President, United States Senators and members of the House of Representatives take office, they are required to take an oath ``to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic.'' 
   We trust that they will live up to that oath. 
   We administer these oaths and we accept them as binding because government, at least in this nation, is, above all else, a matter of trust. Trust is the glue that holds it all together. If that trust is destroyed or tarnished, it seriously undermines the basic foundations of our government. 
   The President's defenders try to excuse him by saying that if he did lie under oath and obstruct justice, he did it to protect himself and his family from personal embarrassment about sexual indiscretions, and somehow this makes the lies all right. 
   It doesn't. When he lied and when he tried to hide his lies from the grand jury, he broke trust with the nation's justice system. He broke faith with the American people. 
   Not only did he break the law, he also violated the sacred trust of the office of the President. And in so doing, he violated his oath of office. 
   And that raises the two Articles of Impeachment to a level that definitely justifies his removal from office. 
   It is a matter of trust. And it leaves us no choice but to vote for conviction. 
</TEXT>
</DOC>

